tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0002par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0001par0008	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0002par0009	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take the floor according to the Civil Code 73. Civil Charter 73 says: "The draft laws drafted by the government are signed by all ministers and shall be submitted to the Parliamentary Presidency with its grounds. " In the last joke, a member of parliament will take the oath at the beginning of the session if he wants to appeal to the request. The Prime Minister's office has submitted a bill dated 3/3/2015, a bill for the appointment of 47,000 of our fellow teachers to Parliament. I'd like to add to that: Tali has told the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as commissions.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0001par0010	Now, Mr. Akar, I'll give you your word after I give you the off-the-tops, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0002par0011	Yes, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0001par0012	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu, who asked for a statement about documents submitted by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız on 5 February 2015 by the group's MPs at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. You'll remember, about a month ago, on February 5th, there was an interview here with a gene that had my signature first, regarding Mr. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. My argument was simply that it extends ten and thirteen years to 2 companies, without contract and without the board's decision, against the law. Within ten years, they were given an advantage -- from 3 million tons per year, up to 7 million tons -- including 30 million tons and 39 million tons, and the monetary value was at least $4 billion -- that's what I claimed, and I brought it up. Mr. Secretary didn't answer them that day enough, but Mr. Group sent some papers to the Vice Presidents to give them documents. I knew what they were, and I answered that day. But in the end, we blame a minister of the republic on corruption charges. I've done my work again in the face of a claim like this, and I've come to you after the gene, and I'd like to enlighten you about them. Mr. Secretary has submitted close to 10 of the documents. Look, the first, most important is the document he presented as 1 and 2. He's talking about the board's decision. My case took place on October 8, 2013, a corruption dated October 8, 2013; see, a 2007 ruling by the Minister as a decision, which has nothing to do with it, and the content of the board's decision is irrelevant; it has nothing to do with decoupage work, so it has nothing to do with redevans and service acquisition agreement, and it has nothing to do with that. Number 3 is also related to a different issue, a report from the chairman of the review board, dated 2005. I claim the incident was in 2013, and he's bringing me the 2005 review board report. The other is a report from the additional review board, which is number four, which is also dated 2006, which has nothing to do with my claims. There is no number 5, which is number six, which is reporting an investigation by the state's attorney's office to the Turkish Coal Company General Directorate, which is 2012, which has nothing to do with my claims, which is a completely different matter. It's the same thing that he said. The Sincan criminal court has been contested, and the verdict has nothing to do with my claims again. There's a similar situation in number 8, which states that the Public Contractor's decision is not subject to a reduction of 5 contracts per 10,000, and I've already made no such claim, and it has nothing to do with it. In addition, a legal opinion has been taken from Ankara University, where history is 2005, not related to 2013, is a completely different matter. Another is the Court report. And this report, you know, is based on the documents, and my location has not been examined here. I mean, there's no answer to what Mr. Secretary has to say about my allegations, my dear friends. He tried to put on a show in front of the public, the press and all of you by sending these documents to the group's deputy presidents, trying to make it look like he had a document. It's got nothing to do with it. I'm afraid there's a corrupt minister sitting on the Council of Ministers right now, dear friends. I did what I had to do with it. I spoke to him head-to-head, I told him about it, I informed the Chief Justice, I wrote him a nine-page letter, I gave him written questions. As I said, after all this work, I've come to your presence, I've brought it, I've been so sensitive, but unfortunately it's been proven to be very accurate, it's been proven to be a painful fact, and today such a minister sits in the ranks of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately. It's not your fault, it's the system's fault, but it needs to be done, and it needs to be on the record. That's the extent of the corruption... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll transfer it to God from now on. I did what needed to be done within the rules of law in democracy, as an MP, all of which I did, with great patience, with a lot of detail. I'll transfer it to God from now on. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0004par0037	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz, who wants to talk about the problems of Adana Province. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0005par0042	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems of our Adana province. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, a decision was issued last week in the Council of Ministers concerning the transfer of the subway line and the tram lines to the Ministry of Transport of the 3 AKP (AKP) capital city municipality. Now, here, in June 2011, before the general elections, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the period, looked the Adanans in the eye and promised to hand over the subway line to the Transport Ministry. He promised that we would not be like anyone else. He said, "We stand by what we promise." Four years later, however, the transfer of the Adana subway to the Transport Ministry was not even in question, but three AKP capital cities were transferred to the Transport Ministry. This partisan attitude is not right. This is to ignore Adana, to punish Adana. Again, valuable lawmakers, there is a promise made there: Adana-Karataş said the road will be finished at once. For ten years, there has been no progress, no distance. Again, construction of the Kozan-Mansurlu-Kayseri road has not been nailed in five years. Our villagers who lived there were in a state where they could not pass through the mud on their way to Kozan. Now, from here, I ask the Justice and Development Party: What do you want with this Adana? In your time of power, Adana became a truly punished city. As a result of no investments, 39 factories have been closed in ten years, nearly 40,000 workers have lost their jobs. And it came to pass, that Adana was punished, and his industry was slain. We're going through a process where no investment has come to Adana. Look, Adana is the most unemployed city in Turkey, with official figures of the state within 81 counties of unemployment. The subcontractorship is widespread in Adana. Our employees work for subcontractors, there's no way they can look at tomorrow safely. Go today, come tomorrow. Thousands of subcontractors working in position are in trouble. This needs to be resolved as soon as possible. When Adana was one of Turkey's most advanced cities, during your reign, all of the work was done, and it fell back to the last row. I say public investments again according to the official figures of the state -- when compared to the population, it's last to receive public investment. He took the 58th place in training. In health, he's down to 56. Adana, the third-largest, fourth-largest city of Turkey in the ranking of habitable cities, has fallen to the 50th in your reign. Adana is an agricultural town. Çukurova is a city that should have the most fertile lands in the world, and today our farmers are crying blood. The abnormal increase in input prices, in gas, in fertilizer, in input prices in the seed, caused our farmer to experience the most troubled days in his history. While Çukurova farmer is a symbol of wealth, today our farmers in Çukurova are either mortgaged to the Farm Bank or private banks. The narcissist didn't make 35 cents today, he didn't get what he made. The Egyptian manufacturer is in the same position, the cotton manufacturer is in the same position. When you look at credit card debt -- I'll give you a number, as far as the situation is concerned -- the number of people who can't pay the credit card or the credit card has reached 514 grand. Do you know what that means, dear lawmakers? In Adana, one out of four people are in debt. There must be an explanation for your punishing Adana in this way. Adana is one of Turkey's most important cities. The government arrived in 2007 -- look, President Abdullah Gul, then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- we're going to build an energy reserve in Ceyhan, 10 billion dollars in investments in this area, tens of thousands of people will have jobs. You held a glorious ceremony there with balloons and fireworks. How many years have passed from 2007 to 2015? It's been eight years. Did you put a nail in it? Oh, my God! So, I'm very clear that a ruling party, who looks so cruelly at Adana, who restricts Adana to this point of investment, with unemployment, with the troubles of our farmers, with our tradesmen, must make it clear. Why is that? I'm calling in the government from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Take care of Adana, and you must take care of Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0006par0062	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0007par0067	Mr. President, dear friends, Ardahan actually survived February 23, 1921, leaving his 94th year behind. Dear friends, Ardahan-Kars-Artvin, that area was occupied by Russia for forty-three years, but the Ardahan people did not tire, they did not tire, they fought, but while they fought... Ardahan was given a guarantee of war compensation to Russia; on March 3, 1878, Ardahan, Russia was given a war compensation. The Ottomans owed money back then, and they fought back. However, the people of Ardahan gathered from January 3rd to January 9th, and formed a national government, which merged with the government of the State for the independence of Ardahan. When Mustafa Kemal Ataturk went out to Samsun this time with his government in Kars, he went to Erzurum, under a can of the village of Maçivet, and said: "Pasham, I have one tin of gold, I give you the republic. See, Ardahans are so important in the establishment of the republic, but in the first period, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet, in the period of the region, we were exporting other animals to Russia, which were rich and poor, in the period of the republic, but unfortunately, in the period of the period of the republics, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet, in the period of the period of the region, we were exporting them to Russia, and in the period of Russia, they were poor, and they were poor. They shut down the courthouse, and shut down the military branch. They shut down the army at the lake, and shut down the ridicule. They shut down the forest business at the lake. These are all in the AKP era. They shut down the army in Damal. The Damals themselves did not build the military, not the government, they built the army, the army, with the pick-and-sphere, but they are now locked up there. And when the military left, of course, when the tradesman couldn't do business, people had to emigrate. Dear friends, because Posof is not a dentist, people go to Georgia to get their teeth done. So, that's your health reform. Shame on you, it's a shame for the AKP! If the person in Posof has a pain in his teeth, he goes to Georgia and gets his teeth done, it is a shame for the AKP. Tell me this, everyone's identified it. Therefore, everyone owes Ardahan a debt, my friends. Ardahan is the salvation of Ardahan....that Ardahan will definitely have to come to the airport. Why does the airport have to come? Because it will be a national and international airport, including Artvin, Oltu, Ahiska, Armenia. In this sense, Ardahan would have to build an airport with absolute certainty, and we would follow it. The salvation of Ardahan is the coming of the court, the coming of the army of the lake, the coming of the forest to the lake, the coming of the army of Damal. It is the construction of roads to Erzurum-Göle-Cle-Posofof, the building of the tunnel to Mount Ilgar. The salvation of Ardahan is the destruction of the gate of Madman Aktaş. Ardahan is the salvation of the Kars-Tiflis railway. The salvation of Ardahan is the construction of the Subway Tunnel, which is connected to the Black Sea. Dear friends, in this sense, the salvation of Ardahan (but most importantly) is that we employ our young ones. We can't give our young people jobs, young people can't get married. There are no old people left in the villages, no young people left. Girls don't go to young boys. The girls say: "Go to the city, and I will come. " She doesn't want to stay in the village. Therefore, we need to develop livestock and agriculture to develop people in Ardahan, in the east, in Kars. In all that region, we need to develop family business. In particular, in order for us to develop livestock in agriculture, we need to give the farmer a loan to promote mere animalism. The farmer's debt in the bank has to be wiped out and paid back in five years. Otherwise the farmer can't handle it, he's migrating, he's miserable. But most importantly, they're bringing outside men to Ardahan University. We want men from Ardahan University, from Kars, from Kars University, from Ardahan. Let there be the work of our young people. Our young people are out of work, they're miserable. People from outside work at Ardahan University, Kars University. Friend, that's not fair. I offer you all the blessings of the great House of Assembly, that this injustice is to be dealt with.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0008par0075	Thank you, Mr. Öpül.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0009par0076	Mr. Ensar, 1978 or 1878?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0007par0077	1878. 1878, sorry.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0008par0078	Members of parliament, according to Article 73 (73) of the Interior Charter of Turkey's Parliament and the Parliament's Parliamentary Parliamentary Party (HDP) Party (HDP) MP Haydar Akar (HDP) has made a request for an appeal to the transfer of a bill. Mr. Akar, I promise you from the bench, I'll give you five minutes, so speak up. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0010par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, lawmakers, it's not really an objection, but it's an issue that needs to be improved, and we have had a objection to further development and correction of this bill, especially since Turkey is a subject of gangrene during the AKP administrations. Because we say, what is this bill? It's a bill for the appointment of 47,000 teachers. As of today, the bill has been transferred by the Speaker of Parliament to the National Commission for Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as the main commission of the Plan and Budget Commission, so far, there is no problem. In addition, we say that this should be discussed at the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission in order to increase women's employment, to increase our number of women's teachers. Of course, the problems of teachers who are not appointed by your government should be dealt with quickly, not in such a long way, when they say they need to be interviewed. Again, this bill must be sent to the European Union's Compliance Commission, another commission, because there is a reason. In the European Union's study and statements, what must first be done with the physical conditions so that the education system in Turkey can truly be in European standards and can be transformed into a successful educational system? It also means that teachers should be in sufficient numbers, the European Union. This is 210,000, according to the European Union figures. I mean, Turkey needs 210,000 teachers. It says the European Union. He just needs 210,000 teachers, and, you know, our physical conditions are terrible, and that needs to be taken care of. So we also say that if a study can be done that will be given by the European Union's Integration Commission and will meet quickly, that will determine the real need of teachers in Turkey -- the HDP, the MP, AKP and CHP groups, which I don't think anyone will oppose -- as the National Education Minister Nabi Avcı has explained. And again, I have an offer on the law, 110,000 teachers; again, our Deputy Director Akif Hamzacebi, has an offer of law, 160,000 teachers and Nabi Avcı (Nabi Avcı) have to be appointed at least 110,000 teachers. If we can do that, we say we can raise our students to compete with those democratic developed countries. Well, we don't object to that, but we believe that things need to be dealt with as soon as possible. Yes, indeed, just before the AKP came to power in Turkey, was the President of today at the rally at Izmit, today's President, Prime Minister of the past, sir, a teacher who was not appointed? At the end of 12 years of AKP power, the wrong programs of the National Education and University education faculty have become a huge problem for the unsupervised teachers who have reached 370,000. We all know that when we send our children to colleges, our people who live on minimum wage spend a penny of what they've raised in their throats to help their children get a good education and save their future. They are trying to create material opportunities for their children to stay, eat, and continue their education, perhaps without providing them with money to eat. But in your time of power, we all know that the former Prime Minister, as the current President says, we don't have to find jobs for every college graduate. We all know that we have teachers who are out in the open at 370,000. Not only that, many of our children are depressed, unable to be appointed, perhaps teamaking, perhaps in markets, perhaps in different professional groups, most of them are waiting for me to get a job, but most of our brothers have committed suicide because they weren't appointed during the AKP administrations, and they've lost their lives. Now we say that we need a teacher who is 210,000 according to the criteria of the European Union, the teacher who is 110,000 according to Nabi Avcı. And while we have the opportunity to do so, you're saying that we've developed the big economy, you know, the big economy. You're saying, let's get that number up to 110,000 right away, and let's do at least a fraction of the problem that has been gangrene in Turkey. We're in, and if you bring it in, we'll get it out of commissions right away, and we'll make it legal. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0011par0092	Thank you, Mr. Akar. His views on the objection to this transfer will be evaluated by the presidency. Just so you know.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0012par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0011par0096	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0012par0097	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to point out something. In his speech, the speaker used the expression of the teacher who could not speak, using the expression. In general, this problem is preferred to the term unregistered teachers, which makes it seem as if there is a problem with unassigned teachers, graduates of education. They're fine with them; they're very successful, they're in college, they've graduated, they've become teachers, they've got their teaching degrees. So when this expression is used in this way, it creates a perception that there's something wrong with them. In fact, it is the expression of teachers who have not been appointed. This shows that the problem is not with our teachers, not our teachers who are not appointed; the problem is with the government that does not make their appointment.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0011par0099	Roger that, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0013par0100	Sir, can I make a correction? It's too short.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0011par0101	Very short, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0013par0102	Mr. Zozani says I'm speaking in the form of a teacher who doesn't have an appointment, but I'm saying it's a non-verbal. These are our friends who actually have their teaching profession, their certificates, our trained friends, and we don't need a training certificate for them. That's why they're unassigned teachers. Why isn't he assigned? Teachers not appointed by AKP governments to teach but not because they were not assigned. Not unauthorised, unassigned... It was misunderstood, and I wanted to correct it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0011par0104	Okay, thank you, Mr. Akar. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the members of lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0014par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the KPSS exams were held in June, but the government took it into April. Now, the rights of our young people, our children, to graduate in June, are being taken from them. I invite the government to be sensitive about this. Again, 3/3/2015, so as of yesterday, the tube increased 14.53 percent to 12.38 percent to auto gas. These raises bring the reflection of all products from needle to thread. Now, I'd like to address the government from here: really, in an environment where our citizen is overwhelmed by debt, in an environment where pensioners, workers, tradesmen are struggling to make a living, we can talk about Turkish inflation with five percent of the numbers of 6 per cent; what conscience can they afford to give an officer, worker, pensioner, 3 per cent increase in just one night? These raises need to be reconsidered. We've already lost a citizen...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0015par0112	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Heartfelt...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0016par0115	Mr. President, today is the anniversary of the death of the great Islamic commander Salahaddin Ayyubî. Despite the world's blessings laid out at your feet, I remember the conqueror of Jerusalem, who had no desire for anything but the cause of rights, with mercy and gratitude. Salahaddin Ayyubî is a commander who has forbidden him to laugh, to sleep, to save Jerusalem from the Crusades. Kurds, Turks, Arabs, Persians, Persians are paid for unity and unity. We need today more than ever the unity of the nation that Salahaddin Eyubíl, the inexhaustible star of Islam, provided centuries ago. The Islamic geography, which is dominated by tears and blood scattered all over the world, as if it were broken beads of rosary, must now throw away its dead soil. The Masjid Aksa is like an orphan's oasis, which will lead us to an unknown end when we are waiting for it. Now the descendants of Salahaddin Ayyubî have to wake up from the sleep of the century, and strengthen our unity and unity better.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0015par0117	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0017par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. As we all know, when we enter the election atmosphere, bureaucrats of the state are unfortunately not neutral. A friend of ours who has announced his candidacy as deputy Justice and Development Party candidate in Kopeleli has asked the citizen for support by participating in the talk, Deputy Governor Fikret Çelik. The same is the support and speech of the two mufts in the region, the Archangel Müft, who went there because of the fact that our former province Muft was a candidate for the ruling party. If government officials are not here, I warn the government: Do not allow bureaucrats, trustees, governors to be used in your own interests in the interests of the state, the state is being discredited. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0018par0124	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0019par0127	Mr. President, thank you. Our off-the-book friends have also mentioned a little bit, so I'd like to thank them. Recently, especially, agriculture has been supported ever since. In the past period, agriculture was supported per acre. Here, I'll give you $16 per acre as Department of Agriculture in mazotta, in fertilizer. This government came and cut it in half. Now, farmers usually file with the agricultural district manager's channel, but because agricultural activities don't work very well these days -- and the Department of Agriculture says they're very good at television, but -- they're not given these incentives and supports in the Agriculture Bank; so, because farmers are constantly calling us on the phone -- there's no Plasman. They say, if the Agriculture Ministry deals with this a little bit, we'd be happy if the farmers could get a little bit of their support in fertilizer, in mazotta. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0020par0130	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0021par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the wrong foreign policy followed by power and especially Syrian policy, the border counties have suffered a very serious loss. Hatay's economy, especially one of our border provinces, was seriously affected. We also see that the government has not taken any steps to address these problems. No political steps are being taken to address these problems. What measures do they intend to take to address these economic woes? Also, what is the reason for the most secure gate, the Crossroad, that is, still kept closed? Despite the fact that we have brought this matter up here, the government has given no explanation as to why the Yayladak Border Gate was closed. We expect a statement from the government immediately and the necessary steps to resolve this problem.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0022par0136	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0023par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as you know, oil prices are going down in the world, and even more than half the price of oil is going down, and I'm curious as to why this does not reflect on consumers in Turkey. Is the government using more than 50% of the price of oil to support the spending they want to spend ahead of the election in Turkey, by not projecting it to consumers in Turkey, and using the citizens' money as an election spending? The government also gave military assistance to the YPG, to the successor, and finally to the Iraqi government. I wonder if he's considering aiding the Turkmen and the Iraqi Turkmen. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0024par0143	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0025par0146	According to the inflation figures released yesterday, Turkey became the fourth highest inflation rate since Venezuela, Russia and Egypt. We've reset inflation, where AKP representatives and government representatives are always bragging about. This is where we see that their statements are equivalent to what they actually reset the money in the... There was no inflation in the world during their 12-year government, and there was none in Turkey. They didn't really have any work to do. And at the point where they can't reset inflation today, and they've come to the fourth place, the 4th country in the world with the highest inflation, and the fact that they can't manage the economy, we all see that this government, again, is making a serious increase at the point where the dollar comes today. Used to be devaluation, people got poor overnight. During the AKP times, people are left to die, little by little, every night. They need to be resolved immediately, and Turkey needs to get rid of AKP governments.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0024par0147	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Under Article 58 of the Civil Charter, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz has a request for correction. I'll give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0026par0152	Mr. President, in my speech on Article 37 yesterday, you will save your world about your practices, but in your afterlife, we will certainly answer for it. You will save your world... it may lead to misunderstandings. It may be as if in this world there is no question of accountability. This is how you save your world, but in MHP power, we're going to have to answer for it in law. I want it corrected. Dear MPs, now, with the power of power, with the majority of you in parliament, you can sign a number of illegalities in Turkey. On December 17th and 25th, you've identified these investigations with a number of changes you've made at HSYK, which we believe are the corruption of the century. Whosoever coveteth the property of this state, and he who siphoneth it, he verily will answer. So you can't get rid of it just by saying, "No, sir, there was a coup plan to the government." You find out who's doing the coup to the government, but that doesn't eliminate thefts, corruption, December 17th-25th. Now, remember those days well; through the pool media that you created by way of perception, the money in the principal's house, the money in the minister's children's cash boxes, you said, parallel cops, but there was a process of interest. Now, there's a difference. There is corruption in this country that reaches quadrillion December 17th-25th. If businessmen, bureaucrats, ministers, ministers, children, think they're getting away with it with special judges, prosecutors, cops, they're wrong. On June 7th, we will reopen these files in the power of the National Movement Party, and there will be a retrial of this by truly law-bound, impartial judges and prosecutors, and those kidnapped, confiscated quadrillions will be transferred from non-assigned teachers to farmers, to all the rest of the society, to our tradesmen, 5-10 people will be transferred to the general community. I want you to know that we're going to have to answer for this in the MHP administration. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0027par0159	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and know. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Spanish Senate President Mr. Pio Garcia-Escudero's visit to our country along with a Parliamentary delegation has been met with the 15/2/2015 decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Presidentship and 92. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 7/7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the past months, especially in the Hatay region and all over Turkey, the media and broadcast organs reported that the type of stolen vehicles and so on had been captured and there had been an explosion in these numbers, even the vehicles that INTERPOL was looking for had been captured in Hatay. 1) What number of stolen vehicles have been captured in Hatay since January 2012? What is the number of stolen vehicles that have been stolen in Turkey since January 2012? Are there asylum seekers from Syria among those selling or buying stolen vehicles? Is it true that these vehicles, which are wanted and sold in Hatay Province, are being used by opponents in the conflict in Syria? What kind of transaction has been made about the sale of stolen vehicles and the purchases? 2) Do you have a list of Turkish-plated vehicles entering and exiting 2 border crossings in Hatay since January 2012? If so, what are the plates called? 3) From what border gates or from where are asylum seekers from Syria accepted? What kind of documents are arranged for asylum seekers who arrive in vehicles? Are there any stolen vehicles with Turkish plates in them? In order to answer the questions mentioned above, and to address the problems of the people and other citizens in Turkey's various cities, who are victims, and to protect their rights, we would like to ask for the opening of the Parliament's investigation under the purview of Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to determine and implement solution proposals in the Hatay region and Turkey. 1) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Bolu]] 4) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 7) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] 10) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] 24) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In response to Turkey's prestigious and distinguished Kurdish artist Ahmet Kaya's statement that he was Kurdish at an award ceremony and that he was going to sing in Kurdish, we would like to ask the Parliament to open and investigate on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter, in order to bring the people responsible to justice by targeting their ethnic identity and away from Turkey. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] November 16th is the anniversary of the death of Turkey's distinguished artist, Ahmet Kaya, the creator and icon of the original musical style. Ahmet Kaya was asked to be lynched by artists, businessmen, programme producers, journalists who attended that night after he said he would sing in Kurdish on a night of awards. Later events forced him to leave Turkey. Ahmet Kaya, who has been asked for years in prison for cases that have been launched without any further investigation based on the surreal news of the newspapers, has repeatedly expressed that he wants to return to his country, but neither authorities nor artists have shown any sensitivity. Adeta died of a heart attack in Paris on 16 November 2000 in Europe, when he lived in exile at the age of forty-three. As long as he lived, he acted as a serious, heavy, and responsible artist who stressed brotherhood at every turn in order for peace to dominate his beloved country, expressing that the Kurdish reality must be seen and accepted, expressing that differences should be seen and accepted and that they should have equal rights in peace. Ahmet Kaya received the "Best Artist Award" for the Association of Magazine Journalists on February 10, 1999. "I receive this award not only on my behalf, but on behalf of the Human Rights Association, Saturday Mothers, all the people who work for the magazine and all the people of Turkey. Because I'm Kurdish, I'm doing a Kurdish song on the next tape, and I'm doing a music video in Kurdish. I know there are some of us who have the guts to broadcast this video, and I know how to deal with the people of Turkey if they don't." he asked for support from the art community. Reactions were raised in the hall over his speech, insults directed at his ethnic identity, and he was severely insulted. Artists at night, forks, spoons and so on. They tried to lynch him by throwing objects. Some artists who have seen an extremely ugly picture of his human output have also been unable to tolerate his rise as a Kurdish, his presence as a Kurdish, and his concealment of his origin. An artist in the hall said, "There is no such thing as a Kurdish." He caused Ahmet Kaya to go on the journey of death, screaming. Another artist said, "Gentlemen, don't you have a brave TV man? He's insulting us." he led the lynching campaign. Another artist consciously targeted him by reading the Tenth Year March. While insults to Ahmet Kaya continued, a news show host invited all the participants to the stage to make their responses to him harder, "My hometown is different." He started to read his song. On the night of the award, Ahmet Kaya became a Kurdish anti-Kurdish event led by artists, after saying he was Kurdish, saying he was going to sing in Kurdish, saying he dedicated his award to his Mothers and Human Rights Association on Saturday. So it might be said that those who actually want to lynch him there, those who remain silent against lynching, are directly responsible for his injustice. There's footage, footage, footage of artists insulting him. All legal and real persons who have taken Ahmet Kaya from his country, from his family, from his children must be judged. Because Ahmet Kaya suffered a heart attack and lost his life because he did not accept the injustice that had been done to him, and had repeatedly explained and defended himself, but was unable to endure this grief because he did not receive any positive response from his country. Anyone responsible for Ahmet Kaya's life also owes his family and the people of Turkey an apology. The situation is very clear. But so far, there has been no investigation of the events that have caused his condition. It is also responsible for the judicial departments who have filed a lawsuit against him and have made a decision by referring to news media and newspaper headlines. Given these issues, it is imperative that those responsible for causing Ahmet Kaya to go through all this should be brought to trial. It'll be a shame to the artists who want to lynch him. It is imperative that both Turkey's sad events never happen again, nor our historical responsibility, for the opening of a parliamentary investigation in order for the full extent of the incident to be illuminated. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although nearly 40,000 people have lost their lives from March 15, 2011 to today due to the ongoing conflicts in Syria, the conflicts continue. Turkey's Foreign Ministry has continued to sign international agreements with the Assad regime, which cannot establish policy at the beginning of the conflict. Following the civil war in Syria, the AKP's government, which has been demanding democracy, has been organised from the locals and exhibits various strategies and applications in harmony with the achievements of Syrian Kurds, a democratic power. The government, which wants the peace, stability and organisation of the Kurds in Syria to be corrupted, is supporting armed gangs and increasing chaos and turmoil in Syria. In our border region, Serekaniya (Resulayn) across the district of Şanlıurfa Ceylanpınar is also a scene of violent conflict. Armed gangs supported by Turkey are not fighting the regime, but the Kurds who live there. In a statement issued by the government, however, support has been declared against the regime. In order to uncover the causes of Turkey's dilemma in Syrian policy, to determine the role of the AKP's government in the attacks against the Syrian Kurds, I demand that Parliament investigate the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. All public opinion is closely monitoring the ongoing conflicts in Syria. In the past few days, there have been intense conflicts in Serekanii, which is located across the district of Ceylanpınar. Unlike previous conflicts, these conflicts take place between armed gangs such as the Free Syrian Army, Al-Nusra, and Kurds living in the area. Turkey should adopt a role that prevents these conflicts from happening, but Turkey is not making any effort to end these conflicts. On the contrary, Turkey's government has opened all borders to armed gangs fighting Kurds. The Turkish-Syrian borders are entirely open to all use of these organisations. When requested, these organisations are able to move to Syria as requested, and when requested, they are easily moved to Turkey's side. Although there is no decision made by the Assembly for these uncontrollable transitions, our entire Syrian border has been left to control and savings of these armed gangs. As a matter of fact, on 21 November 2012, the Free Syrian Army and some gangs crossed through Turkey through seven tanks and 50 military vehicles and retreated to Turkey after their conflict with the Kurds and moved back to Turkey. It is not known how this could happen, how the government allowed it to happen. It is also stated that Turkey supports an unknown political organisation called El-Nusra (El-Nusra). It has also appeared in the press that Turkey has formed an armed group called "Selahaddin Eyubi" and its conflict with Kurds in Syria has been encouraged. Supporting these organisations by Turkey deepens conflicts in Syria, and deepens the unresolved Kurdish problem in Turkey. Turkey has also reportedly sent TSK troops to Syria to fight in Syria and especially with the Free Syrian Army. The Fars News Agency and Syrian National News Agency in Iran announced on November 13, 2012 that a TSK member was killed by Assad forces in a conflict between Assad forces and armed groups. The Ministry has not made any statements about this, nor has the mainstream media made any reports. The AKP government, which failed to produce politics in the days when civil war began in Syria, was more disreputable in Syrian policy and Middle Eastern policy, exposing the haste of lateness. This disgrace has changed Turkey's macro targets for Syria, and Turkey has focused its entire Syrian policy on blocking and corroding the achievements of Kurds in Syria. In this context, opposition gangs have been armed inside Turkey and have been encouraged to attack the Kurdish region in Syria, causing major damage to both sides of the Kurdish border. In recent attacks, Syrian Kurds People's Assembly President Abid Xelil and many Kurdish gangs have lost his life. We demand a parliamentary investigation into Turkey's deep stalemate in Syrian policy, to determine the role of the AKP's government in the attacks on Syrian Kurds, to expose the deep stalemate of opposition gangs supported for attacks on Syrian Kurds, Turkey and Syria's Kurds. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressman Haydar Akar. There's a request to amend it according to Article 58 of the Civil Code. I'll carry it out. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0028par0308	Mr. President, in my speech yesterday to the MHP group proposal about the problems of taxi drivers, I actually meant that people like us who earn money for this job, people who don't use it, can be misconstrued. I want to fix this, and the rest of the sentence goes: I say that whatever is being used, Benzin, diesel, LPG, should be given a percentage discount. Actually, there's a chance for that. You know, oil barrel prices are going down all over the world, and even though it's reached the level of $50-60 from the levels we're making at $120 tops today, no fuel pen in Turkey has ever been discounted that much. There have been very small discounts, but these days, in order to get the wrong economic methods of dollars and dollars that Mr. President couldn't zero in, he went out every day and shared his vast information in public, past the dollar-and-a-half, and from that discount, citizens living in Turkey, citizens using fuel products, and citizens making a living out of it. That's it? The President of the day, who has this vast experience and knowledge, has knowledge of everything but is working hard to bring down the economy of Turkey, is not aware of inflation in Turkey. The AKP government, which constantly identifies inflation with increased energy prices or oil prices during the twelve-year period of AKP rulings, has been ranked fourth in the world's inflation ranking at their destination today. And if they go at this rate -- at the same speed -- in the same electricity -- in expensive use of electricity, in expensive use of natural gas, in the use of expensive fuel products, the world will also take over its 1st place in inflation. As prices go down all over the world, unfortunately, prices are rising in Turkey, and as it goes up, the citizen continues to be a victim. Today, when we look at inflation, we sit in the fourth place after Venezuela, Russia and Egypt, where we are in the developing countries -- which we are developing, and you're developing, and you're saying that -- in each one, the average is 3.1 in Malaysia; 1.3 in South Korea; 4 in Mexico; 1.5 in the countries developed in the United States; 2.7 in Japan; 0.4 in European countries. I mean, even Mexico from 34 OECD countries we've been competing with has half as much inflation as our country. There's only one thing that's been done during the AKP administration -- you have a way of managing poverty, not ending poverty -- and thanks to you, Turkey has increased the number of poor -- that we're proud of the number of poor people that you're talking about, and we're paying all of you with respect.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0029par0313	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday/3/2015, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 8 January 2015, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani and his friends (1318 rows no. The parliamentary survey motion, which was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the purpose of investigating the courts, was proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday/3/2015, and to be held in the same dated combination of talks. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0030par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. The reason we bring this up is not to open the door to a period of the republic; rather, to face the darkness in our history, to face our history, and to open the way for legalisation, we have brought this proposal to the agenda of our Parliament, and we hope that the Assembly, and the General Assembly, will accept this proposal. I'm not going to go into details about the history of the Supreme Courts, but I think it's a matter of which all of our MPs are admissible. However, as a summation, we can say that all of the Supreme Court judges were also members of the National Assembly of Turkey, as well as the fact that they were members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as the establishment of these courts at the time: 1) The decisions of these courts are not open to debate, they are not open to appeal, the verdict is fixed and final. 2) The decision makers will not be questioned in any way, nor will they be judged for their attitudes. 3) Decisions must be carried out by military and civilian bureaucracy. We're talking about a mechanism of lawmakers, all of their members. In fact, when you say the Kurdish problem now, when you say the Kurdish and Kurdistan problem, it's always said that it began with the history of the republic, but that's not the truth. The preliminaries of the Kurdish problem go up to the beginning of the 19th century, and one of the places where the fuse was fired is the Constitution of 1876. The 17th article of that Constitution is a starting point of the elements of denial and denial that are still preserved in the current Constitution of the republic. On that day, Kurds were forced to learn Turkish, as was the case with all Ottoman subjects, under the 17th Amendment of the Constitution. You know, two years later, one of the greatest riots in history took place based on this decision. The Supreme Courts served in two phases as of the republic's founding period. But, especially for the Al Jazeera front, there are two administrative courts set up in the area of Al Jazeera; Sivas and Diyarbakır Istiklal Courts. The transcripts of these two courts have not been reflected in Parliament in any way, their reports haven't come to Parliament. Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek has made a statement recently that the records of the ruling courts will be published in 10 volumes. However, I insisted on accessing those copies in those books, Mr. Cemil Cicek. Since there was no sign of him, the Parliamentary Archives Directorate did not give us these reports, even though he was standing there in print. There are no transcripts of Sivas, Diyarbakır and Iconian Istiklal Courts in particular. Where are these reports? These reports were handed over to the Turkish Institute for the History of the Inscription, according to the statement of one of the Diyarbakır Istiklal Court judges, its presidents, Hacim Muhittin Çariklı. The minutes to be made in parliament have been submitted to the Turkish Institute for Influence History. We want to see, we want to study. We say, we don't have the chance to reach these resources. I took these references by taking some references from Ergün Aybars, who wrote a book in order to exonerate the rulings of the Supreme Courts. I didn't resort to written sources on the destructions created by the Supreme Courts, but I did try to reach these sources from Ergün Aybars' book in particular. However, Ergün Aybars says that I may have overlooked some documents. There may be some manipulation of numbers. For example, I haven't been able to find the documents of the Diyarbakır Istiklal Court, which has worked for about a month. And he says, Aybars, I couldn't reach these documents. Now, we say, "Let these documents be explained." To whom should they be explained? Let it be explained to a parliamentary commission for parliamentary research. Let the House Research Commission enter, reveal these documents, these historical truths. Then we'll have the opportunity to face a dark period. But we think the people who hide these documents in particular are hiding them in a different way. This is not a statement, and one of those who has this impression is Parliament Speaker Cemil Çiçek. Because in his press statement about the release of these documents, he uses a statement in one part of the books said to be distributed to the MPs and to the public, in the form of leaked to the press, in his presumption of five years of longing is over. However, a mindset with sympathy for the period, sympathetic to the decisions of the ruling courts, is ending for a period of nine or five years. On the contrary, the time has come for our history to face a time of darkness. It should have used its declaration. These documents can only be made public with this impression. See, the esteemed MPs, Mazhar Mufit Kansu, who have partially resisted the decisions of the Diyarbakır İstiklal Court, are complaining to Ismet Inönü. İsmet Inönu sends a telegram to Ahmet Tarayya Bey as prime minister. The telegram uses the exact words: ▪Gayey, Kurds and Kurdishism to be crushed forever. Deal with the judge friends. I'll kiss your eyes. Deputy Prime Minister Ismet Inönu. This is Prime Minister İsmet Inönu, who also served as President of the Republican People's Party at the time. Based on who? From whom are the Supreme Courts based? It's based on French inspiration. As we've always said, you've been referred to as Europe's prodigal face, and unfortunately, you've stayed there, and you've stayed there as part of all its practices. In 1793-1794, a court like the will court was set up in France. 2,774 people were executed in Paris alone, totalling 17,000 of the execution of this court within a year. But because of these decisions, the number of people that this mindset has slaughtered in France is 400. Thus, this is the effect of the sovereignty courts in Turkey. Between 1921 and 1938, in Turkey, the number of people the government of the Republic of Turkey, its rulers, slaughtered in this geography is around 400,000. Go into the archives, look, you'll see.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0031par0341	What makes you say that, Zozani?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0032par0342	Don't.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0030par0343	All those who were slain in Koçgiri, Zilan, Dersim, Agiri, all of them are a manifestation of this mentality. How many thousands of people were slaughtered in my class, tell them to come out. Since you're objecting to the numbers we're saying, we're calling it a challenge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Open the Capitol archives, all the archives, open all the documents, and we'll see the truth, the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0033par0346	Let's open it, let's open it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0030par0347	Let us know how many were slain in Koçgiri, Zilan, Agiri, and Dersim, and Bethüşşebap.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0034par0348	Of course, let's open the archives.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0030par0349	And it's a manifestation of the mindset. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0035par0352	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Against Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0036par0356	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group's proposal for the ruling courts of the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we have no objection to the disclosure of information and documents regarding historical events in the history of the republic or before it. Again, let the archives open, we have no objection to that, but we object to the declaration of the republic and to the declaration of the beginning of the republic as a dark period. The Republic is the beginning of a bright period, and every birth has pains, no labor without pain; and in its own circumstances, there is no absolute right or absolute wrong. We need to examine the Supreme Courts, the process that's emerging. During the days following the Mondros Auction, in an environment of anarchy and desertion, where Anatolia fell into remind of the days of the Fetret Age, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the operation of the Istanbul government and the British action against imperialism had been felt more and more intense. In those days, some were trying to stop this independence movement, some were propaganda to prevent it, spying on strangers, running from the military, running away. In such an environment, the first courts were established in 1920. The second term was held on July 30, 1921. These ruling courts are also related to the assassination of Ataturk (Ataturk) and the Kublai incident. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what's important here is that you really have to calculate the conditions of the establishment of these sovereign courts. In this hand I have a letter from Ataturk to Ismet Pasha. This letter is written on October 30, 1923, and I think of you as the first prime minister of the republic, and Ataturk describes the situation in the country at that time as follows: I will sum up to you the general situation that is even more tragic than you know now. We inherited a diseased country that owed us money. We're a poor country. We're supposed to be farm country, but we bring most of our breadstick flour from the outside. The cattle plague is killing our livestock. Half our population is sick. The infant mortality rate is 60 percent. The number of villages burned by the enemy is 830. The number of burning buildings is 114.408. We almost have to rebuild the country. Our economic life and education are pathetic. What Ataturk said at that time is very important, valuable lawmakers: there is neither an example or an experiment that shows how to get out of this difficult situation, but not to be discouraged, not to be satisfied with cheap, temporary solutions, to solve problems to save the people, to develop, to advance, to create a civilized and free society based on national sovereignty, to reach the level of our century, to be modernized in short, and to achieve the ideal of great Turkey, says Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I really think the reckoning of the past should be a wholeness. Taking a piece of this integrity, putting it on the table, can only be a product of populism. I think it should be the duty of historians to examine the events of history, these documents. What happened in the circumstances of that day 90 years ago today is of no use to anyone who is truly involved in the actions of politics that would lead to the abuse of politics. These historians, of course, have to examine the case of historical domain courts with their pros and cons in front of society. Every revolution creates transition laws and transitional institutions. The sovereign courts, the status quo developed against the republic's revolution, are the courts founded to suppress regressive resistance. It's a method of reading the Supreme Courts with the lens of today's understanding instead of the conditions of that era. In the French Revolution, in the Soviet Revolution, in all revolutions -- in the People's Republic of China, in the 49 People's Republic of China, in October 1917 and in February revolutions, in 1789, in the French Revolution -- the law of the revolution has always dominated, the institutions of the revolution. The conditions of the Ottomans in the collapse are impossible to assess the modern character of the Ataturk revolution and the property courts without the assessment of today's achievements. It's a concept of purity to be able to suppress regressive riots in Anatolia with straight courts. The fundamental difference between the mindset, which has surrendered to the purity that makes Ataturk, and the mindset that performs the requirements immediately and without delay. The Supreme Courts of Turkey in 1920 were the conditions of Turkey and the truth of that day in the world. However, today's ruling courts are today's errors in the face of the distance Turkey has traveled in the direction of modern civilization. I have nothing to say to those who can't read the Supreme Courts with letters dictated by the terms of time. We can't take this day to that day, that day to this day. We should read the river of time when the water flows, not by looking at the water. Dear lawmakers, there is an inquiry commission established after the 1950s. Look -- this inquiry commission -- the headline of the National Assembly on 19 April 1960 is: "All political activities have been halted." The investigation commission that made this decision has become unable to carry out Prime Minister Menderes. This was founded in 1960, long after the declaration of the republic. Dear MPs, the point we object to is that the events of history must be explained by historians, documents must be explained, archives must be uncovered, but it is everyone's duty to oppose the attacks against the republic through the willful courts; it must be our duty, through Turkish, Kurdish, with Çerkeklu, with Alevi, with Sunni, with all of us. The Republic is a common value. Of course, it is natural to make mistakes when the republic is formed. Of course, there are no rules of dissolution of forces that day, which are already established within the House, there is nothing more natural than the members of that court being from the House in the circumstances of that day.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0037par0365	Is it up to you to defend the Supreme Court, Mr. Ozturk, if you love Allah?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0036par0366	Of course, there are wrong decisions made by the Supreme Court. There are wrong decisions in every court, there are wrong decisions made by the will courts, but it is not the right of anyone to deal with the republic by carrying them on the agenda, to deal with the Ataturk, to deal with the basic values of the republic, and it is not the right of anyone, dear friends; it is our objection.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0038par0368	Is it up to you to defend the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0036par0369	Look, the precious MPs, Menderes, tell me that you're not the one who set up the Supreme Court, Pasha, Pasha, and what democracy are you talking about in this House? Dear MPs, Ismet Pasha replied: "Yes, I am; I am the one who has set up these administrative courts, but I have come from there to there, and you are going from there to there. Again, on Wednesday (June 27, 1956) in this assembly session, Democratic Party Sivas MP Nurettin Erturk has spoken to Ismet Pasha (Ismet Pasha) from his seat: ▪ The words of the right and freedom of the citizen do not suit your language, Ismet İnöneu, which reminds you of the argument that Menderes used a lot. We've come from the absolute, and you're going from this day to absolute. Here, in Turkey, Ismet Innu, called the fascist, is able to absorb democracy at that time, in the conditions of that day. In Turkey, 2015, where people still lack basic rights and freedoms... that's where Mehmet Haberal sits, four years in prison, no questions asked. With today's special court of law, people still get up when they can't use their basic rights and freedoms... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...today, it is unacceptable to deal with the events of the 1920s in Turkey. Besides, like any regime, the republic has no right to legalize its enemies, it has the right to settle accounts. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0039par0375	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0040par0376	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0039par0377	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0040par0378	Mr. President, Mr. Ozturk has made several compelling, hurtful, abusive statements in his speech. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to exercise my right to tease, and I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0039par0379	You want to answer. Here you go, three minutes without picking on you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0041par0381	I didn't pick on you, Mr. President. I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0039par0382	He described some of your words as teasing, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0041par0383	I've told you my thoughts, just as my friend has told you his.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0039par0384	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0042par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. That's what history is: it's a beautiful moment for people to face their own reality, and I'll tell you that it's good for people to be able to talk about these historical possibilities on occasion, when they're talking about history in some way, when they're talking about their subconscious realities. No matter what date, no matter what time period, it's a very important thing. Ahmet Surayya is the Attorney General of Diyarbakır İstiklal Court. A young man is called, arrested, tried. But, in no way, in that young court, in the will court, he won't open his mouth, he won't say anything, he's being executed. The reason that young man doesn't speak at the Supreme Court is because he doesn't know the language the court speaks. He was a Kurdish teenager, he only knew Kurdish, he couldn't express himself in court because he didn't speak Turkish, and he was executed as a Kurdish teenager who couldn't express himself, who couldn't speak in court. At night, he entered the dream of Ahmet Tayyya; Mr. Ozturk, since you are a lawyer, perhaps you will understand, that perhaps tonight you will come into your dream, that tomorrow you will say something different, that you will speak the truth -- he said: "What was my fault, what was my sin, why did you decide my execution, why did you cause my execution? Why did you decide my execution? The Mazhar Mufit Kansu complains to Ismet Innu, İsmet Inönu -- I've just read it, you may have missed it, I'll read it again -- is that the heads of Kurds and Kurds will be crushed forever. I kiss him in the eyes. He says to Ahmet Tarayya. That's the Ismet Innu you've just scalded. He uses another expression in one place. If they have made mistakes that cannot be avoided, they should not attribute it to anything other than their sincere conviction. On the contrary, there are some shortcomings that need to be done for the sake of their conviction and purpose, he says. Who's it for? That's what Ismet Inönu says about members of the Supreme Court. Where does it say it? He uses these statements at the Republican People's Party congress. Ismet Inönu uses these statements in the Republican People's Party congress.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0043par0390	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0044par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0043par0392	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0044par0393	Mr. President, the speaker said I was speaking in contradictions, so I'd like to answer for him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0043par0394	Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0044par0396	Dear President, Councilmen, Mr. Zozani has spoken of my conflicting position. I said that I didn't say that everything the Imperial Courts did was true. You actually confirmed what I said. I said it's only natural for the Supreme Courts to make some wrong decisions and to have them. Even today, if the decisions made in Turkey in 2015 are wrong, there are the decisions made by Ergenekon, Balyoz, Oda TV, KCK cases, when people have been deprived of their freedoms in prisons for years without question and want to exercise their right to defend themselves, I have already said in my speech that there is no right, there is no absolute wrong, if they can't even use their defences. But what I'm saying is, Marxism, as someone who knows Leninism very well: in the October Revolution of 1917, in the February revolution, didn't that revolution create its own institutions, its own law? Didn't Mao Zedong create his own institutions when he founded the Democratic People's Republic in the People's Republic of China in 1949? You're saying that the 1789 French Revolution did not create its own institutions, its own courts? Now, can we say that 1789 was a dark period? 1789 is the foundation of the fall of feudalism and of the capitalist society, which is revolutionary in the circumstances of that day. Didn't Spartacus and the other slaves who resisted the slave system in the slave empire get staked? Now what I want to say is that I know exactly what I'm talking about. I say it is not right to deal with the republic with 2015, with a collective understanding of the decisions made by the courts of the 1920 world and Turkey in Turkey. That's what you're saying, our goal is not to deal with the republic. You say that. If your goal is to uncover the archives, it is not a political institution's job. The events of history should not be used by politicians. The painful events of history, what is important, should not happen today, and today there really is a lot of pain in democracy in this Turkey, but we are getting up to deal with the sufferings of the 1920s in Turkey. That's what I want to say. What's important today is that these sufferings don't happen today. I think it's because these generations and future generations didn't have to go through this with the Kurd, with the Turk. Therefore, my words are very clear. We have no objection to the disclosure of the archives and the disclosure of the documents. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0045par0401	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0046par0402	Mr. President, Mr. Ozturk has accused us of defaming the republic. Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0045par0403	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0047par0404	Mr. President, you'd better build a panel outside.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0046par0405	You may step outside. We're talking about the issues these councilmen have caused in history.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0407	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, believe me, sometimes I want to laugh, but I can't. Mr. Ozturk, I wish you had learned about Kemalism and Marxism well.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0049par0409	I know Marxism better than you, Tiger. Look, I know better than you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0410	Yeah, we're, we're talking about a past. Face it and the truth about...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0049par0411	You're a politician in CHP.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0412	Wait a minute, be patient.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0050par0413	Don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0414	Now, is there anyone in this House defending the inquisition courts? Is there? There's nothing to defend, brother.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0051par0415	Nobody's defending anything.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0416	Well, that's how those judges, the martial law courts, and then the state security courts, want to judge you from the coups in 1960 by the Menderes. I was attacked here in front of this bench. AK PARTY also brought special authority courts. KCK went in, Ergenekon went in, lawyers went in, the press went in, they all went in, they were tried for this case, and they removed special authority courts after a year, but again, the special criminal courts that were put in place today were the same courts. You...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0052par0417	Okay, I'm saying the same thing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0418	No, look, if you recognize a fair share of legitimacy and legitimacy in these past court proceedings, you can't understand why an independent judiciary is not in Turkey today. The main point of the lack of justice in Turkey is the courts founded for political reasons, executions, and cruel implementation of enemy law there. All jurisprudence, let alone the lawyer, should not allow any of these extraordinary times to be legitimate to any court. Especially when we bring in our research proposal. These are used for defamation against the republic. We want a democratic republic, my dear brother, an independent judgment in a democratic republic. No citizen should be insulted by his faith, opinion, color, race, identity, discrimination, and be judged fairly. Turkey needs this today. Of course, if you go to the French Revolution, Robespierre also passed the guillotine law, the second republic. What happened? Robespierre, he died in that guillotine. In 2015, in the 21st century, we cannot defend any extraordinary court here on this stand in the name of the people. This is what we invite you to do. Don't be afraid to face it. It's good to face history, it's good to face facts, it's good to face justice, but never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0053par0422	The formation of the Republic is a coup?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0048par0423	We advise you not to defend any extraordinary court here.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0053par0425	Is the formation of the Republic a coup, Hasip Kaplan?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0054par0426	Thank you, Tiger. Chandırı MP İdris Şahin...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0053par0428	Is it a coup, the formation of the republic?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0055par0429	60 revolutions, right? 72 hits, right? 82 hits, right?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0053par0430	The coup... I said 60 revolutions.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0055par0431	Chocolate or sugar?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0053par0433	Wait a minute, Hasip Kaplan, don't demagogue, for God's sake! I'm asking you about the founding of the republic, did I ask you about 60?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0056par0434	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0057par0438	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the People's Democratic Party group proposal. I salute your high council. First of all, it is a court that was founded on September 18, 1920, with a special law to judge those who rioted during the Turkish Liberation War, and tried to loot the mutineers, the mutineers, the army's weapons and ammunition, the spies, the deserters, and those who did propaganda in order to prevent the movement of independence. The second term began on July 30, 1921, and continued its activities until October 1923. In the third term and in the final term, the ruling courts were held between 1923 and 1927. Apart from the first-term administrative courts that served during the Liberation War, the ruling courts were then established, which carried out different tasks according to their time. According to Uður Mumcu, these institutions are antidemocratic executions, which, in special cases such as war and revolution, are judged by rebels, subversives and counter-revolutionaries. Courts have been established in 7 regions following the adoption of the law of the Supreme Courts. These are Ankara, Eskişehir, Konya, Isparta, Sivas, Kastamon and Pozantı; then Diyarbakır istul courts were established. The reason I'm counting these is that, in particular, there's a reference to the fact that there's only one area where there's a law enforcement court. In the terms of that period, however, the state-run courts in Anatolia and Thrace had been established in order to judge all the people of the region in the riots I mentioned above. I'd like to express that from here in particular. In order to reach a decision on the independence courts, it is necessary to consider what political and military, social emergencys these courts are working in, and to examine them within the conditions of their own era. In fact, the decision of any court established in a legal state as an exception is controversial. Because law is universal. For each human, the practice of the same procedure and basis and the right to defend must be known to the person who is judged without limitation. The Supreme Courts are courts that have been seen to be suspended from time to time, while normal legal procedures were not used during a period of extreme danger to the nation. Only extraordinary measures have been sought, law and human rights have been severely violated. The Supreme Court judges are elected members of Parliament, and not all of them have passed law school. As with their early decisions, the rulings of second and third-term rulings have been discussed for many years, as well as for many decisions that are free of rights and justice until today. A very important study has been launched in Turkey's Grand National Assembly on the proceedings of that period and its decisions to be translated into modern-day Turkish, and it will soon take its place in Parliament archives, which will shed light on history. After these studies, the methods and foundations of the royal courts can be presented to the knowledge of our historians, lawyers, and our nation. There have been many academic and historical studies of this period, and documents and reports of the period have been presented to public knowledge. As proposed in the motion to set up the research commission, the implementation of the will courts has caused great pain not only in certain areas, but throughout Asia Minor and Thrace. Therefore, we all suffer in common with the ill-advised appeals made in the Supreme Courts. Taking a path like racing our pain can lead to a different point in our nation's view of the sovereign courts, whose legitimacy has always been questioned. So let's not look at the bigger picture and miss the more painful part of the country. Let us all say the wrong things, the right things, together in front of history. We all know how much pain is left behind by the executions and decisions of the royal courts, which we did not doubt were originally founded in good faith. Therefore, as the AK PARTI government, which eliminates private court courts, especially state security courts, such as the sovereign courts, we are eager to create a country for the integration of democracy in Turkey, for the survival of fundamental rights and freedoms as they wish. As a government that meets those changes, we have a legitimate pride, and we are representatives of a government that says that we share a common value of the republic at every turn and in every turn. Again, as Hazreti Maslana said, dear, yesterday is yesterday's day, and we must say new things today. I say, let's try to walk into the future with a very different horizon and vision, in order to learn from the past examples of everyone involved in the construction of the new Turkey. The parliament's agenda is very clear; the internal security bill has been under discussion for days. Therefore, when the research proposal is prepared as a document for historians and our Parliament, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, considering that these efforts will be presented to the discretion of all jurists and our nation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0058par0453	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0059par0454	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0060par0455	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0058par0456	Sir...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0060par0457	Mr. Orator reflected it as if there was an unregistered impression of our research proposal, so he teased us. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0058par0458	Mr. Halaçoglu, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0061par0459	I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0058par0460	You want to make a brief statement. Mr. Zozani, Mr. Halaçoglu will make his statement, and then I'll promise you. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0062par0465	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, most of the most important records of the Supreme Courts are in our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and as Mr. Idris has just said, it has been translated into a large-scale Latin alphabet, and will soon be presented to everyone's research. You know the Diyarbakır Istiklal Court went on for three months, and then you know that the records of these were probably... I mean, in our research that we did, like other documents in Diyarbakir Walls -- you know, the towers inside the towers -- the documents after the time of the full National War period -- were sold to the lebles, unfortunately. I did the Office of the Archives. I'm afraid they've been sold before. Some of it, very few of it, had been acquired, some of it had been delivered to our archives, but there were no records of the administrative courts here, I'll tell you that in particular. I'm afraid they haven't shown any good archivistry. On the other hand, the Supreme Court is really a court for all sorts of issues such as espionage activities, assault on military families, disqualification of monogamous nationalia. Let me give you an example here. Mustafa Sahir, an Indian-born British agent, was arrested and taken to court in the name of little Mustafa. As Ergün Aybars did in his book -- he did the most extensive research -- 1,630 people in this regard -- from 1920 to 1927, the administrative courts. The last resort court is the Ankara Istiklal Court, and the others are closed. In 1926, the Ankara Istiklal Court remained in 1927. The number of those tried and executed is 1,630, from that date to that date. So have wrongs been done or not? Friends, in any state, there have been such errors in the courts of all states, but the philosophy of this establishment here is certainly a matter of the protection of the republic against the King Ferit government and British agents, who cooperated with the British government, and a number of issues here. So they've always been seen, working with the enemy, helping the enemy, and they're in 1915, not new. Wrongs, like I said, may have been done, but you don't have to overdo it and shape it. For example, you said that 400,000 people were murdered, killed, between 1921 and 1938. Well, that's not true. Who killed him where? Look, even in the event of my lesson, according to the 1935 census of Dersim ▪, increase the population to 107. The population of my class is 94. So in 1927, you know, because of the establishment of the Tunceli province, in the general sense we call it, it's not my lesson in the Ottoman Empire. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So Erzincan didn't exist or anything. Hence, since about 11,000 or so people have been exiled here, the loss of the class is around 2,000. So these are fixed with documents. So instead of a lot of talking, you have to apply for archive documents, do a lot of research. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0063par0473	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0064par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hawk, if you'd read the last paragraph of our research proposal, you wouldn't have come to the impression that we've only brought up the applications of one area. Mr. Halaçoglu expressed it, and I said it in my speech, that the reports of Diyarbakır, Konya and Sivas is not in the Parliament archives, but destroyed. A chair of an estate court, the president of the Diyarbakır Istiklal Court, stated in his book, expressed in his interview in 1954. The engineer says: "We have delivered the documents to the Turkish Institute of History." Who says that? That's what Muhittin Wheelman says. We're looking into these. But you may have been wronged by expressing this sentence, but you have to express it in that period. If you say, 20 years later, someone has to describe your antidemocratic practices with the characters of that period. What is the basis of the Supreme Court? The Law on Betrayal was established on the basis of the 14-point Law on Betrayal. See what article 1 says: "Those who cause opposition and corruption by their thinking or practices or writing against the Grand National Assembly are considered traitors." I mean, even those who oppose the republic are traitors. Who is one of these traitors, dear friends? It is Hodja Atef the Iskelite. You're dating, aren't you, Mr. Atef the Scyclone? You're defending it, aren't you? Well, we're bringing in a research motion here. Look, a man of thought, a scholar, we say he shouldn't be executed, but you bring him in, you object. You're putting up a dissertation like that here with the CHP in an effort to somehow refute what we're saying just because we brought it in. Don't contradict yourself, please. Another thing: Mr. Bulent Arinc did not say that Ethem, as Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker, is not a traitor from our point of view? He did. Well, you're saying the opposite here. Guys, please don't get the wrong idea just because the HDP is bringing this truth up. You meet in the wrong of the Republican People's Party, AK PARTY just because HDP says so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you do so, you will also provide an excuse for the future of today's practices. My respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0065par0484	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party has proposed a group...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0066par0486	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit01spe0065par0488	I'll meet the roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Soshi, Mr. Ayadim, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Onur, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Fine, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Elector. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0065par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The poll was requested before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, and the meeting was not enough. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0065par0013	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0014	Mr. President, there's a two-pronged, two-on-two debate on group proposals. The Justice and Development Party blocked two talks -- one in favor of our group proposal and one against it. Mr. Idris Şahin and Mr. Recep were supposed to speak privately, but Mr. Recep didn't speak privately and was not invited to the stand. We didn't know if he was pulling out, and neither did any of the other groups. Thus, no speech was made.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0068par0015	It's done.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0016	You've made a mistake here. We demand a formal debate on your attitude according to 63.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0017	Now, Mr. Zozani...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0018	It's the truth... it's the truth, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0019	You know the presidency meets their commitment demands. Here are the names of Mr. Ozturk and Mr. Sahin. In his favor, no other MP has filed a request for a speech here. When we don't print it, we can't summon a person who isn't written. The situation with Mr. Special is beyond our knowledge.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0021	Mr. Recep's name was written when he brought us the document.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0022	Well, they pulled back, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0023	The paper with my name on it has the name of Mr. Recep Special.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0024	E, he's been pulled back and replaced by another speaker.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0025	Sir, he's not here, there's no speaker.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0026	I do.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0027	Who, who?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0028	Against you...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0029	Who, who? We don't know the other speaker.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0030	Mr. Idris Şahin.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0031	Mr. President, there have been three speeches, four no speeches.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0070par0032	Follow, follow... follow the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0069par0033	They've taken it, they're not talking.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0034	Sir, we don't know it's been withdrawn. Groups need to know. Another group can use it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0071par0035	You need to know?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0036	Yeah, I should know. Yeah, the bands need to know. If it was pulled, another group could use it. Yeah, that's the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0072par0037	He talked, he talked...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0073par0038	You were tired yesterday, Zozani. You go rest.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0039	That's the way it is, Mr. President. According to the Civil Charter 63, it is a matter of discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0074par0040	If anyone wants to talk, they'll give it to you. They'll replace him with the one who's pulled out.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0075par0041	Now, you can demand this as a situation that requires a formal discussion. Sure, we'll open it, you can talk about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0042	Yes, we demand it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0075par0043	But, but, uh, just to keep you informed, I just said those words. If that doesn't satisfy you...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0067par0044	It's not satisfying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0075par0045	There you go. There you go. There you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0076par0046	In favor, in favor...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0077par0047	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0078par0048	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0079par0049	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0080par0050	Mr. Kubatt, against Mr. Kaplan, against Mr. Halaçoglu... What else?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0081par0052	I'll talk where it's empty.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0080par0053	Hamzacebi is in favor, Mr. Kaplan is against, Mr. Halaçoglu is against. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0082par0057	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have been promised to express my discussions in favor of the position of our President in the procedure hearing. Dear friends, the group proposals that we are currently discussing are essentially a procedure spoken on the basis of Article 63 of the Civil Code. So what's generally the procedure in the procedure debates here -- which is usually given two minutes, three minutes -- is that the group proposals are actually discussed on the basis of the 63th article, so the President can give at most to 4 people -- in fact, two people -- three minutes, two minutes, and it's a full-fledged pleasure of the presidency. But so far, in accordance with the general practices of the House, the group's proposals are given ten minutes, two against, two in favour. In Articles 60 and 61 of the Civil Charter, it has been determined how to make the commitment demands. Mr. President is promised to those who apply according to their request, and here, all of our friends know very well, sometimes a member of a political party is dictated.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0083par0059	If you don't want to talk, don't sign up. We're just saying that. Why do you interfere with the president's discretion? Don't put names on it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0082par0060	And then, at the request of our friends from the party who filed this appeal, I know, personally, that at least five times, our friends have passed on their rights to their friends from that group.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0083par0061	Good, that's good. Block the speeches, and then say: "This is what the Internal Charter says. " Don't block it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0082par0062	So this is a common subject. When a friend of ours withdrew his request, the friend who requested it, a friend of ours from the Republican People's Party, made this request, came forward and spoke. Besides, if you were so intent on talking about it, the second word in favor was empty, you could demand it and get it. You've made demands. After the vote, I don't think there's any need to waste the General Assembly's time on this with unnecessary discussion. There's nothing irregular about what our President is doing. This is in line with Articles 60, 61 of the Civil Code. Therefore, I'm in favor of the position of our presidency. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0084par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against you, Mr. Kaplan... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0085par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. This AK PARTY group has brought a security package with its confidence in the majority of votes, not talking to the Parliament to get it through. The vice president didn't get all the MPs to talk about it, he didn't get any questions, he didn't get any answers, we applied to the Court, they didn't answer, but if you think we're gonna leave it to you, you're wrong. Look, you take it, you block it, you don't talk. You're using it badly, just so you can get to the package quickly from here. Aren't you proud that we've removed EMASYA, the EMASIA? Do you realize you're replacing military epaulets with civilian epaulets yourself now? You make promises, you don't speak; the AK PARTI will replace the military epaulets. But you haven't picked out the color of your uniform yet; blue or orange; this is left.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0086par0071	Brown, brown!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0085par0072	Now, look, you've got the safety package. Who are you challenging, brother? Are you taking it out for the parallel, for us, for the Kurds, or for others?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0087par0073	Their enemy is the Turks, the Turks!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0085par0074	Look, you brought a package like that, you're going to withdraw it, you guys, you're going to call four parties to the Commission, we're going to fix what's best for this country. This is the only way. Now, anything can be expected of you. Look, isn't the President the commander in chief right now, fellas? Commander-in-chief. It comes out every day, says this package will pass. By the time he passes this package, he will have won the fourth battle. Look, one: I won the trip. It says. I won on December 17th-25th, he says. Then, here we are, winning in Operation Shah Firat. If this package passes, I also won this one. He'll say, he'll say, he's done it. Now, you know, there's a Parliamentary code for marshal's title. The commanders or commanders who won the battle of 2-3 squares are given the rank of marshal. In this, it is also given to officers, orgenerals among the Turkish Armed Forces, and only to Ataturk, in the history of the Parliament, and Fevzi Lightup. By God, after you finish this package, if you finish it like this, if you bring a law proposal tomorrow, let President Recep Tayyip Erdogan be named marshal. I wouldn't be surprised if you brought him a bill. I wouldn't be surprised.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0088par0077	Oh, don't remind me. He wants that now. Oh, boy!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0089par0078	Now look, they're gonna do some substance abuse.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0085par0079	The charge of substance, 132 will make 133, and you can put the marshal's bill in the package, and that's how you get this package out. You come out from behind him, and you perform a ceremony, and you do it in the palace with the horsemen, in the uniform of those sons of Dusakabin. Don't, don't. If you make a promise, we'll talk, and if you don't, let the groups discuss these rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, warn me again, we're asking you. That's why I made a promise against your attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0090par0084	Mr. President, you need to warn me about this. You need to warn the groups, he won't, he won't.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0091par0085	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0091par0087	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0088	Sir, Mr. Speaker, in a cynical manner towards the President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0093par0089	It's not sarcastic, it's in a real language. This package itself is cynical.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0090	...about the rank of marshal over statements that don't belong to him. It's an open taunt.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0094par0091	Don't you see?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0093par0092	Isn't that the commander-in-chief, fellas?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0093	He's our former president. I want word in that frame.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0095par0094	Yeah, well, he's right, he speaks sarcastically.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0096par0095	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0099	Mr. President, dear friends, a cynical language can be used from time to time, of course, but everyone in this country needs to be more or less concerned about the common symbols.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0097par0100	Who's the common symbol?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0101	You may have criticisms against Mr. Recep, and we know where they come from. Mr. Recep's successful performance, which began with the 2002 elections in politics and lasted 13 years, is your main concern, the main issue of the opposition, the rest is the story. Mr. Tayip has come, and there is no bread left for us. This is the epithelial of your anger and your anger, and all that you have said is the thesis of the work.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0098par0102	The thefts have increased, that's where the trouble is. Everything's being stolen, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0103	Speaking in such a cynical language over statements that do not belong to the President will only cause problems with the owner of that language, and I'm not saying anything to that. Yeah, we're here to discuss the internal security law, we think the Homeland Security law is safe for the country, but there's no way we're going to have a reasonable, rational discussion of the internal security law. It's definitely the opposition. Obstruction is blocked by a continuous course of force and action beyond the use of rights stemming from the Civil Code. No civil charter will give opposition to a declaration of rights over drafting laws. The Civil Code, of course, gives the opposition certain rights, but it basically regulates how the House works, not how it doesn't work. There's a very efficient debate about each of these substances here, but where all the materials finally arrive and the legislator's intent is to organize the work here, not not not not not not to work. Today, as in the past, Parliament faces a state of forced labor again. He's always talking about chores, guys, but they think about it after twelve o'clock at night. This approach, which leans on not running the House, is basically a chore for us. We want to discuss the law, yes, within the rules, you have group proposals, so let's discuss them, and let's go into the law, and you can say what you want to say, but besides the Civil Code, specific, intentional, as Mr. Zozani often applied, it prevents us from meeting the law, which is a chore for us. Today at twelve o'clock, you will probably start again, saying no to Angaria! But remember, it will be a chore for us now, and when the House is working, it is understood that it is a chore for you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0099par0106	We do it to prevent persecution, to prevent tyranny. Can't you figure it out yet?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0092par0107	But the meaning of this House, the reason you exist, is because you exist, not because you don't work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0100par0110	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0101par0111	Mr. President, the speaker picked on me by calling my name and the name of Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0100par0112	Excuse me, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0101par0113	He teased me with both our names. He said I've imposed a chore on the House. That's teasing, I want to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0100par0115	You?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0102par0116	For me, he spoke to the President in a derogatory manner. I'd like to express that I don't speak like that and what I really mean, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0103par0117	Where'd the marshal come from, Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0100par0118	Yes, your...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0104par0119	Mr. President is making an accusation against the opposition not to run the House. No congressman here has a purpose like that. We're in favor of negotiations in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Civil Code. If it's possible...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0100par0120	Yours is on the books, Mr. Tallie. I promise Mr. Zozani. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0105par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this House, there has always been a material reason for all the objections I have expressed here against the government's sanction of antidemocratic law. Take out one of them, and there is no financial response to that objection. Say, I'll give you that. Therefore, I don't impose on the House. I'm using my rights from the Civil Code to prevent this House from making the wrong law of the High Assembly. It's not a chore. This is not a Civil Charter that envisions a chore. This is the Civil Code, yes, a Civil Code prepared to regulate the legislature of the House, but you misunderstand its spirit. This Civil Code basically commands that parliament -- its power, its opposition -- work on compromise, to make the right laws. It may be that if the government imposes a challenge, some protections have been placed on this Civil Code, so that the opposition can defend itself against the imposition. Mr. Bostanci, I don't see how you can interpret it that way. Second important thing, sir, you have no right to block the right of the MPs to speak, you have no right. Look, the point is that you're having three conversations on the same motion, one on the side, two against, and we're not going to argue here. Isn't it? It's done. You come out, you talk for three minutes, you talk for 30 seconds. Did we object? We didn't, but go out and talk. 300-odd MPs sit here to tell the people of Turkey about their own problems. I'm sorry, Mr. Bostanci, but they're not here to put their hand on your sultan, and I'm protecting their law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0106par0127	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0107par0128	Thank you, thank you. No, no, no.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0105par0129	I'm protecting their rights, too. Now, you three or four people sitting here mortgage the will of all the MPs sitting here, and when it comes to it, you try to mortgage the will of the opposition parties, but you can't afford it, you can't afford it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0107par0130	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0105par0131	So, like today, if you mortgage the right to talk, we'll get out, that's how we'll object. You call this a chore or something, it's your choice, but we're using our rights from the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0108par0132	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0109par0135	Yes, Mr. Bostanci, about this Parliament and the practices of your group and the attitude of your vice presidents to violate the Civil Code, tomorrow at 14 p.m. I'm suing the European Court of Human Rights with a press conference. Prep's over, I'm applying tomorrow. Also, I've completed further studies on the violations of the Civil Code, and tomorrow I'll file a separate application to the Constitutional Court concerning the Civil Code. I mean, I'm sorry, but the majority of you have our rights here... and even the Faithful Yakut we complained about sat on the couch. There was no Ayþe Nur Bahçapılı, and he was to sit down. There were no scribes, and the scribes were seated.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0110par0137	Are we doing roll call?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0109par0138	Just because you have so many of you doesn't mean everything is as you say.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0111par0139	No, it's never been like that. You have practiced the Civil Law, and you have practiced it without reading it, without reading it. Otherwise, you wouldn't have been sitting there by mistake.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0109par0140	Look, the 13th Amendment was very clear, and I was complaining, and I came in, and I filed a petition that day, and I talked to Cemil Cicek, and I said, "Mr. President, I'm complaining, I want to tell you on the Court. Mr. Mumcu, you were all on the Court. Didn't opposition party lawmakers say that the chiefs of management were to come to the group, the MPs and Hasip Kaplan, who are the plaintiffs, to tell us here, why, what, what, what do they want? You denied that, too. Now, look, you'll deny everything, but Mr. Bostanci, Mr. President General Commander-in-Chief, is he not the head of the administration?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0112par0142	Say Tayyyıp Bey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0113par0143	Say Tayyıp Bey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0112par0144	Look, the Group Deputy President says "Tayip Bey" and the President doesn't say "President."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0114par0145	No, no, it's the head of the operation, isn't it? He's the commander in chief, isn't he, President? You say: 'Hassip Kaplan has come here, the President...' Glory be to Him! What's it to us to make fun of you? President Elazığ says this package will either pass or pass in the square! Who's he talking to? He calls it the legislature. Who's he talking to? The Terracotta people, they say to you, probably not to three opposition parties, they say to you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0115par0146	He's talking to you, you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0114par0147	And he said the same thing on the plane yesterday, from the plane. He said, "This package is too small."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0115par0148	He's talking to you, he'll tell us?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0114par0149	Now, is it within the President's duties to rule the will of this legislature and to rule the will of the lawmakers here when the law is passed in this legislature? So, what law, ethics, law, the Civil Code, does this rule fit into the Constitution? What parliamentary democracy can you fit into the universal rules of democracy? The President who mocks you, the President who mocks you, the President who employs you all as a chore even as you pass the law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0116par0151	No, I don't. Don't kid yourself, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0114par0152	None of you can say no, you're at the main stop, you're ready, get ready, get ready. First, examine yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0117par0154	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Lehte, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0118par0156	Mr. President, I think the ruling party agrees with what we said last time, so it's not responding.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0117par0157	We can't interfere with that, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0118par0158	Just for the record.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0119par0159	Sure, let's just say one sentence so they get three more words.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0117par0160	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0120par0163	Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. President for one thing, first of all, he carried out this request, without question, when asked to discuss the procedure, because Article 63 of the Civil Charter of the Civil Charter is in charge of fulfilling the request of the MP demanding a formal debate. So it's not to acknowledge that there's been a mistake in the way that Mr. President argues about the procedure, it's to allow everyone to express their views in a democratic way, in a way that everyone wants. Thank you so much for providing this opportunity. Dear friends, a police state bill proposal. What we're talking about right now is not internal security, but Homeland security is not anywhere near that offer. Therefore, to make this offer briefly, it would be more appropriate to call it the police state's legal proposal. The prime minister says this proposal will be legalised, and we say it will not be legalised. In this way, you may be trying to legalize this proposal on the basis of your majority power, but I'm giving you one last call from here: don't insist on it. Let's fix and subtract those provisions from this proposal, which allows the establishment of a police state in Turkey. Now, there's a government that's afraid of squares. He's afraid, he's terrified that there'll be another trip-like movement. He's afraid of squares, streets, everywhere. Therefore, no matter how you conduct your meeting and demonstration march, there is a provision here that will define each meeting and demonstration march as illegal. Look, you know what needs to be done, everyone has the right to have peaceful meetings and demonstrations without prior permission; that should be the main rule, and the rest is details. We can put it the other way around, everyone has the right to a non-violent, non-inflammatory, non-inflammatory meeting and a demonstration march. The Prime Minister says: "In all the countries of the European Union, we have these proposals." I tell him, "Look, I made two proposals in a summary of the ACHR decisions, and this is what we have in all the countries of the European Union. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In no European Union country, 183 people in eight years have never been killed by police bullets. Therefore, withdraw this arrangement that gives the police more authority, which makes the police, the judiciary, everyone political. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0121par0172	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Against Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0122par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to point out that I'm not against your attitude. Dear friends, these kinds of arguments, of course, also bring up and talk about certain issues. In fact, we've been saying from the very beginning: "Yes, but other than that, we call anything that restricts freedoms. " No. We call it the politicization of an armed police officer. So the best work you can do -- look, we've been arguing here for so long -- send it back to the Commission, in a week's time -- you say, "Come, let's talk about it." But first of all, there you are, refusing to accept the motions presented to you before, and here you are withdrawing those substances. So you've got something wrong. Someone dictates it to you, which you can't give up. Here, you see, there's something wrong, there's contradictions, and you're trying to make it go away. So, I'm going to say this again, so you pull it back to the Commission, get it handled properly, calmly, whatever's in the country's best interest. Mr. Kubat has just said that according to Article 63, group proposals... have been said. The 63rd article is, you know, procedural debates, group proposals, Article 19. So they don't have anything to do with them, we don't talk about them in that frame, we don't talk about group suggestions. In the meantime, there's been a mention of the President's Marshallship, but there's been a real move that's almost been given the title marshal by the press. But I've never seen a general lose land in history or a commander-in-chief get the title of marshal.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0123par0181	He'll be stripped of his rank.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0124par0182	Privates are made, demoted.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0122par0183	That's exactly what the President says: he is what Ankara is, and Solomon Shah is what he is. The attack on the shrine is considered to be an attack on Turkey; the steps are determined.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0123par0184	2014. Then he should have said something like that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0122par0185	So, you there, you bring in the God of Solomon Shah, you leave the land there, and you will be named marshal. That's not possible, of course. But on the other hand, you're the President and you're saying in the presidency that instead of working with all my might to do so, in the presence of the great Turkish nation and history, I swear on my honor and honor. And you're not doing it. You think about the rest. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0125par0188	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Congressmans, I've listened to you in this procedure debate you've opened, but I'd like to point out that there is nothing in the application of the President that violates the Civil Code. In accordance with both regulations and the Civil Code, the commitment demands come to the presidency, and in accordance with those order, the presidency gives its commitment demands, sir. If there's a compromise between parties, people withdraw their rights, pass their talks to other people, other lawmakers, and they let us know, we'll set the lines of speech on the presidential demands, sir. For him, our attitude continues this way. Now, I'm having the nationalist movement group read its proposal: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday (March 4th 2015) there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On March 3, 2015, international agreements issued by Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri and his friends to the presidency of the Turkish Republic of Turkey and 16 islands in the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean were proposed to be occupied by Greece on Wednesday (March 4th 2015) in our continental territory in which the isolated economic zone is remembered, to be held in violation of the rights and sovereignty of Turkey's Republic (now). On the other hand, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0126par0205	Mr. President, there are grave claims, findings and evidence that the international agreements and 16 islands in the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean, under the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey, were occupied by Greece. There are also numerous facts that Turkey's continental shelf and economic zone have been violated by Greece and the Greek Cypriot administration. The measures against Greece's rapes against Turkey's sovereignty are vital to the determination of the actions to be carried out, the necessary legal arrangements to be made. In connection with the issue, this parliamentary investigation of military, diplomatic, social, legal, economic and so on has been brought before the Grand Assembly to determine sanctions. So the problem is the matter of the country, and I would like to ask you specifically to direct your attention here. It's a historical event. There's no way to get past the situation by taking care of it. The land is occupied, invaded, and infected, and the situation feels the need to be exposed. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the claims that the 16 Turkish islands, which have been abandoned by London, 1923, Paris, and the State of the Republic of Turkey, have been occupied by Greece for eleven years, have been busy in 1913 London, 1923, and the Mediterranean. However, there has been no accurate and satisfactory explanation of this issue so far by AKP authorities and authorities. I'd like to briefly look at the physical and geopolitical state of some of the islands: one of them is Hursit Island. Hurshit Island is an island five times the size of Büyükada. The island of Sheep is right under the nose of İzmir, and its strategic importance is undisputable. In Lausanne, the island of Donkey is within the province of Aydın, which has sparked heated controversy. The islands of Fornoz, Nergizcik, Kalolimnoz, Goat, Clumsians, Koçbaba, Ardacık are Turkish islands in the Aegean Sea. Gavdos, Dhia, Dionisades, Gaidhouronisi, and Koufonisi in the Mediterranean are Turkish islands. We're talking about 16 islands. It's wrong to look at islands in terms of sheer size. Because according to marine and air law, six miles of land water and airspace around the islands are also based on those who own these islands. In addition to landwaters, there is the adjacent region, the continental shelf and the exclusive economic region. With 16 islands outside the sovereignty of Turkey, Greece's continental shelf has literally increased to 7,000km. According to the Treaty of Lausanne, Turkish islands are added to the Treaty of Lausanne No.2. Everything is so clear on the map and it's painted red under it. It appears that these islands are legally dominated by the Republic of Turkey, but today these islands are dominated by Greece. Dear lawmakers are also known to have been used in a manner that violates the rights and sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey by the sovereign economic zone of Greece and South Cyprus. Officials do not fly in the Mediterranean without our knowledge. Despite their statements, power has not taken military, legal, economic and diplomatic measures, guaranteeing Turkey's rights with international agreements has led to abolition by Greece and South Cyprus. The region's sovereignty has been abandoned by Greece, the Greek Cypriot administration and the initiative of other states and multinational companies that they have partnered with. On 17 December 2004, there are widespread claims that the AKP's power remains silent in the actual situation Greece created about the islands so that Turkey could get a start date from the European Union. Thus, Greece and South Cyprus, a member of the European Union, did not veto the start of negotiations between Turkey and the European Union. So, through some sort of silent diplomacy, the AKP allowed Greece to occupy the islands in exchange for Greece's failure to veto Turkey's entry into the EU and remained silent. Greece began construction operations in the Donkeys and Bulamaç Islands in October, November 2004, where it established a municipality, police and first aid service, raising a Greek flag, deploying armed soldiers, equipment and offensive boats. 16 islands in the Aegean are Hursit, Fornoz, Donkey, Nergizcik, Bulamaç, Kalolimnoz, Goat, Sakarcım, Koçbaba, Ardacık islands and Gavdos, Dhia, Dionisades, Gaidhouronisi and Koufonisi. In 2004, the Greek Armed Forces occupied 16 candidates belonging to the Republic of Turkey and one rock at a time. Prime Minister Erdogan did not give the Turkish Armed Forces instructions to prevent the invasion. Again, Greece has not even given Greece a note, notwithstanding the AKP's power, the ultimatum, to evacuate the islands. The AKP government, which remained silent in the occupation, received a date of negotiations from the European Union on 17 December 2004. So it's clearly expressed in diplomatic lobbys, where the date of the talks was purchased in exchange for 16 Turkish islands and a rock.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0127par0211	Do you believe that? It's not right, it's not right!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0126par0212	Dear MPs, as it is known, agreed to leave nine candidates in Ankara, Aegean and Mediterranean to Greece after World War I, under the Treaty of Lausanne, which was signed in 1923. The islands mentioned in that agreement have been known to have been in fact confiscated since 2004. If you don't believe me, we'll go to the islands.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0128par0214	Teacher, we don't believe.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0129par0215	That's not true.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0126par0216	I mean, you have your location and your status. Shame, shame! What am I saying? What are you talking about? There's something wrong with your soul, there's something wrong with your blood, there's something wrong with your head, I'm having trouble understanding it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0129par0217	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0130par0218	Please don't talk to me. Contact the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0126par0219	Dear MPs, AKP, Turkey...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0131par0220	People don't forgive that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0126par0221	People will ruin you. Who are you people? Who are you? People are here, people are here, people are here to protect people's interests, you're selling, you're running. Sit down! Figure it out and then talk!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0132par0222	Speak to the people, Hajji, speak to the people.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0133par0223	You talk to people, Hodja, they don't listen. What does the mindset that does not recognize the Constitution understand here?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0134par0224	You're dreaming, you're dreaming. It's nothing more than a dream.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0225	See, the AKP does not defend the national interests of Turkey, its territory, its borders and its honor. And you're showing an example of this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0136par0226	It doesn't look good, it doesn't look good.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0227	When U.S. forces put a bag over the Turkish soldier's head, will you give a note to the U.S.? That's not a note of music. You're the one who said it. The AKP, who claimed to be a quarterback in the Middle East, has endured the incident of the Turkish plane that Syria has dropped, and you are not ashamed. President Erdogan of the time, who called Israel "one minute," had not been able to answer for the Turkish citizens whom Israel had slaughtered at the Blue Marmara. The AKP's power, as of today, blew up Sulejman Shah Temple, which is Turkish territory with international agreements and is under Turkish rule. The AKP mentality that carried the soil has left the subterranean sovereignty of ISIS and YPG elements. Justice and Development Party (AKP) officials shamelessly call it a victory. Shame, shame! By international agreements, a land belonging to Turkey has been abandoned, and instead, in the north, a piece of land that does not legally belong to Turkey has been occupied. The AKP maintains a cowardly, passive and wimpy power that does not defend Turkey's interests in front of history and the nation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0137par0228	Teacher, the shrine is where the land is.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0229	Turkey's sovereignty and territorial integrity are under threat during the AKP ruling period. The situation is severe, serious and urgent. There will be no real protection and defence of Turkey's borders without getting rid of the AKP.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0138par0230	People are laughing at you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0139par0231	People are laughing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0232	I demand that all lawmakers stand down in front of history and support this Parliament's research to determine military, diplomatic, social, legal, economic measures and investments regarding the situation of the 16 occupied islands of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0138par0233	People don't believe it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0234	I expect this Parliamentary research to be supported by AKP MPs under the nicknames of New Turkey by mobilising their national sensibilities, otherwise you will be held accountable for the occupation of the land, I tell you. Remember, it is a right to sink a country that has no owner in ancient Turkey. There were poets who said, "This country will not sink if you have it!"; there were yellow Mujahideen who said, "The love of the country is faith." There was a concept in ancient Turkey that died for it; and there were Mehmetçiks who said, "My real mother is my mother." There were mothers who said, "The one who did not have a mother of old Turkey does not have a mother."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0140par0236	You're stuck in the time tunnel, in the time tunnel.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0237	We are still with the Turkish nation in this Turkey. That's where you're going to find out!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0141par0238	Dream, dream!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0135par0239	You're ignorant and you're trying to cover up this national issue with words and demagogy!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0141par0241	People don't believe you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0142par0242	In the time tunnel, in the time tunnel...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0141par0243	People don't believe it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0143par0244	I condemn you, I condemn you five times!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0144par0246	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0145par0247	They don't understand, they don't understand!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0146par0248	People don't believe you, they don't believe you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0147par0250	You're the liar.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0148par0251	Calm down, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0146par0252	People don't believe it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0147par0253	You're a Titanic disaster from head to toe! Don't you ever talk to the guy in charge of picking on me!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0149par0254	They don't understand, it's not about the country, it's about the money, it's about the money!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0150par0255	You're stuck in the time tunnel, stuck in the time tunnel.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0152par0257	Calm down, please. I'll listen to Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0258	Mr. Speaker, is there a problem with your blood while he continues his words? He has made a public insult to our group by saying, "Is there a problem with your blood?"
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0152par0259	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0263	Mr. President, dear friends, it's not appropriate to speak or interfere when a speaker is actually speaking his mind on the stand, and I'm afraid everyone is doing it in our House. In fact, when a friend is talking here, he objects to being yelled at, and as soon as he sits down, he starts talking, which is interesting.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0153par0264	It's the country.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0265	But even if a friend is spoken of, it's not right for a speaker here to act in his own speech, turn his tongue into a sword with such anger, to engage in random slaughter -- in the abstract sense -- to do so. Now, Mr. Ozcan, when you talk about the blood issue, the idea that connects blood to people's behavior, their ideas is really fascism in the 19th century.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0153par0267	Look at that, it's metaphor, metaphor.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0268	In Turkey's recent history, friends. For us, the question of Turkishism is not only a matter of culture but also a matter of blood. There are political figures who have been affected by the Nazi thinking of the time.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0154par0269	Tell me about the islands, is they occupied or not?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0270	Of course, I haven't come across any rational understanding, assessment of this bond as a link between blood and people's political opinion, their love for the country, their sensitivity to the country, but such deviations exist in history, with a racist understanding of the world over blood. For example, there is a movement that is rising in the 19th century, as well as in the name of (eugenics). Eugenism is an approach that corresponds to social Darwinism, and they form ties with blood and race. Now, of course, our friend Ozcan is a friend of ours, who's basically well-intentioned, sympathetic, who has shared the common sympathy of the House, but sometimes, I imagine, beyond what he means, I'd like to take that as an assessment, because I feel that in this House, a mind that connects blood and people's love of the country would not be appropriate, and I don't expect anything like that from Mr. Ozcan. I guess I'd think it'd be an angry, out-of-the-box meaning.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0155par0272	I'm sure he'll fix it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0151par0273	I also don't know much about reading from the text, it's emotional responses and not reading. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0156par0276	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0156par0278	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0279	Now, by deflecting my blood metaphor, he associated it with racism, brought it to me, almost to Darwin, and Lamarc, and pulled it away from him. I want to answer that, that's not the point.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0156par0280	Please don't allow any more bullying. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0283	Now, Mr. Bostanci, in fact...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0158par0284	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0285	Look, it started there again, it started there.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0159par0286	Tell me about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0287	Look, now, we need to agree on something. There's a serious claim here, and I say 16 islands have been occupied. 16 islands are occupied, so instead of beating me up over there, say, "Friends, let's set up a commission, let's go pay a visit to these islands. Whether it's really occupied or not, let the Secretary of State respond, let the Prime Minister respond. The Prime Minister gives vague answers, gives indirect answers, as if in a manner of accepting the issue. Tell him to come up with this, get out of there with him, as a staff pitcher... This country belongs to all of us. You love this land as much as I do, and you have to love it. There's no way to explain it. So, now, based on a metaphor that's metaphorically made here, it's not really right for Naci Bostancı to take on international meaning, draw a racist meaning, judge over it once, because he already knows what I've written about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0159par0289	So I said, "He's overstepped his bounds."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0290	He's doing a show here, in front of the TVs, because he deliberately twisted it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0160par0291	Are you fixing it or not, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0292	Let me make it very clear that the issue of blood was used as a metaphor, or it's not a direct case of blood, bone, skull. That's what I said. He already knows that, and he knows that I said it, but he's pretending not to know that he's going to talk here, so he's doing this kind of evaluation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0161par0293	Make it love. I said: "Aggressive has exceeded his intent in anger."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0294	Let me make this very clear today: look, I don't compromise on national issues, no matter who comes in. When it comes to the country, when it comes to honor, there's no compromise. Let's give it 10 percent off. You say, let's give it 20 percent off.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0162par0295	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0296	... Let's give up the gold of Solomon's Shah Temple, we'll lose it, we'll save it. You say, "You come and invade another place."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0162par0297	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0298	The land is ours with international agreements. Is it your property that you have brought as a slum now, where you have placed Solomon Shah?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0163par0299	You can't call it a slum, Hajji. It's a shrine.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0162par0300	I don't think the intruders...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0301	No, I didn't... Of course you have, someone else's land. It is our original land, and the place of Solomon Shah is our land. You were supposed to come out of there with a deal.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0164par0303	Our real land is Central Asia, Ozcan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0304	It is replaced by an international agreement with an international agreement. Now I'll tell you again, you'll say: "This is what he says... What, have you no sense, my friends? On one hand, there's an international agreement, and on the other hand, you're creating a one-sided, actual, multitasking situation. Is that a thing? So they're not related. You guys need to learn a lesson about this. You need to shake yourself up about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0165par0307	Sir, did you read the deal?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0166par0308	Wherever the shrine is, it's land.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0157par0309	I salute the House.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0167par0311	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0167par0313	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0314	Mr. Bostanci has directly accused our party of racism, of racism, of our party directly, so I would like to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0167par0315	I couldn't quite do it, did he say that about the party?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0316	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0167par0317	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, now, of course, Mr. Naci has come up here, tried to be a philosopher again, tried to do literature, but he's very good at...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0169par0321	That's not a bad thing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0170par0322	He said nice things.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0323	Sure, he'll do the literature, but he'll do the literature, and he'll know what he means and his goals. Now, the motion presented to them here says that 16 Turkish islands were occupied by Greeks, and he didn't say a word about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0170par0325	He made a promise of bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0326	Maybe not, but since he's up here, he should've told me about him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0170par0327	No, we have speakers, speakers to brief us.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0328	Because, you know, what he says is, blood is actually measured by whether or not it's based on national values, or whether it's Rh positive A or negative or not. But if you have national emotions, you will investigate whether 16 of your islands have been invaded and you will give your answer accordingly. Is that more important, or is that someone's promise about blood, but it's not about purpose? Of course they can't feel it here, we know that because the Prime Minister for Solomon Shah Turbage, the current Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, said as he was: "This is Turkish soil, we took every precaution for his safety, no one tries to test our patience, so the test of patience is to bomb the shrine there, which belongs only to Süleyman Shahahahahan, and preserve it within the territory of the PyD. Isn't that Turkish soil, leaving Turkish soil? If you left Turkish soil there, of course you'd be insensitive to your 16 occupied islands. In fact, your first lost land is not the land of Solomon Shah, but the international land, which is given to you, the land which the whole world accepts. But you must bring only the ark of Solomon Shah, even if it is in his bones, and I will tell you this: for some say, Nahash. Some say, "There is no body, and the people who don't know what the body is, can say this, and the people who have spoken to me.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0171par0331	▪ It's called bone.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0168par0332	But I'll tell you this: it's called the bone, it's brought with its bones, but it's not the ark brought from there and it's the bones in it, it's your land, as Hatay was bound to you in 1938. Therefore, if you do not maintain it, you are also insensitive to 16 islands. Blood means to feel it there, to have that culture, to have national emotions, to have national values. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0172par0335	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Against the proposal, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0173par0337	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0172par0338	Mr. Turkoglu, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0173par0339	Mr. President, while there are extracurricular talks going on here, they're pre-empted to you, the concerned ministers are even present at government levels to respond to non-responsive conversations, and when they are needed, with your permission, they answer 20 minutes, off the agenda. Today, 16 Turkish islands, 16 islands within the territory of the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey, are referred to by Greece, and such a research motion is given, and we do not know what the government thinks about this, what the real situation is, what the international agreements are showing, because government representatives are not in the ranks of the government. So I'd like to share with you and report that I resent the fact that these lines are empty on such a serious and important matter. Thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0172par0341	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak will speak against you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been sworn in against a parliamentary inquiry motion by the National Movement Party, and I salute your grand delegation. Between our country and Greece, there is a series of problems in the Aegean Sea, which are connected and directly affecting our country's basic rights and interests. These can be summarized as the width of the landwaters, the determination of the continental shelf, the identification of the sea borders, the status of islands, islands and cliffs that have not been left to Greece by international agreements, the width of the airspace, the FIR, the flight information area, the international arms of the eastern Aegean islands. There are various dialogue channels and measures between Greece and our country regarding the Aegean problems. As noted above, these problems include the ownership of some islands and cliffs in the Aegean, and the lack of sea borders between Turkey and Greece, which are determined by a valid international agreement. Basic documents on the ownership of the Aegean Islands include 1923 Lausanne and 1947 Paris Peace Accords. These agreements contain detailed and diverse provisions concerning the sovereignty and disarmament of the islands. With this reputation, the problem is a legal issue related to the interpretation of the relevant articles of Lausanne and the Paris Accords, and has been on the agenda for many years. As it is known, the Aegean issues are handled in all aspects within the framework of current dialogue channels between us and Greece. Our country desires that all of these problems be resolved through dialogue, in accordance with justice and the basic rights and interests of our country. No change has been made in our policy since the first moment these problems began, not just during our government's time, followed by the solution to the Aegean problems. All these issues are also discussed by the top Greek parties within the framework of the high-level council of co-operation with Greece during the prime minister's term. With this understanding, our government also considers the continuation of dialogue channels with the newly elected Greek government. The goal here is to find solutions to the Aegean problems through dialogue, in accordance with our rights, in accordance with our national interests, and on the basis of international law. In this context, there should be no doubt that our rights are protected. The issue of the continental shelf in the eastern Mediterranean, and the issue of oil, natural gas exploration, is that the Greek Cypriot administration launched a unilateral economic zone limitation agreement in 2003...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0351	It is not unilateral, Ottoman, it is done with another country; it is done with Lebanon, with Egypt.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0352	...as an additional source of tension in the region. As of 2003, our government has ordered the unilateral activities of the Greek Cypriot administration...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0353	It's not a one-sided exclusive economic zone deal. Osman, you don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0354	...the administration has taken necessary steps, and our rights to our continental territory in the region have been noted, and our country has been denied any legal rights in any way. The Greek administration has not limited its activities to limited agreements, but the Greek Cypriot side has ignored the rights of Turkish Cypriots and has conducted seismic research and drilling in recent years. Both our country and Turkish Cypriots have made necessary attempts to ensure their rights and powers on natural resources in the region, and our Foreign Ministry has informed our public on time with its statements. In this framework, I want to make it clear that Turkey's rights to the continental shelf in the region have been taken into account by the United Nations. The unilateral limitation agreements our country objects to are not subject to a legal outcome in our country and the violation of our rights in our continental territory.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0355	Yeah, they violated it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0356	In addition to the legal steps taken by our side, all measures have been taken to protect our rights in the region.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0357	What did you do?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0358	In our country's continental shelf, there is no other country's activity to search for oil, natural gas, and extract it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0359	Those exclusive economic zones aren't in your continent range!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0360	As it has been so far, such progress will no longer be allowed. An active and thorough study is being carried out by our naval elements in the region to identify any possible violations of our continental field. As I stressed in the beginning, our rights to our continental territory have been taken into account by the United Nations.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0175par0362	Come on, I'll tell you how that story works.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0363	This frame first reported to the United Nations on March 2, 2004, and finally, with notes sent to the United Nations on March 12, 2013, the continent's outer borders on the eastern Mediterranean areas of our country were reported to the United Nations. Within these limits, no country is allowed to seek oil, natural gas or any other activity against our economic interests, but when needed, the appropriate warnings are made through diplomatic means. Naturally, rights and interests of the Turkish Cypriot side are also at stake in the region, not just our country's. In this regard, the Turkish Cypriot side has been given all kinds of support and will continue to be given under international law. All measures have been taken by our government to support the activities of the Turkish Cypriot entity in 12 parts of the island, which the Greek side has declared unilaterally again, given licenses to various foreign companies. As you know, the Greek Cypriot side has issued licenses to seek out the Turkish Cypriot oil anonymous Partnership in the south of the island, as the Turkish Cypriot side has ignored the rights of the Turkish Cypriots, while a borderline agreement between our country and the Turkish Cypriot Republic has been signed. In preparation for talks on the start of a solution process on the island, the Greek side has been urged to continue its unilateral activities, as well as our government's international talks, to encourage the Greek side to use its energy for resolution. The Greek side continues its activities without a break, with the strength it finds as an EU member. In response to this, our government -- as I have just stated -- is fully supported by the activities of the Turkish Cypriot side. In this framework, the Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha Ship, owned by the Turkish Petroleum Association, carried out seismic research activities around the island of Cyprus, under licenses given to TPAO by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0176par0368	The guy took the gas out, and you're still doing research.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0174par0369	Thus, the rights and interests of our country and the people of Turkish Cypriots have been preserved in the areas of the Turkish Cypriots' licenses, and in the surrounding areas of our continental territory in the region. In a nutshell, our international rights and interests from international law, especially our continental territory in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, are protected and all kinds of measures related to the invasive steps that may be taken by third parties are being co-operated with all of our institutions. I say I'm against the Parliament's motion to investigate the National Movement Party, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0177par0373	Thank you, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0178par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0177par0375	Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0178par0376	Mr. President, the speaker confirmed what we said and sat there. Now, I'm asking you from here: 16 islands on the island are marked and disputed. These are the islands of Turkey, not the designated controversial islands, but Turkey. On these islands were Greek armed forces and Greek flags. It has a church on it, and there are Greeks who do all kinds of things. You're going to talk about it, and you're going to talk about it, and you're going to generalize it, and you're going to reduce it, and our interests in this area are protected, and you're going to avoid the problem.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0179par0378	Mr. President, Mr. Janitori can't decide who tells what.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0178par0379	In this regard, I would like to address the Turkish people from here: it seems that our islands in this region are under Greek occupation, and the AKP condones it and does not go against it. I'm just saying that for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0180par0381	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. It's on the record, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0181par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0180par0384	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0181par0385	Mr. President, just for the record. Now, they're giving the State Department a piece that they're putting in their hands, but look, there's nothing wrong with the Department of Defense. The State Department says there's some problems with the islands in their written question motions. I now have two maps published by the British. One before the invasion of 16 islands, one after the invasion. We're giving our opening to the international seas at the first, but unfortunately they're closed on the map that was occupied the second time. You're trying to avoid this when you're supposed to be getting serious considerations. Look, it's not a political issue, it's a political issue.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0182par0387	If you're serious, there's no time for a month, you won't bring it now. Where were you? Is there a two-month working period?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0181par0388	You've done a lot of work on the Cardacic reefs of 16 islands. I've run projects on controversial islands. But I repeat, even on the Cardac rocks, the Greek flag is flying now, the Greek flag is flying on the donkey islands. I'm telling you something. We will examine it at least. It was enough to say.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0182par0389	Is it appropriate to exploit a national matter like this?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0183par0390	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. In his favour, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0182par0393	Even if there's a commission, there's time, what were you thinking so far? There's not a month! The House is closing in a month!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0184par0394	We've been singing for years. Here are your ministers' answers.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0185par0395	Is this the choice or the choice?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0182par0396	Cancel the election?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0185par0397	That goes on.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0186par0398	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of the MHP Group, Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri is discussing the issue of 16 islands occupied by Greece in the Aegean and the Mediterranean, under Articles 98 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of TBM, which stipulates the opening of Parliament's investigation. Deputies such as Hurshit, Fornoz, Donkey, Nergizcik, Bulamaç, Kalolimnoz, Goat, Sakarcı, Koçbaba and Ardacık are under the occupation of Greece since 2004; Mediterranean de Gavros, Dhia, Dionisades, Gaidhoronisi and Koufonisi. The status of these islands has been set in 1913 London, 1920 Sevr, 1923 Lauzan and 1947 Paris Treaty and the Sufera Conference. One of the basic concepts here is the word "pleasure" with the word "connected." Sometimes the word "connected" is used in agreements, and sometimes the word "finished" is used in terms of agreements. That's where most of the conflict comes from. On the undeclared islands, the island, islands and rocks that Greece did not occupy after the Balkan War, and Turkey, which is the successor of the Ottomans on the islands next to them, continues. However, when Greece invaded the Kardak islands, you know, at that time, our glorious commandos took action, the press went up to East Kardak island and planted a moon-star al flag. Then there was a military action, Washington stepped in and Washington restored it to the old status quo. The incident caused by the Figen Akat boat -- a small merchant ship -- to sit on cliffs and to reject Greek rescue ships' rescue activity, to mount tensions over Turkish ships' rescue activity. Later, the Greek governor raised a flag on the island of West Kardak, and Turkish newsmen raised a flag on East Kardak. Since 2004, as Greece has been taking steps, Turkey has withdrawn step by step. The government of the AKP, who is insensitive to national matters, abandon the islands, get rid of the shrine, get rid of the stone. Despite the precondition for disarmament, Greece has armed all islands. According to contracts, only local military troops should be trained and the entire country should have proportionate police and gendarme forces, while these borders have been crossed, bases have been established. The desertion of the islands, the airspace, the FIR line, is a problem; it can cause serious problems in terms of landwater; it can lead to serious problems in terms of travel; it can lead to problems in terms of not openings; it can affect tourism activities. He expects those who are insensitive to the subject to be charged with treason. The former Minister of Foreign Affairs, who says, "The borders are our honor. No one dares to test our power." Ahmet Davutoglu said, "The ships carrying the Turkish flag in the international waters are Turkish land." Where is the Prime Minister who made up the song? Mr. Erkan Akçay has also said that Mr. Osman Love Bak, who has just read the bulletin about the islands and the Mentesh Islands -- we have seen our friend Ahmet Davutoglu as Foreign Minister -- answers: There are a series of issues between our country and Greece concerning the Aegean Sea. All of these problems are addressed by this country within the framework of existing dialogue channels. Our country desires permanent solutions, in accordance with all these problems, in accordance with justice, and in regard to the basic rights and interests of our country. Greece has not been given a single note in 11 years because of the islands it has armed against agreements and not enough to occupy. As with Syria, as with Iraq, what note is the chief resident of the illegal palace? He has an understanding of music notes? It is considered a victory to move the ecdade bones of the land of the land to zero points on the border at the Solomon Shah Temple, 37km away. It's unrecognizable to occupy another country's land at another point without an international agreement. Is the AKP government carrying the shrine, the bones in the shrine, also considering carrying these islands and records?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0187par0407	Don't disrespect Solomon Shah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0188par0408	What bone are you talking about? What a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0186par0409	Are the ships of Erdogan's sons big enough to carry these islands? How many dwts or croston ships can carry this island, is it calculated? Land is real estate, land is immovable. The concept that soil can be moved is a new invention. The Aegean islands are an extension of Anatolia, unforgettable, not allowed to be armed. Dear MPs, the AKP government, whose intentions are unknown, has battered the strong army, distributed air and sea power, left no captain, captain, commodore in the air, no air, no air, no air, no air. Governments that make their army miserable can't do what they say, what they say, what they say, what they say. Let no one test our strength in that way. Those who say, "Let them keep the strong army. " It is known how the navy, the air force, the ground forces were destroyed. Neither the President nor the Prime Minister nor the Foreign Minister has the right to harm our national interests and honor. Your suffering has increased, as well as your injustice. Those who increase their persecution are quick to go. Those who can't protect national interests will leave soon. You won't be able to protect national interests, but you will ban democratic rights and demonstrations with heavy sanctions. And then you're going to say, "We have a very busy day, we're talking about an internal security package, and we don't want it to be on the agenda." You've kept the House busy for days, you've put the House into heavy spending, you've put the House staff through heavy labor, you've disregarded international working rules, health rules. Such severe negligence and imperfection has never been seen in any government. Those who are unable to bear their duty to their country and to their nation, their departure is near. I pay tribute to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0189par0414	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0190par0418	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love. A general proposal has been made for the invasion of Greece of the Aegean Sea and 16 islands in the Republic of Turkey, which are dominated by the state of the Republic of Turkey, and a general proposal for the use of the exclusive economic zone in the regions of which it is remembered by Greece and the administration of southern Cyprus to violate the rights and sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey. This was answered by Osman Love Bey. I'm also saying that we don't find it very elegant for our congressman to consider the speech of a fellow MP as a publicist.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0191par0420	Why? It's all in here word for word. Mr. Recep Special, it's all in here word for word.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0190par0421	A friend of ours has given a very valuable, very valuable speech. The egg mold is on the back of the AK PARTY; it cannot be ruled by the nation, by speaking with a number of street mouths like you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0191par0424	You dropped the mold!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0192par0425	You've got that mouth!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0190par0426	We have to take these jobs in diplomatic language, diplomatic style. If we go out of diplomatic language and out of diplomatic language like that to everyone, Turkey will become unmanageable. We know what we're doing, in what way we're protecting our right, our law, everything we need to protect in the international field.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0193par0427	Swear!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0190par0428	We also have rights related to naval law, international contracts, contracting for the continent. I've increased the territory of a single-sided country, and by saying "Ooh, the continent is not increased. " As for me, as for the king of Solomon, we must come here and take it as an insult to the great man who entrusted us with the parable of the bones, a place where all of us should be protected, respected, and brought as a body. I suppose Ali Haydar will answer, I'll tell him one more thing to answer, and he'll answer. A few moments ago, those in distress are quick to go. In his weakness, he was not even nominated by Isparta. I wish you all the best, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0194par0433	Thank you, Mr. Special. [[Noises]] Please, you're coming to the General Assembly. You're welcome. If you'll be quiet, I'll hear Mr. Öner. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0195par0437	Sir, Mr. Special said I was talking to the street mouth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0194par0438	Please, please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0195par0439	He said I was talking in the street. I think as a member of the Republic of Turkey, I speak in line with the identity of a member of parliament. I'd like a word from you on the collusion.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0196par0440	He's on the books, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0194par0441	Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0195par0444	Mr. President, we are very grateful to Recep Special Party's candidate for Isparta MP, the 24th Prime Minister of that period, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Thanks to him, the Republican People's Party in Isparta came from 9 per cent to 22.86 per cent. Once again, we thank you. Recep gets teased once in a while, and then he gets his answer, and then he says, "I'm not going to mess with my governor." Then he forgets, and then he says something again, and then he gets his answer back.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0197par0446	Are you a goner, Governor?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0195par0447	Mr. Recep Special knows who carries the street mouth and who doesn't carry the street mouth, and all the Ispartans, including Mr. Süzyya Sadi Bilç. I've never seen you in a serious position once. Aziz MPs, has anyone ever seen Recep Special once in a serious manner? Oh, how illegitimate you are! How illegitimate of you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0198par0449	Congressmans, Mr. Öner, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0195par0450	To call such an illegitimate man seriously ill-advised is to say ill-advised.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0199par0452	Let's vote, Governor.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0198par0453	Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0200par0454	He's more serious than you. It's definitely more serious than you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0201par0455	It's coming, that I'm not running again in Isparta.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0198par0456	Let's be quiet.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0200par0457	You have solidified the location of Recep Special.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0202par0458	Were you nominated in Isparta?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0459	Recep's Special has called himself Mr. Bay. I merely carried out the duties of the Republican People's Party's Central Decision Board, the Party's Assembly and my chairman-in-chief last semester. I performed that mission with honor. (CHEERING) Even Brent Arinc was confused. Where's that original weight of ours, our Deputy Prime Minister? How does the Republican People's Party become the 2nd party in a conservative place, like Allah Allah, Isparta, when it comes to Isparta? How does the Republican People's Party go from 9 to 22.86 per cent?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0202par0460	Then you should have kept going.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0461	I left you the square, let's see, you won't even be nominated.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0202par0462	Isparta wants you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0463	God willing, we'll still be here, but I don't know where you'll be. Friends, for 23 months I was governor of Isparta. We have reached every inch of Isparta. And the Ispartans were mighty, and did not withhold their kindness.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0202par0465	You've done great service to Isparta.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0466	In those 23 months, I didn't see Mr. Recep in Isparta once. We ran into each other at the election office in Atabey. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Let him say lie. Let him be good. Let him be good. Yeah, just like that. Friends, let's not talk nonsense, but God does not love those who talk nonsense and those who lie around.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0204par0471	Isparta wants you, Isparta.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0472	Recep has made other mistakes in private, and I'm ashamed to say.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0205par0473	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0203par0474	I pay tribute to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0206par0476	Isparta misses you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0207par0477	Thank you, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0208par0478	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0207par0479	Congressmans, please be quiet. Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0208par0481	They said we were talking in the street, so I'd like to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0207par0482	How did he say it?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0209par0483	He didn't tell you, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0210par0484	I told the speaker, I didn't tell him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0211par0485	He didn't say that to you, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0210par0486	I told Mr. Haydar, and he answered.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0212par0487	You didn't tell us?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0210par0488	No, no, not you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0213par0489	Now, please...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0212par0490	Okay, Mr. President, he didn't say anything about us, he apologized. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0213par0495	All right, then. Now, I'd like to propose the National Party of Action...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0212par0497	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit02spe0213par0498	I'm going to present it to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, there are sufficient decisions, the National Movement Party Group proposal has not been accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0213par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday/3/2015 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. It has been suggested that the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly's Council of Turkey's 4/3/2015 General Assembly shall be held on Wednesday (June 15th) of the General Assembly's 4/3/2015 Council (now) meeting, which was given in the part of the National Assembly's agenda to investigate and determine the measures in which pollution in Lotus Tea should be taken. In favor of the proposal, Bursa MP Ilhan Demiröz. [[A round of applause from CHP, AK PARTY and MHP]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0214par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our esteemed MPs, the motion to investigate the pollution of Lotus Tea. I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us in front of their televisions with respect and love. Bursa () is the fourth largest province of Turkey, the capital of the South Marmara Region, and is the capital of Turkey. In recent years, there have been significant increase in populations due to migrations to Bursa. In 1927, our population was more than 2 million 700,000 in 2014. This unscheduled caused the fast urban and industrial construction of the Plain of Bursa, causing various wastes to be contaminated by the destruction of Lotus Tea and the destruction of its environment. Dear MPs, I'd like to brief you on Lotus Tea. Lotus Tea is one of the major streams of the Marmara region. On the southern slopes of Uludağ, the 900 - mile - tall Lotus Tea comes out of the two caves at the height of 850m. In the beginning, it's called the Aras Water. As the water flows in the western direction, it is joined by various arms and named after the lotus. The average water volume is 458 million cubic meters per year. The blistering basin is 680 square kilometers, and the average debi per year is 16.77 cubic meters per second. It contributes to the city's drinking water through the Borner Dam. After watering the Plains of Bursa, it takes the streams around it, and the brooks around it, and it reaches Lake Uluabat. Later, it merges with the Tea of Susurity, and pours from Karacabey Strait to the Sea of Marmara. He also named our district of Lotus Tea, but I would like to point out immediately that although Lotus Tea is a tea where fish are held, picnics are held around it and many plants and animals live around it, come and see that it has been very polluted in recent years. This tea provides shelter and passage even to storks on the migration road. Its lateral limbs are mainly contaminated with industrial and domestic waste. The Chamber of Chemical Engineers of the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures has had the Bureau of Chemical Engineers run an analysis and the analysis results include friends, valued lawmakers, three times more than legal limits, solid matter, oil and gres, 5 times more color and 8 times more sulfur. So, what does that mean? These heavy metals cause the soil to build up and build up in the upper part of the soil. It is evident that if this continues, it will harm both humans and the living creatures there years later. I would like to underline that more iron, mangan, zinc, copper, nickel, chromium, and lead deposits were found in the Plain, Lotus Tea, and Ayvalite Creek. Dear lawmakers, the goal of the Lotus Tea research motion is to all of us to contribute to preventing this pollution. Because the measures along the Lotus Tea route are disturbing to some people and organizations. For example, a governor who was interested in Lotus Tea was taken to the centre, while another governor quickly got involved, but then quickly got away from it. If you ask the mayor of the city, my friends, he's given me, like, eight years to clean up industrial facilities on the plain. Then what did the Bursans do? He's given up on power. This tea needs to be cleaned. At that time, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, the EKODER Karacabey Inkaya Villages Solidarity Association, the Mudanya People's Assembly, began the campaign "Nutser Tea Clean," which flowed into the Sea of Marmara by a platform of locals and fishermen. In this regard, all NGOs, especially our women, have supported it. ▪ What can we do? If we want to bring his statement to you immediately... An emergency action plan must be devised in order to preserve the natural wealth of Lotus Tea, which is born within the borders of our province, and to be properly transmitted to future generations. Precautive measures must be taken against the threat of serious construction and development. The inventory of all structures that have caused the contamination of Lotus Tea will have to be taken and the necessary measures will be taken. Waste from industrial facilities needs to be detected and preventive measures. Wastewater from hotel businesses operating in the Uludağ hotel area and public social facilities must be detected and the necessary measures must be taken. The necessary measures must be taken and assessed on the rehabilitation of Lotus Tea and its flanks. To prevent environmental pollution, to protect plant and animal assets, to make healthy irrigation on agricultural land, to preserve our indispensable water supply, these games on Lotus Tea must be stopped. We need to take every precaution on these things. And on this subject, I invite all authorities from the Turkish Grand National Assembly to do their duty. I also remind the city and its people of their responsibilities to do their duty. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd just like to go over the issues of heavy metal in the field of researching cancer scans. Dear lawmakers, while offering information on Lotus Tea, I would like to brief you on two things that are happening in our Burma these days. One of them, because of the overheating in Georgia and Kestel Plains, is flooded with agricultural fields, pear gardens, but unfortunately, the government has done nothing but watch the relevant Ministry, and has made no effort to clear the drainage channels or open them. Karacabey and Mustafakemalpaşa are now 100,000 acres of land under water, and 300,000 acres of agricultural land have become clay, which is inadvertent. Because of the rains, the harvest of tomatoes and corn continued until the end of December, while some crops remained in the field. Why am I saying this? In light of the information we've received from the agricultural chamber authorities, I'd like to say that the infrastructure of these areas can be done at very little expense, with the drainage channels opened and cleaned, so that millions of damage will be removed every year. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have this motion -- here we have friends from the Lordship Congress -- and I think we're all going to take care of it together. Therefore, there is no chance that this will be resolved by local authorities or governorships because when you touch this issue, you disturb a lot of people around you, as I mentioned at the beginning. In this regard, I know that our motion is that I see my friends in the front row, the members of the scholarship, who will support us, and you will support us, and together with the emergency action plan, we will have both cleaned and saved Bursa Nilifer Tea in this way. What do we say, fellas? I want Lotus Tea to flow as a river, not a poison, and I want your support, and I offer you my greetings and respects, as I offer you all respect and love. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0215par0037	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Against him, Lord Necati Özensoy. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0041	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the Republican People's Party to investigate Lotus Tea. I salute you all. It is a very special city, where God has blessed it with all its blessings. When we look at it, what we can think of in nature is a city with the Uldağ, the Marmara Sea, the Uluabat and the Iznik Lakes, where the streams meet, with the Lotus Tea, and with its plains, where indeed Allah has blessed all the blessings of Allah, and according to a rumor, the Hizir Aleyhissalam dropped the green bag. Of course, I'm here as someone who remembers all these beauties in the past -- we age -- that the greens were abundant and that the lotus tea was swimming and the fish were hunted and the fish were eaten. We swam in the rivers that reached, in the lotus tea, which went all the way to Karacabey. Again, as mentioned earlier, we all ate carp and even literature that were in the Inkaya, in the household, in my father's village. We grew up in a really natural environment. For this reason, we are one of God's lucky servants, but, unfortunately, when he takes his share of this industry, he is also experiencing some difficulties while contributing to the country's economy. This water, which you all know, in the area of the Lotus Tea, which is known to you all, is watered by peach gardens, naturally grown by chestnuts, grown by camel pears, is known as the earth's black one, now almost all of which are going into exports, brings out poison today, unfortunately. All the vegetables that grow in the plains of Georgia are no longer watered by those canals. Indeed, Lotus Tea holds an important place on the agenda of Bursa. All NGOs agree that the ruling leader, Lotus Tea, will now get rid of this pollution. At the same time, I'm sure the ruling party MPs feel the same way. Of course, there are studies for that, of course, and maybe the government has some work to do, but unfortunately, you can't go any further on paper. So, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, you know, our friend from the ruling party, who met with the city in 2013, might say this, but there's nothing that's been done. At a cost of 50 trillion in the municipality last semester, the banks were greened, and the hiking grounds were created.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0217par0045	12 trillion, wrong number.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0046	Anyway, 12 trillion, it doesn't matter. I mean, a lot of money was spent, but nothing was done to reduce the pollution there. Look, now, how do you get ahead of this in Bursa, and what does it need to be done? Of course, Bursa is the first city in Turkey to form the OSB. Turkey's first OSB, founded in 1961 at a place called the Yalayır, is currently expanding and continuing its work. There are 13 OSBs and 8 rehabilitated OSBs. I mean, Turkey's most organised industrial district is the province of Bursa. The city of agriculture, as stated, is also the city of agriculture. I mean as an industrialist in the past, it's not right to have new OSBs in Turkey if industry is to grow. He's still searching for OSB...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0218par0050	To clean up the messes.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0051	...here are some 13,000 acres of land in Karacabey's villages in the past few weeks... perhaps Mr. Leader will mention it in a few moments. Look, Kestel, Barakfaki, Gürsu...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0218par0052	Kestel 2...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0053	...the Green Environment Purification Facility, which covers all industrial areas here, has been established. Sir, the refining plant at OSB has been established in Demirtaş. There's the first and perhaps possibly the largest OSB treatment facility in Turkey that I've just mentioned. I'm a chemical engineer. I don't want anyone to read me stories like this, like this, like this, like this. So I know how those decontaminations work during the day, how they work when they're seen, how they work at night. So, of course, the industrialist is going to make money, of course it will contribute to the country's economy, but while I'm doing that, I don't think he has the right to turn the lives of the people who live in Bursa into poison, to poison them. And I think it's a good idea that if there's a new OSB that insists that the land is now a new OSB, that's a 13,000-acre area that's also very closely concerned about Mr. Önder, then it's a good thing to give it up.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0056	Brother Necati, you know those facilities have been monitored by the Ministry of Environment for 24 hours. Twenty-four hours.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0057	I'm a chemical engineer. I'm in the industrialists in Bursa.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0058	Twenty-four hours of surveillance and reporting.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0059	Mr. Hussein, I know more about this than you do. Never mind, don't sell to a fool, I'll give you proof of all this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0060	Also record that the treatment facilities are monitored for 24 hours.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0061	The scholarship is an important city. The city where I was born and raised. I want the beauty of my life to be lived by my children.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0062	I hope so.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0063	The people who live in Burma must experience all the good things that God has given him. It's not just Lotus Tea, you know, it's a time when you can't even go to the sea in Bursa. In Beauty, in Mudanya, in Bullets, in Gemlik.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0064	Brother Necati, there's no problem now, this problem is solved with deep discharges.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0220par0065	They're all clean.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0066	...even there, it was forbidden to go into the sea, and still, anxiously, there are many jellyfish, which, by the fact that there are many jellyfish, indicate the pollution of the sea. Look, that beautiful, glassy, when I was young, when I was a child, when I entered the bottom of the sea, there was no more that Marmara that I had seen for miles.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0067	And now, brother Necati, after the deep discharge, it's been resolved everywhere.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0068	It's all because of that lotus tea, lots of reasons, domestic waste, et cetera.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0069	Even Gemlik Bay is clean now.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0070	Look, instead of making 400 trillion second stadiums in the city's budget in Bursa, send funds to the projects to clean up Lotus Tea. When there is no need for a scholarship, do you now close the windows of your car as you pass through the Gate, which is a disgrace to us, instead of getting up and spending 400 trillion liras from the city's budget and so forth, while there are 35,000 people and Turkey has the most beautiful grounded stadium in Burma?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0219par0071	He's getting better, he's getting better.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0216par0072	I mean, you all know there's places where you can go, let alone put poison in the environment, but you can't even stick your nose in it. For a scholarship, green like Bursa is an embarrassment in a place of all beauty. That lotus tea we were talking about, you can't even get your feet in those parts of Inkaya. The moment you put your foot in it, you'll be facing bubbles and pus in the streams where those beautiful fish are eaten. Look, this is important. Mr. Bursa MPs, you have come forward, not to listen to me, but to listen to our brother Leader who is about to speak, but please don't object to this matter. This Lotus Tea is important. Lotus Tea is important not only for Bursa, but for Turkey, not to poison all products that have been distributed to Turkey. Like Mr. Ilhan, I'm calling on the MPs of Bursa, the ruling lawmakers from here: support this research motion. Stop the story, do the deed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0221par0076	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. On the other hand, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0222par0080	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the CHP Group's motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the preservation of the natural wealth that Lotus Tea has. I salute the General Assembly. In particular, there have been significant increases in urban populations over the past 30 years due to intense migrations from the country to the cities. This led to an unplanned increase in construction and the rapid urban and industrial construction of efficient agricultural areas. In addition, urbanization and industrialization have resulted in a large number of wastes. Rivers, teas, and surrounding areas in the cities have suffered major damage. As you can see from the context of the motion we discussed, Lotus Tea, which is the apple of the eye, has also been threatened with destruction. Mr. President, it is said that the United Nations Environment and Human Conference, gathered in Stockholm on June 5, 1972, is a document of the world's Environmental Declaration of the United Nations: "The right to live in a quality of freedom, equality and affordable life in an environment that allows honor and peace. " In this context, we live in an age and geography where we need to be extremely sensitive to the protection of the environment, the care of life resources for humanity and for all living things, the survival and development of natural and cultural heritage. In Turkey, where even basic human rights are wanted to be suspended, I have to say that I find it meaningful and necessary to defend the right to the environment and to talk about the rights of nature. Dear lawmakers are the biggest responsibility of the neoliberal capitalist system pollution, which sees nature as a meta, such as human labor, and aims to exploit it. In Turkey, the AKP government continues to run recklessly on neoliberal capitalist policies. For example, as the European Union's progress reports on Turkey have indicated, Turkey continues to change its laws in the environment in a way that is incompatible with the requirements of the CED directive, bringing additional exemptions to its environmental impact assessment. As a result, many major infrastructure projects in the Black Sea and Mediterranean areas were excluded from the CED report, including nuclear power plants, microscale hydropower plants, the third bridge in Istanbul, and the new airport. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the natural riches of a country can only be used for the benefit of people and nature who live on that land. It's equivalent to attacking the rights of those who live in the land, when all these resources have a number of partners, whether local or multinational companies. In particular, there can be no explanation for this attack through laws and regulations that block the legal rights of the people living in that country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as you know, hydropower plants that have done enormous damage to the environment continue to threaten our water supply, and unfortunately, the government is not giving up on these practices. Freedom, however, is not only the right of men, but freedom is also the right of lakes, rivers, trees and animals, all ecosystems. Let's not forget that man is only a part of this ecosystem. In a manner of speaking, man is not the owner of the world, but he is a tenant, and he has to get along with his neighbors, other members of the ecosystem - air, water, soil, and other creatures. Dear lawmakers, ecological social life is one of the most fundamental principles that we stand for as the Democratic Party of Peoples. In this context, for the protection of the natural wealth of Lotus Tea, such as all streams and teas, and for the establishment of emergency action plan for the safe transfer of these resources to future generations, for the prevention of preventive measures against the threat of warped construction, for the preservation of plants and animal assets, for the detection of industrial waste from individual industrial facilities, and for preventing preventive measures, for the sake of the future, we would like to contribute to all of this to hotel operations in the area of the Ulüdağ hotels and to identify waste from social facilities and to provide proper measures and to ensure that the protection of environmental pollution, for the protection of plants and animal assets, and for the protection of our resources, to ensure that we are prepared for the future. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to bring to the agenda of a very important issue in the rest of my speech. I'd like to renegotiate today's attacks on the Assyrian-Suryani people by ISIS. On February 23, the ISIS terrorist group launched a barbaric terrorist attack against the Asuri-Süryani villages on the Habur River of Haseke. As the ISIS terror organization attacked villages in Tel Tamir town and other villages along the Habur River, many houses and churches were destroyed, many of them were burned, as a total of 10 people lost their lives by the Suryani warriors and civilians. Some 4,000 people (about 1,000 families) have taken refuge in the cities of Haseke and Kamishlı, while the fate of the ISIS terrorists, including women, children and older, remains uncertain. Dear MPs, nearly all 35 Asuri-Suryani villages in the Habur region have been evacuated. These villages on the side of the Habur River are the villages of Asuri-Suryanis, who were able to escape the massacres in Hakkari and then the Simele region of Iraq in 1935. In the ten-day conflict, armed forces of YPG and Ashurri-Suryanis are fighting a common battle against ISIS attacks. As a result of this struggle, some villages have been saved from ISIS, while 12 Assyrian-Suryani villages are still occupied by ISIS. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers were forced to emigrate from more than 160,000 Asuri-Süryani-Keldani settlements last year as the ISIS terrorists attacked Mosul and then the area of Segal and Ninova in Iraq. The ancient churches and monasteries that they had left behind had also fallen into ISIS's hands and had bombed many of them. There is not only a physical massacre against the people of Asuri-Suryani-Keldani, but also a cultural genocide. Because thousands of years of historical structures, sculptures, and books of this ancient civilization are being destroyed. The last example of this is the attacks on the Ninova Archeology Museum in Mosul last week. In 2003, during the collapse of the regime in Iraq until today, the population of the Assyrian-Süryani-Keldani people of Iraq was reduced to about 350,000 today, as a result of the ongoing attacks on the people of Keldani. In the same way, it is estimated that more than half of the population today had to leave Syria before the civil war. Mr. President, these attacks against the people of Asuri-Suryani-Keldani are not coincidental, even though both Syria and Iraq have not received weapons. These attacks aim to complete the destruction of the Assyrian-Suryani-Keldani people in Mesopotamia. Therefore, we repeat our call to both the international forces and the Turkish government, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and other opposition parties who have so far been insensitive to the attacks of the ISIS terrorist organization: Please voice against the Asuri-Süryani-Keldani people, who have led many civilizations on the territory of Ancient Anatolia and Mesopotamia. From here, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Foreign Minister, we believe there is no need to have a cult or a religion to condemn a massacre. In that sense, we ask the government of the Republic of Turkey to show the sensitivity necessary from our government and to implement an effective policy for the rescue of nearly 300 ▪ women, girls, children, who have been kidnapped. Because the level of sensitivity that we show to a person in the face of persecution against the people will be the greatest measure of our sincerity in our brotherly speech. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all again with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0223par0096	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Against him, Bursa MP Commander Matlı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Matli.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY regarding the group proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council with love and respect. Dear friends, as our lawmakers have just told us, Bursa is a very important, very historical, very ancient civilization's cradle, a city central, and a city with very important, very different properties within its own body. With history, culture, industry, agriculture, it's a city that's always been a center of attraction, and an important city that has been the capital of the Ottoman Empire for a hundred and thirty years.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0225par0102	That's where the TOKI plant the buildings.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0103	Such an important city, a city that has always been an attraction, a center of attraction throughout history, has always been a pioneer in the development of industry in Turkey over the past forty-fifty years, and has become a very important center of attraction in Turkey's industrial development. But we also know that today we regret to observe that it is the center of attraction, that it has, unfortunately, cut off all the great beauty of Bursa, and, on the other hand, it has brought with it the problems of urbanization, of the environment, and of industrialization. Dear friends, we know very well that as people who act on the state's motto, the most important thing to keep a man alive is healthy environments, healthy cities, and we are doing everything we can to make a brand city in that sense and in the coming period.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0226par0105	What have you been doing for 12 years, 12 years?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0106	On one hand we have problems, but in the next, we show every effort we can to get the brand I.D. earned by Bursa to move even higher.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0227par0107	What did you expect, someone holding your hand?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0108	We do everything in our power to raise healthy people and healthy generations in a healthy environment in Bursa. As Necati Bey just told me, I was born and raised in the village of Cambaz, Karacabey. In that village, in Lotus Tea, we entered the stream many times. We caught a lot of fish in that creek.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0228par0109	Now?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0110	Our childhood was there, but in the time after that, of course, we know the situation of Lotus Tea, as you do, and of course we don't deny it. It's never and never possible to deny what's seen.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0228par0111	But you don't do anything.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0229par0112	Who's giving you the entire treatment facilities, Mr. Ilhan? Don't you see the investments of 500-600 million dollars?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0113	Yes, we've lost Lotus Tea in the past. The Plain of Bursa is lost in this sense, but today, with the power of the AK PARTI, with the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality, with very serious, large-scale groundwork, Bursa now has a new identity, new environment. 1/100. And together with the plans of the thousand, we shall see the good city, and the good things together, and we shall observe them together. Yes, in that sense, our Great City signed off on some very important work.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0228par0114	What did you do?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0229par0115	Brother Leader, what have you done? Give me an example, for example.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0116	Yes, and I'd like to talk a little bit about these: there's been some serious work done on the construction of sewers and rainwater collectors. That's how the Hay Collector came into service. In that sense, we are moving quickly and firmly towards regaining our plain. We're moving waste water treatment plants into a life, and we're moving on to a life after that. The East Waste Water Depletion Facility, the West Waste Water Purification Facility, on the other hand, was quickly carried out the project phases of the Urban Waste Water Resolving Projects...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0229par0118	People are poisoned in New York City, they can't drink water! People were poisoned in New York City!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0119	...these projects have been tendered, and in the future, and in a very short period of time, we will put them in the service, God willing...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0229par0120	He's been poisoned, people, lying in hospitals!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0121	...and along with that, at the point of urban development in Burma, at the point of the development of a healthy city, we're going to be able to observe a new Bursa. All together, in a very brief envelope of time. Yes, by Allah's leave, when we do these things, dear fellow lawmakers, in a few years' time, we will all go to the river at Lotus Tea, and we will all fish together.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0230par0124	Yeah, you haven't done it in 12 years! It doesn't suit you, Commander, it doesn't suit you! Mr. Leader doesn't suit you, you haven't done anything in 12 years!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0125	Mr. Ilhan, Mr. Necati, we'll be alive that day, and hopefully we'll be together that day, and I'll invite you and your bathing suits and your clothes to swim together at Lotus Tea.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0231par0126	Thirteen years, thirteen years!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0127	We'll make it happen together.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0232par0128	You haven't done anything in 12 years at Lotus Tea!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0129	Yes, with wild industrialization in the Plains of Bursa, unfortunately, yes, we see the state of industry together.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0233par0130	It'll turn into a roller coaster story!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0131	At the point of the exchange of industry, at the point of the transformation of industry, at the point of moving these industrial facilities to another location in Bursa Plain, we have a very important protocol with industrial businesses, and in this framework, these industrial facilities have been given time to...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0234par0132	Mr. Leader, he gave me eight years, eight years!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0133	Hopefully, we'll all move our industrial facilities together to an organized industrial area in Burma, and together we'll save our plains, our fields, our farmlands from these industrial facilities.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0234par0134	Oh, my God! After the plain is finished, after the Lotus is finished!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0135	Yes, but on the one hand, industrial facilities, businesses continue; you're right, I agree, and when we look at it from the other side, here, the industrial plants have been set up to clean up the waste they dumped on Lotus Tea, but that's not enough. Mr. Necati has come up with something very important. Because, the biggest problem all over Turkey, industrial facilities, they run these treatment facilities during the day, they don't run them at night, but what did we do about it? We, as the Metropolitan and Environment Ministry, have established an online monitoring facility, setting up a central monitoring system, thus preventing these industrial facilities from literally throwing waste into agricultural land, in actual terms, into Lotus Tea. Hopefully, along with these, we'll all see what's really cleaner, Lotus Tea. Like I said, these projects are big projects. When we look at it, we're investing in about 200 trillion pounds of decontamination, wastewater. Yeah, we're talking about decontamination facilities. This waste from the decontamination facilities has been auctioned off to the burn site in connection with the cremation of the mud. This facility, which has an estimated 70-80 million lira budget, will also be implemented. So we're going to save the environment from here, and we're going to generate energy from the other side, and we're going to make a very serious contribution to Turkey's energy production.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0235par0137	Don't say that like it's a lot of money!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0138	We're implementing about $200 million in investments in collectors.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0235par0139	We're helping 10 billion a year, what 70 trillions are you talking about? We're paying 10 billion taxes, we're talking about Bursa, what 70 trillions?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0140	When we put all of this together, in a place like Bursa, I'll just say it's 600 million liras of the city city's old number, 600 trillion dollars of investments in one or two years, but that's not enough.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0236par0141	Who's doing it?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0142	When the city borders expanded, our outlying counties took part in a major city, where the tenders began to collect wild solid waste.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0237par0143	Mr. President, the preacher is deceiving us about the scholarship.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0144	Gemlik, Orhangazi, Iznik, on the other hand, Yenişehir, İngegöl, on the other hand, Mustafakemalpaşa, Karacabey, and around here, hopefully, solid waste storage facilities will be activated very quickly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0238par0145	Ingegöl is already there.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0146	Dear friends, the new Turkey, the new Bursa is all growing together, and together we are building this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0239par0147	I want the old Bursa. What am I going to do with the new Bursa?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0148	In fact, the following process will be a brand-new city worldwide, more than in Turkey as a green and habitable city with new transport arteries, highways, fast trains, thermal tourism.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0240par0149	You've cheated him for 12 years, and you're gonna cheat him for another 12 years?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0150	He is the head of the greatest shortages we have ever experienced in this sense in Bursa, where there is no tourist town.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0241par0151	I need vision for the brand, vision.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0152	But with the construction of the tourism plant on the one hand and the more powerful implementation of the green scholarship, it will become both a habitable city and a center of attraction for tourism worldwide.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0242par0153	It is, and it's better that way.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0154	In that sense, I would like to express my gratitude for the sensibilities of our opposition lawmakers, but in this case, I feel the need to inform you of the services that are being done in this sense, in the sense that some lack of knowledge should be completed.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0243par0155	I'll give you a seminar on that, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0244par0156	Come on, Commander, it's not like that. Come on.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0157	And at the end of my words, I repeat: Mr. Necati, Mr. Ilhan, with Allah's permission, if we don't die, if we're alive, in a few years' time, I hope to be with you...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0245par0158	And where have you been for thirteen years, 13 years? The story, the story! I need action.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0160	...we will all swim together in Lotus Tea, Gemlik, Karacabey Strait, and everywhere, in healthy waters, in a healthy environment.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0246par0161	Is it in the budget, in the budget? Did you put it in the budget?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0224par0162	I salute you all with respect, love, conversation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0247par0164	Thank you, Mr. Matli.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0248par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0247par0166	Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0248par0167	I'd like to speak of the 69th article... by underestimating the lack of information as we speak. There's an open taunt, sir. He expressed a lack of information.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0249par0168	Mr. Director of Information, he's just giving us a heads-up.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0250par0169	Reverend, why haven't you submitted this motion in 13 years?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0251par0170	Congressmans, could you be quiet, please? Keep it down a bit.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0252par0171	Mr. President, there's an open taunt.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0251par0172	Mr. Irony, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0253par0174	Why didn't you bring it before, brother?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0251par0175	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0176	You listen first, Hakan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0255par0177	Ilhan, tell me about the marble furnaces, tell me about the marble dust, tell me about the marble furnaces, tell me about the streams that end. There's no more fields to sow, tell me.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0180	Mr. President, thank you very much. Yes, I'd like to point out that I'm not comfortable with these conversations between the two Bursa MPs, but we have nowhere to go but Bursa.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0256par0182	They do, they go to Arabia.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0183	Besides, Commander, I just realized that my brother is the mayor of the city. Here I am, the Lotus Tea is dirty, and the Lotus Tea is pouring poison, and Nilfut Er-Tea must be cleansed. Friends, if the governor is interested in Lotus Tea, the mayor is not interested. Please, let's do this together. I used his expression.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0257par0184	Why did you wait until today, Mr. Ilhan?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0185	My dear friend, in a way I didn't expect, he's talking about the works of the city hall.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0257par0186	You're late.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0187	Tell me about the TOKI dwellings, Mr. Commander Matlı, and tell me about the thermal plant you will build in the DOSAB, where 160,000 people live in the city. I don't think it suits you because you're a friend we work with.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0258par0188	It's not like that. It's not like that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0259par0189	Bravo, ilhan bhai!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0190	Besides, guys, what do we want it for? We want it for our future, for our children, for April. We don't want anything for anyone else.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0260par0191	Why did you wait until today?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0192	However, I would also like to tell you that if you come to Bursa, go to Karacabey Inkaya village, where the headman is going to offer you something, he says, "Do I give you the product that I sell, or the product that I eat?" What do you think? E, the product he sells is better.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0260par0193	Why did you wait until today?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0194	He says, "No, I will not give him the produce I will sell, for I have watered him with the dirty water of Lotus. " In this regard, for our future, please do it for them.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0261par0195	Mayor, tell him what we did. Tell them how long we've been working on moving industrial facilities until 2019, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0196	Mr. Falcon, how many pennies does the Bursarians invest in 6 billion 600 million tax dollars, 6 billion 600 million dollars, 2014?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0262par0197	Don't talk to each other, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0198	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0262par0199	Don't talk to each other, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0200	I don't talk to them, but my friends are uncomfortable, uncomfortable. Now I'll announce it from there when I see what the Fellowship MPs have given to this motion.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0263par0202	Why did you wait until today?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0203	And that's what I'm going to tell you. I want to say that I'm going to do something I've never done before. It's a matter of importance; it's a matter of policy. Let's all come up with a short and urgent plan and do this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0263par0204	Why did you wait until today?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0254par0205	Therefore, my dear friends, I invite you, and give you my respects, to take possession of the petition again, and to keep him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0264par0207	Thank you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0264par0209	Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0210	Same goes for me. Mr. Leader blamed us for the missing information and so on, calling us MPs. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0264par0211	Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the Leader is one of the things that actually concerns my brother most, Lotus Tea. Right, like he said, he goes through his village, where my relatives live, where my father grew up -- he knows the village well -- he goes through it. Of course, this, as I say, does not only harm those villages, but all of Turkey. Like I said, the fruits and vegetables that grow there go all over Turkey. Is there anyone who doesn't eat scholarship peaches, who doesn't eat camel pears? I mean, there's a lot of other things like that. Look, when I say lack of knowledge, I am 54 years old. I was born and raised in Bursa. Therefore, there is no place for me that I have not traveled, and there is no place for me that I have not gone, and I am much older than my brother the Leader. I guess I have a little bit more experience with information than he does. Plus, technically, Mr. Huseyin's talking about these things, but that's exactly what Mr. Commander denied. I'm also a chemical engineer. Look, there's chemical decontamination in these facilities, which is more known to those who know, but also to have biodegradation. So, the need for chemical oxygen is separate, the need for biological oxygen is separate, and there is also a need for biodegradation in these facilities, and at the same time, that channel needs to be rehabilitated as it is, so the Lotus Tea has collapsed...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0266par0218	Brother Necati, you know it's done.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0219	Look, I'll give Mr. Ilhan his due. The friends say, "Why did he wait until today?" Look, he submitted this motion at 24/11/2011, at 24/11/2011.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0267par0220	But why is it being brought up today? The request to put it on the agenda is important.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0221	Mr. Ilhan has done his duty.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0267par0222	No, no. He's short, he's late.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0223	I mean, at least that's what's important to Mr. Leader, to our friends from Bursa, and to everyone who's here. Look, Bursa doesn't pay 6 billion 600 anymore, but 8 billion dollars a year. Now, Mr. Leader said to me, what did he do to the governor?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0268par0226	Are you against the stadium, brother Necati?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0227	Against, yes, against the stadium. There's 400 trillion dollars lying there for the old stadium to stand where it's not necessary. What's the point? There's 35 grand of stadiums...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0268par0228	Are you against the stadium of the champion Bursaspor?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0229	So the stadium's not filled now, it's not filled, it's not even half full. You're up, 400 from the city's budget...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0268par0230	We got support from the Department of Youth and Sports.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0231	With this money, we used to fish and swim in the pool, as Mr. Leader put it, but it's going to be our time, I'll tell you that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0269par0233	Can you say that at the stadium, brother Necati?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0234	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0270par0236	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0269par0237	Can you say that to Bursaspor? Our scholarship is our common value. Are you saying that to the audience?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0238	I'm against the stadium, not the scholarshipspor.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0269par0239	Can you go to the stadium and say that, brother Necati? I'm complaining about you to the bursars. We're making the best stadium for him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0240	Why didn't you give the 400 trillions to Bursaspor? Why didn't you give it to him? Why didn't you give it to him?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0269par0241	Too bad, too bad! We have a lot in common. No brother Necati, it doesn't look good!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0265par0242	He owes 100 trillion.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0271par0243	Please... please... you've made the necessary speeches, and I'll ask you to speak the rest backstage. Mr. Hamzacebi is in the system, I promise. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0272par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. There was a very good talk here about Lotus Tea. A similar problem with Lotus Tea is found in Riva Creek in Istanbul. The Tepecik district of Gebze, Gebze, is born near Tepecik district of Gebze, through Pendik and Çekmeköy districts of Turkey, which is also known by the people of Istanbul, and is again in about 10 districts of Beykoz, and is thrown into the sea in the Black Sea. Today, in Riva Creek, intense fish deaths occur. Riva Creek, like Lotus Tea, faces a great deal of pollution. The waste of small industrial corporations in the surrounding area is being poured into the stream, unauthorized wastes are being made, and for many other reasons we can count, the Riva Creek is really experiencing intense pollution. The species of plants and fish are in danger, disappearing, other endemic species are diminishing, the natural habitats of migratory birds are decaying and disappearing, and we are experiencing numerous problems like this. Lotus Tea, Riva Creek, and perhaps Turkey may not be more likely -- many streams really need state protection measures. Here only these streams are good from the bench. It is not true to say, it is necessary to take special precautions. I'm calling on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs as well as suggestions on Lotus Tea. Riva Creek is about to be dispossessed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0273par0252	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0272par0255	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit03spe0273par0256	The Republican People's Party Group has a request for a roll call before the vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Önal, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Ozkes, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Earth, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Candy, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0273par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Al-Seconditional Law, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Order for Humanitance; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul's Proposal Çağişdeşdeşdeşimation on Peace and the Law on the Laws Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanment; We will Proposition to Bene on the Law on the Law on the Law; We shall Propose to Bene of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and the Peace and the Law on the Law on Peace of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; Wed on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human.; Wed.; We shall of Peace and the Law. of Peace and the Law on Human. of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace and the Law on Peace of Peace and the Law on Human. The commission and the government are in place. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 38 was adopted in the last chapter of the draft, which was considered the basic law. Now, there are two motions for new matter violations. Congressmans, you know, I'm going to read the motions and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. The commission is mostly only if he doesn't agree to the motion, I'll remove it from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Legal Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; Law on the Law on Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul MP Başgin's Law on Humanity, 2559th Amendments and 2684th Amendments in the Constitutional Law, 2-4th Amendments of the Constitutional Commission on the Constitutional Law, 2/4th Amendment of the Constitution, and the Constitutional Commission on the Constitutional of the Constitution, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4 on the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of "Besides bilateral agreements with interested states, foreign students or trainees can be accepted at the Academy with Minister's approval or free of charge. From those who have been accepted in this manner, financial transactions related to education or courses will be carried out through the rotating capital business established according to Article 29 of this Law." "The Police Chiefs' Education Centre, institute and police are obliged to serve in mandatory service for six years at vocational institutes, and for those who have first degree graduates and undergraduates (except foreign nationals)." "In accordance with whether or not he has graduated from these, those who have resigned or committed a crime that required that he be cut off from the service, or who have been separated for any other reason, must pay their tuition costs as compensation, as well as the missing part of their responsibilities." After Article 38 in the shape of Article 38, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ali Öz Osmaniye Mersin...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0274par0035	We're pulling the motion...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0273par0036	You're drawing the motion. It's been moved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law of Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice President of Humanity Services; İstanbul MP İsın Kashdemir Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal for Al-Communist Law on Information; İstanbul Vice-Command-Command-Sublimand-As-As-As-Assultunciationalsal Law; İstanbul Council on the Lawsal Law; İstanbul Commission on Humanmental Laws (Sections) and Agreement of the Laws on Peace of the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment Act; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of the Law on Humanment of Humanity and Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law (S) and Law on Human Law on Human Law (Biment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment) and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanmentals) and Law on Humanment; İstanbul's) and Law on Humanmental Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Seğuls of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul MP Mustafas Offices) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Gaziantep...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0275par0042	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0273par0043	The motion has been drawn. There are three motions on Article 39, one of which is an anti-constitutional motion, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Code of Law and Code of Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for changes in the Code of Information; İstanbul Commissioner's Proposal on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Laws and the Constitution on Humanity; İstanbul's Council of Laws Council of Humanity (AS/TK) Agreement (AS/TK) When necessary, we propose and propose to replace Article 39 in the form of the Academy with the President's proposal, the General Manager's opinion and with the Minister's approval." Mehmet Erdogan Alim İlk Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri "MEDDE Article 39 - 4652 was removed from the "other police higher education institutions" text (d) in the first verse of Article 22 of Law 39 - 4652, and the same joke was added to the same joke. "e) In case of demands, the professors are in the president's proposal, the general director's opinion, and the institutions and units that form the Academy with the Minister's approval," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The first joke of Article 22 of Law 4652 (d) was removed from the "other police higher education institutions" text and added the bell to the same joke. "e) When necessary, the professors are at the President's proposal, the General Director's opinion and the Ministry's approval in the institutions and units that form the Academy 39 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer İzzet Cetin Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the bill of law shall be removed because of the violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the sole party -- one man -- beyond the dictatorship regime and the police state -- the actual "war state" of law and law. Pervin Buldan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Gülser Yıldırım Iron Steel Fair Zozani Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0276par0073	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0273par0074	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0277par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0273par0076	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0278par0078	Members of the law, 79 bar and all universities, criminal lawyers, professors have sent letters here about this package. Again, the Human Rights Association, the Citizens' Association of Helsinki, the Office of Amnesty International, again, the Delegation of the European Union, again, the Joint Platform of Human Rights, the European Union decisions, all of these, everyone, say this package is not the package of freedoms that you claim it is. This package is a package of fascism, a package that erases rights and freedoms, which does not bring good to Turkey, nor to you, it brings evil, it brings bad law. In the period of September 12th, during the coup, you will be subjected to tortures and cruel acts that were not performed in martial law courts during an extraordinary period, and your children will remain. Whoever made you buy it as a freedom package, give up your stubbornness. Don't stand behind this fascism package. Look, three groups of parties are against it here. Come on, pull this out to the Commission, let's talk properly, get these clauses out of here. Or you'll be wiped out by four in the morning, five in the morning. You're going to get sick, you're going to get sick. You're here all day long for nothing, fellas. Shame on you, shame on the country, shame on our 77 million people. Don't act, give up this fascism package. Consider this invitation, or I won't interfere.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0279par0082	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit04spe0280par0083	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0280par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 39 of Law Bill 684. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll give you a minute, and we'll stop the arguments. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The first joke of Article 22 of Law 4652 (d) was removed from the "other police higher education institutions" text and added the bell to the same joke. "e) When necessary, the professors are at the President's proposal, the General Director's opinion and the Ministry's approval in the institutions and units that form the Academy 39 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0281par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0280par0019	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0282par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0280par0021	Who will speak, Mr. Serindağ?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0283par0022	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0280par0023	Mr. Cetin, you will speak, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0283par0025	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've been thinking a lot about whether I should go into the substance or say something about the whole bill. Indeed, as Hasip Kaplan said earlier, you have brought the police here, leaving the party police and the state to be a police state, leaving Turkey, a bill the whole world agreed upon, locked up the Assembly since about a month ago, leaving us all up to the night and the morning. I'm thinking, I wonder, fellow AKP MPs -- maybe I understand that they're too dependent up there because the election time is near -- but don't local foreign intellectuals look at the paper or the article about this law? Don't you read a two-line article? I'm really amazed. Now, for once, see, not with the police, not with the police, but with the fact that there are prototype reflections of your reckoning with the community. So, when you look inside the substance, you say, "Sir, we've taken out the notice at other police higher education institutions." You didn't throw it away, you added it as a (e) joke. What did you do? In the (e) joke, when you eliminated the appointment given by the former faculty, when you took over 50,000 police officers, police chiefs, especially those of your senior executives, who decided to be extradited from the judiciary, that's where all of your discomfort lies. Friends, there really are security institutions in all states, domestic security, foreign security, especially police internal security. And this is the change that you've made in this article -- you're doing it in Article 22 of the Police Higher Education Law -- is literally an exile clause. I mean, you've been walking together for nine years before, ten years, as Mr. Arinc called it, giving as much as I can. You've built the structure that you boasted about together. And now you're killing them to get back at them. What does the same Arinc say on the last few weeks, July 24, 2014? I know both sides very well. I'm hurt, but we've had our moments, and we can't ignore them. Something's got to come out. We've done that, but I'm sorry, forgive us. They have to say, "If they swear to us, we can do something." Of course, as you get older and older, you'll lose face with your original weight, and you'll start rubbing your nose in it. Dear friends, see, in democratic countries, police act on the principle of the rule of rule of law for public order and public good, and they are charged with protecting the rights of citizens, but in antidemocratic countries -- the state you want to create -- police do the duties of the regime without regard to the law. For him, he puts a bullet directly into the young men who are seeking their rights, who are seeking their rights, who are seeking their rights, who are sometimes pepper spray, who are sometimes club, who are sometimes armed, or in any way, in the state of the law, who are entitled to the rights of rights and demonstrations. Unfortunately, the people who ordered the police to shoot that bullet are actually powered, powered by power. Now, my dear friends, you've put the police in a really miserable position. Of course, you're not just dealing with the police, you're dealing with all of the republic's institutions. After this law, I have no doubt that you will play with the schools of the Armed Forces, which I have served for a long time and I know what's inside. Turkey is not a family farm, not a person's farm. If you believe in democracy, I'm telling you to insist on this bill and stop torturing yourself and the nation and this Parliament and withdraw the bill. I salute the honored members of the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0284par0034	Thank you, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0285par0037	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0284par0038	There's a request for roll call, and I'm doing it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gök, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Small, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Elector, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Öğün. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterressment in Local Services Law, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Substances in Information Law, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Caplan's Proposal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for the Law on Humanity Services Act, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Encounter's Proposal and Al-Communist's Proclamination of the Law on Publicity Laws Laws Laws Laws Law; 2559 Agreement of Peace and Laws on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Laws and Laws of Laws and Laws of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity (Affion). When necessary, we propose and propose to replace Article 39 in the form of the Academy with the President's proposal, the General Manager's opinion and with the Minister's approval." Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends "MEDDE Article 39 - 4652 was removed from the "other police higher education institutions" text (d) in the first verse of Article 22 of Law 39 - 4652, and the same joke was added to the same joke. "e) In case of demands, the professors are in the president's proposal, the general director's opinion, and the institutions and units that form the Academy with the Minister's approval," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0286par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0284par0056	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0287par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0284par0058	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0060	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, when we look at this bill and look at it from the beginning, we see something: all the offers brought in are rejected by the ruling group. The president of the League of Bars -- law enforcement, law enforcement, law enforcement -- says that this bill is unconstitutional, you don't care; law professors say that it's against the Constitution; law professors say that it's against the Constitution; those who haven't lost their minds with cheese bread are against the Constitution. The academics say, "You don't care; you don't care about it; the academics say, you don't care about it; the opposition says you don't care about it; I don't care about you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0289par0062	Teacher, we're listening to you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0063	Look, let me tell you something, where the sun is worshipped, the laws of energy lose importance. There's a very fanatical dogmatic state here. Without this situation, the outcome of a negotiation here cannot be achieved, it's always absurd.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0290par0064	Teacher, can you open up a little bit more here?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0291par0065	Teacher, speak in a way that Ramadan will understand.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0066	Dear lawmakers, this bill is unconstitutional, I repeat once again. This bill will be annulled by the Constitutional Court if it gets out of here. This bill is an act of stubbornness. This bill is a revenge scheme. This bill is totalitarian. This bill is a bill in Turkey that leaves no institution unpoliticized, especially the gendarmes. This bill is a bill of injustice and injustice. It's a bill that rejects the rights, destroys our children, destroys the young. This bill is an enemy of the state of law, and let the lawyers' ears ring. This bill violates the Constitution's general principles of the Constitution, the principle of which the republic's attributes are held. The bill authorises a cease and desist search of anyone on the street and the vehicle without a written order from a judge, prosecutor or law enforcement officer. It is contrary to the 20th article of the Constitution. The governor and the governors order the police, the administration goes to trial. Powers are against separation. Lawyers, your face must be black. It's against the Constitution, brother. Now, why was this bill brought in, we'll have to work on that, folks. The answer we're going to give you is a vital answer to what needs are due to the internal security bill. This bill, October 6th, 7th...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0292par0068	Teacher, what clause does the Constitution violate?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0069	Against the principles of the beginning, against the 2nd article, against the 3rd article, against the 20th article. So, if you don't know about this, I'm gonna tell you about it?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0293par0070	Sir, Recep doesn't know what the Constitution is, don't tell him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0294par0071	They don't know the Constitution, Hajji, what are you talking to them?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0072	Now, if this bill is being drafted on October 6th or 7th for terrorist elements that turn the streets into battlefields, it's a pointless scheme. This bill is not required to adopt such a bill to eliminate the actual situation they have created if it is opposed to terrorist elements in Cizre who have opened moats in and out of the neighborhoods with municipal vehicles, setting up security tents, raising the PKK flag, declaring autonomy. It is sufficient for those who govern the state to establish will and run the law. The Prime Minister's adviser, Mahçupyan, says the public order is now in the hands of the PKK, not the state. Maybe it's a little over the top, but it's pretty much true. Why is the public order under the control of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? That's because of the dogma you worship, the solution process. That's where he dominated the PKK. Why are you...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0295par0073	No way!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0288par0074	I'm gonna say, "honey, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, Now, the incidents in Cizre, the events that have occurred before, 6-7 October, show that the PKK has a serious blockage of public order in the region entirely. Was it then because of the decree of Tanzimat, or because of the edict of Islam, or because of the foundation of the organization? It is, as they say in Oslo, that you, as they say, overlook the PKK, open up a space of freedom, and in the process of holding the arm of the soldier, the police, the gendarme. And let's be clear, you're not using the existing law, you're not using the existing powers, you're asking for authority. These events are happening because of your lack of unauthorizedness and the lack of feelings for the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you put your will to it, if you exercise consciousness, this bill will be unnecessary, and so will public order and public security, and so will the government's law enforcement. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0296par0080	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0297par0081	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0296par0082	You want roll call, I'll do it. Mr. Vural, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Öz, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Oral, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Başesgioğlu. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 39 is accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0298par0093	One of the motions has not been discussed. CHP's motion was not discussed.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0296par0094	It's been discussed, sir, all the motions.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0299par0095	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0296par0096	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0299par0099	Mr. President, yesterday, in accordance with Article 13 of the Civil Code, we expressed our objections to a decision taken by the Presidential Court. In accordance with those objections, you said that you were the President's Court and that we should file a petition to the Presidential Court, that you would take a stand based on the response from there. Now, today, I have a reply from Mr. Cemil Cicek, the president of the Parliament of March 4, 2015. Our objection, if you recall, is that all members except the member who have been complained about the number of complaints filed against the members of the Presidential Court on their own due to their actions in the Fifth Amendment, are all members except for the number of members who have been filed against them. On February 21st, our objection is based on the fact that the faithful Yakut (Serious Yakut) is acting as acting Speaker of Parliament, and we have filed a petition yesterday regarding our objection, which has been sent to us in writing, which is the exact response from the article 3/3/2015, in which you wrote: that the President of Parliament shall also not participate in the 3/20rd meeting of the Constitutional Assembly, and that the President of the Constitutional Court shall not participate in the 5th Amendment, and that he shall not be able to vote. Your request for the subject of your article has been requested to our knowledge that there is no presidential procedure, since it is not part of the Fifth Amendment's statement that the members of the Presidential Court should not attend the meetings. Now, what we want to say here is that it is not possible for us to accept this statement. Because our reason was for the Sadik Yakut (Serious Yakut) who led the merger in the session that day, joining the debates and votes at the Presidential Court. However, there is no extenuating judgment in the text sent here, as there is not a single sentence as to why the faithful Yakut had joined the voting and the Presidential Court, but there is an understanding that has been cut off by a single sentence, disregarding the political party's will, and under that understanding is the signature of Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek. We, the People's Democratic Party, condemn this attitude by Mr. Cemil Cicek. Because with that attitude, he made it clear that he was acting as an AKP MP, not as the Speaker of Parliament. If he had been a neutral Speaker, he would have given up the right to the objection and gone to a corrective procedure. Velev, who, even if he didn't need a corrective procedure, should have sent a letter to the political party group, to write a satisfactory statement in accordance with the seriousness of his position. We're not desperate about this. As the People's Democratic Party, due to this biased situation involving the Parliament Speaker as AKP, we will proceed to legal measures tomorrow due to the removal of the Civil Code. This Parliament is currently conducting its work without the Civil Code. The principle of neutrality in the parliamentary hearings, including the Speaker of Parliament, has completely disappeared, and the Civil Code has been subjugated. Therefore, I have already submitted to the General Assembly the information that we will resort to these legal procedures. I'd like to express that we have condemned Cemil Cicek again.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0300par0104	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0301par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0300par0106	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0301par0108	Mr. President, there has been one of the darkest days in our Parliamentary General Assembly's 56th Union, dated February 17, 2015, and many of our fellow MPs have been injured. Although there were injured lawmakers that day, the Parliament once demonstrated its determination to continue its work with the majority pressure of the ruling party, showing a stance that prevented solidarity between its own friends. As you know, a quiet and quiet environment must be established in the Parliamentary General Assemblys, free of fighting, noise. The injury of five MPs, hospitalization, is an important and grave event. In order to determine the attacks on opposition party MPs, we have requested that the cameras be examined in order to identify those responsible and that the Speaker begin a process on those responsible. Our desire and desire was to determine which MP was involved in the coup with the detection of the cameras and to determine who was responsible in such a way that no one could doubt it. In the petition we submitted to the Parliament Speaker, the Speaker of Parliament delivered a letter to us as of last night, and in this article, it appears that the disciplinary provisions in the Interior Charter, the warnings, the insults, the insults of the vice presidents governing the merger, the rude and hurtful speech, could not prevent the actual attacks. It is clear that such statements and actions do not suit our General Veteran Assembly, that parliament, lawmakers and the political institution generally undermine the public's reputation. After making this assessment of the events that have taken place in the General Assembly on your article of interest, there is no mandate or authority for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to begin proceedings on the relevant MPs. Mr. President, in the face of a serious grave picture, if this Parliamentary President is not going to start a process, prevent discipline and the next chaos, who will be responsible for the next chaos? There must be a discipline here. So there's not a lot of ice here, but a lot of our congressman friends have been beaten to death. In the face of such a painting, who will be responsible for maintaining the peace of this House? What's going to happen? If a fight breaks out now and there's no action against the person responsible for this fight, who is responsible for the confidence in this House, the establishment of peace in this House, and the establishment of law in that healthy environment? Mr. Speaker has given a very unfortunate answer. We reject this answer and rephrase the will of the Republican People's Party Group to be processed by the found responsible.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0302par0112	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0115	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, Mr. Speaker, the Speaker of Parliament, who speaks of the House's reputation, must remember that protecting the House's reputation is based on ruling according to the Civil Code. If a Parliament Speaker or Parliament Speaker doesn't comply with the law, the law of the nation, then he's undermining the sovereignty and law of the nation. So, the reputation of a parliament is by law, that's its power. By obeying the law, mostly based on national will, the House will be honored, but those who must uphold the law of the nation in order to ensure the dignity of the House are the Speakers of Parliament and the Deputy Speakers of Parliament who have undermined the nation's law, and they are the ones who have done wrong. Mr. President, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and those who ruled these sessions against the law, all the laws of the law, the Constitution, the Civil Code, have cast a shadow on the reputation of the Parliament's nation. In this regard, we, the National Movement Party, have submitted all of the irregularities, along with their reports, to the Speaker of Parliament. Now, those who don't know how to refute the irregularities that we've uncovered with their evidence can make a decision by the majority of fingers that there are no violations of the Civil Code provisions. I have a report. Where's your evidence? It's against the law, the Court of Parliament. So why are we keeping stenographers here, why are there reports, why are there cameras? Despite the evidence on these cameras, he said there were no digits, Mr. Vice President, that could not refute our right wishes, that there were no discrepancies in order to cover up irregularities, that would not be a disgrace. Where's your proof of that? Cameras are rolling, stenographers are running, reports are in the middle. Did I ask for a sufficient number of decisions? I wanted to. He didn't do it? It's an app. How is that not an anomaly? In this regard, it is not a duty for those who swear honor and honor that the Speaker of Parliament, who have made our rights and who have broken the word and voice of the opposition with the threat of the majority's will, and who have rejected our decisions and our demands on this matter at the Court session. In that sense, I'll make it very clear that if we're going to think about the reputation of the House, we're going to run the law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0304par0119	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0120	If you're not running the law, if you're legitimizing rights extortions with a verdict, if you can't bring one piece of evidence against our claims, you're doomed. In that sense, I also think that the Speaker of Parliament is not going to take a step towards the dignity of the Assembly, and is tasked directly with eliminating the voice and law of the opposition, with political purposes, with the power he possesses. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0123	Thank you, Mr. Vural, you've filed a report.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0124	What's it gonna be? The transcripts will be rejected, too. He's moving on to the books.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0125	You make the necessary attempts, we discussed it yesterday.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0126	There'll be a conscience.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0127	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0128	He'll have a conscience that believes in people's law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0129	The law is always superior, and we can only protect everyone's rights by law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0303par0130	Those without a conscience have no law, and those without a law have no conscience.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0134	Now, there are two proposals for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's proposal for amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Law on Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment in the Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Law, İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Alteration of Laws, 2559; Constitutional of Laws and Laws on Laws of Laws, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4th Amendments under the Law on the Constitutional Law and Law, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4. "e) If necessary, we offer and propose the president's proposal, the General Director's opinion and the Ministry's approval in the institutions and units that form the Academy," and then propose that the following clause be violated after Article 39 and other substances be identified accordingly. Mughl...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0306par0140	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0141	He's retreated. I'm reading another motion on the new substance requirement: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law of Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice President of Humanity Services; İstanbul MP İskdemir Kashdemir's Proposal on Amendments; İstanbul Vice Minister of the Law on Information Act on Information; İstanbul Deputy Law on Information Laws and Admissions of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; İstanbul MP İstanbul Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğuleli Kaplan's Order on the Law; İstanbul Law shall be made changes in the Law; İstanbul Law; İstanbul Commission; İstanbul Council of Law on Law on Law; İstanbul Council of Law; İstanbul Law shall be made to be under the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Humanment; İstanbul Commission; İstanbul Law and the Law and the Law Act on Human Law Act. After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Ali Serindağ Ensar Öğült Kuşoğlu Gaziantep Ardahan Ankara...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0307par0147	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0305par0148	The motion has been withdrawn. Mr. Yilmaz, your request is final. I looked at it in the last session, and I couldn't see you, so I couldn't meet your request, and I haven't forgotten your demand to correct it according to 58. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0308par0153	Mr. President, there's a statement in my speech last night, where it says: "You will correct these laws with security, with Molotovkottyyl." It causes misunderstandings. There's no way you can fix this with these. So I propose that the word "you will correct" be written in the form "you think you will correct it." I mean, that's misunderstood here. I mean, you don't mean to prevent terrorism. Now, I'm asking all the lawmakers here, what law on preventing terrorism and securing security is an obstacle to you right now? One of you come out and say, "This law is tying our hands."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0309par0154	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0308par0155	It's meant to be written as motive. Now, what I'm going to say is, we've been fighting this for 16 days, and we're saying, look, you're limiting democratic rights here, you're making laws that go towards a party state. This is not the will of the nation. What does it say? But you, instead of the will of the people, shall see the will of Abdullah Ocalan the day after tomorrow, shall do it in this assembly. On February 28, a meeting was held in Dolmabahçe. Abdullah Ocalan's statement of 10 articles was shared with the public and is envisioned to be carried out within the framework of the law. I'll see you now. Now, there were Mr. Baluken of HDP and Lady of Pervin Buldan, Deputy Leader of the Group from the AKP, two ministers from the government, and a statement was made. The Deputy Leader of the Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has then stated: "There will be some regulations in this law, even the matter passed will be renegotiated. " Now, here, you have been trying for sixteen days to get these laws out. Now, I ask you, what will you do when you are put aside by the rule of the nation and under the rule of Abdullah Ocalan? You know when you were dating after that... when you went back to the country... when the HDP and the MHP were one, they were against the bonza, the Molotovkotaki. We will prevent terror, and they will oppose it. You will go and tell them in your land. Now, if you make arrangements here under the direction of Apoh, if you make arrangements for this bill, what about the will of the MPs here? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then I will say that there is a group acting according to the will of Abdullah Ocalan, not by the will of the people, but by the will of the AK PARTY. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0310par0162	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0311par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0310par0164	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0311par0165	Mr. Orator implied that we agreed on this bill with the AK PARTY group specifically about the Dolmabahçe meeting, and he teased our group.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0310par0166	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0311par0169	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For several days, there has been an argument about the joint statement in Dolmabahçe. For several days, we have expressed that the most honorable work done by the People's Democratic Party, the best work, is efforts to bring lasting peace to this country. If young people haven't died in this country for two years because of the conflicting process, if the hope of a lasting peace against the risk of the next conflict is still growing, we need to remember the role of the work that the People's Democratic Party has put forth here. For us, our people's discretion is important. When we were making that joint statement in Dolmabahçe, we didn't sit down with anyone and make any deals behind closed doors. What we say in Dolmabahçe, and what we say publicly, is very clear. The ten topics we have expressed are the issues that will revolutionize Turkey's democracy, democratise Turkey, and eliminate the shame of illegal understanding in Turkey. The opening of democratic politics, the democratic solution, the common country, the democratic republic, the status of identity, free citizenship, women, ecology, economics and security in this country, are the principles that we will defend our hearts in every way. Mr. Group, we need to clarify the matter regarding the agreement that has been made to our Vice President. I mean, in a speech, it's just a matter of the press tweezing a few sentences out of that conversation in the form of a last-minute news flash. We haven't taken a step back from our stance on this bill from the beginning. We declare that this bill, for the sake of this country, is not for the sake of this people's democratic future. For him, we say this bill is the right way to withdraw from the Commission and consult with other opposition parties and be brought to the General Assembly in such a way. We said the same thing at Dolmabahçe Palace. Those in the Dolmabahçe Palace, also on behalf of the AKP, said nothing except what they said at the General Assembly -- a number of unresolved words for the same reasons. As these General Assembly talks continued, they expressed that they were open to discussing the matter in the form of a resumption, but from the very first day, without using a single sentence as to what arrangements to make in this matter. Therefore, there is no agreement, no negotiation on this bill. Peoples' Democratic Party cares that this bill be taken into the Commission and conferred with other opposition parties and sought agreements. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0312par0175	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0313par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0312par0177	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0313par0178	What our group is saying isn't just about this bill. The Dolmabahçe talks aren't just about this bill. If democracy is a regime of openness, this is Parliament, it must be discussed here. Negotiations in Imralı, talks with Yalçın Akdoğan after İmralı, travel between Yalçın Akdoğan and İmralı, talks in Oslo, whatever there is to be told here. If this isn't told, no one can talk about democracy, this is Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0312par0179	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0313par0180	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0314par0181	We're for transparency.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0313par0182	Tell them what's being discussed and what's being discussed by the HDP Group if they don't explain it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0314par0183	We're telling you, Hajji, 10 articles are clear.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0313par0184	Let them explain, let them get rid of the pressure, let them explain.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0315par0185	You made your point. Now, Hatay MP Sefik Uçük has a demand according to Article 58, and I will fulfill it. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0316par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, in yesterday's speech, from the Justice and Development Party to Recep Special Bey, who is actually in the position of the shooter on watch, you're lying, even if I'm right.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0317par0194	That's a shame. Congressman, are you going to apologize to your congressman friend?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0316par0195	Now, of course, this is Congress. He's a friend who lives around here, just like us. You're lying to him. I didn't approve of calling him that. I also asked Mr. Kabbat, who is this friend? He said, "He is a very valuable man." I'm sorry to hear that. I take it back. You're not telling the truth. I want to make it right. Congressmans, what we're talking about here is, of course, a law. Each political party will use the rights given by the Civil Code. But you did one thing before this law even came down to the House, you pressed it into the dilemma of a Molotov and a bonsai, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the officials of your party... There are already enough laws for that, and you've created an air that seems to oppose the opposition. It wasn't right, and people knew it wasn't true. Look, we supported, we even contributed. But you made it look like the two political parties, which were politically impossible to get together like the MPP, HDP. I wonder: HDP's officials explain, says: "We agreed. However much matter has been discussed, the ruling party, which we object to, will change it by our will and will. Their claim is that we'll see it, and when we see it, if that happens, we'll tell you, are you going to repeat the items we object to? If you don't do it, it's the other way around, you're holding hands with the HDP and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the Imralı, ignoring the Parliament and making laws, and that's your shame. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0318par0199	Thank you, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0319par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0318par0201	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0319par0202	Your honor has spoken to our group about the negotiations. We want to say that that's not the case. He's trying to pick on us...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0318par0203	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0319par0206	Guys, I'm gonna open up the interview book, and everybody's records are gonna come out. But let's be honest, as the People's Democratic Party, we say that all talks should be held open in this parliament, 11 commissions have been established under framework law enforcement and CHP must be included. If he has a problem with this secrecy, at least the MPP will be able to participate in the parliamentary process. Look, I'd like to take a look at the interview record: 93, the first ceasefire in the late Ozal period, and while our fellow deputies were still in Damascus, the news of the death of the deceased Ozal. Think about it. There were a lot of actors at that time. All of these actors, lawmakers, are still lawmakers at our party, mayors, but others are working at other parties, right now or nearby. Then there were 99 coalition periods. During the 99 coalitions, I myself was a friend of the coalition government when I went to Imralı as a lawyer -- not as a member of the 15-member delegations -- who personally witnessed the talks of the General Staff, Gendarmes, Internal Affairs, Intelligence, all of them. Look, there's been some serious progress in the European Union during a 1999-2004 conflict.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0320par0208	There's no one from the government. Sergeant Major's on the phone.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0319par0209	We're putting aside the late Ecevit period, and since 2006, the Oslo process came here with the Imralı process, Dolmabahçe... now, there has been an open press conference in Dolmabahçe, which is not secret, and Mr. Baluken explained the issues. But I'm telling the CHP Group that in 2002 Mr. Erdogan had a meeting with Mr. Baykal in Dolmabahçe, or elsewhere, to open the way for his parliamentary candidacy through a temporary clause to Mr. Erdogan. Then, you bring in a temporary clause in this Parliament, you open your way to becoming a MP to Erdogan in Siirt, he comes, he becomes Prime Minister, he becomes President, you complain now. Everybody, let's get this rock off your chest. You can't come here and attack HDP, and that's not how the opposition works. HDP is breaking down by heart, HDP will bring peace in Turkey. This is the party that most advocates transparency in the House. We make that very clear. Here you go, let's go!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0321par0211	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0322par0212	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0321par0213	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0322par0214	Explain to our group if you have any hidden attitude. He said, "We don't have any secret attitude." Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0323par0215	No, he said it's gone.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0324par0216	It's all right, sir, on the record.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0325par0217	Mr. Ugly, for his speech...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0326par0218	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0325par0219	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0327par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we are persistently hearing a common mouth from both the Prime Minister of the period and the current President, Mr. Erdogan, and from time to time from various officials, ministers and HDP. So the 57th government has talks in the coalition period -- somehow a common mouth is forming. Now, for God's sake, someone should explain if they have a document. You are the government, you are the power, you have every document. Government officials may, of course, be able to discuss some issues related to terrorism and end the terror. Is there a surrender in it? Is there a bargain in it? Did he have a political opinion? If that's what you've got, then so be it! Now, there's no reason for you to suddenly join the nationalist movement party in crime or to support your own crime. We make it clear: explain whatever document, whatever information you have. See if there is a negotiation with the terrorist organization or if there is a directive during the National Movement Party period. You have the documents. It's all there. You own all of the government's institutions. Loud and clear.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0328par0223	And there's the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0327par0224	Bring it in front of us. Put it in front of us, then we'll consider it. But no one has the right to blame the National Movement Party with these, with these, with these, with these, with these words before we get put in front of us. That's not true.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0329par0225	They can't.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0327par0226	And you, as the government... look, Mr. Mahir Ünal, when these negotiations first started, he came out in this parliament and said: "We have no idea, the government is seeing each other. Now, if it was a good thing, if it was the right thing to do, why wasn't it taken care of in the first place?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0330par0227	And they accused him of being an asshole.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0327par0228	Using people's feelings and slandering political parties here has nothing to do with political morality. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0331par0230	Thank you, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0332par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0331par0232	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0332par0233	Mr. President, Mr. Hasip Kaplan mentioned in his speech a Republican People's Party's Party's effort to lift a ban on Recep Tayyip Erdogan in 2002. I want to make this clear.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0331par0234	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0333par0235	Mr. President, you'd better advise no further bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0331par0236	We always give that warning, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0333par0237	Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0331par0238	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0334par0240	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party is always a party for freedom.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0335par0241	Really!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0336par0242	Don't close the papers!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0334par0243	In 2002, the Justice and Development Party received the most votes in the election -- which Mr. Hasip Kaplan had just stated -- was the first party in the election. However, the party's founder, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was not able to accept that he could not be head of the party and could not be head of the party because it was banned, and the Republican People's Party did not accept that he would not be head of a party appointed by the votes of the people and that he would be banned politically, and supported a motion under the leadership of our then President, Mr. Deniz Baykal, to lift the ban, to Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0336par0244	You know what happened.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0337par0245	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0334par0246	This is an expression of the Republican People's Party's faith in democracy, freedom, and the will of the people. Just like in 1991.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0337par0247	Right. Sometimes they do it right.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0334par0248	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, then the Republican People's Party, in 1991, made a very historic mission to represent our citizens in the east and southeast, the party, which was organised as a party of labor, to the Parliament under the roof of the Republican People's Party, thinking that the process, which is called the "subject" today, should be prevented from then and should be done.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0338par0249	Why are you the enemy now?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0334par0250	We're Democrats in 1991, Democrats in 2002. Just as the Republican People's Party founded the country and became multi-party after 1946, and all of you are in the state system established by the Republican People's Party today, there is only one consequence, which is the Republican People's Party's respect for democracy, law, human rights and freedoms. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0339par0253	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0339par0255	Mr. Kaplan, what is it? Say it a little louder, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0256	Mr. Gök told me how they opened the way for democracy.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0339par0257	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0258	He mentioned some positive steps. But two parties from 2002 to 2007 -- two of them alone -- were in Congress at the time, and there were neutral steps they took at that time, and I want to explain that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0341par0259	That's not the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0260	So it's not just the path to democracy, it's the general principles of democracy. I want to make a statement about this, about the neutrals.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0342par0261	You want to fix it or...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0262	Yeah. It wasn't just positive, so there were neutrals, there were negative sides. I'd like to work together to address the steps taken by the AK PARTY and CHP.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0342par0263	To make sure there's no misunderstandings...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0264	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0342par0265	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0267	My dear friends, I'd like to ask Erdogan if you've made a special arrangement in 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0343par0268	What was done in return, it's important.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0340par0269	I'm asking, why did you do this, what did you do in return, negotiate? That's what I asked. That's one. Sorry, that's one. Second, you're saying that we also made an election alliance at 991. Isn't it true that the Welfare Party once did the election alliances with you in the time of the nationalist Front governments? You did, didn't you? You've done it in the past. That's politics, you make alliances, you form nationalist Front governments, and now you're fighting back, that's politics. But it's not him; it's the HDP, before him, about BDP, DEHAP, HADEP, HEP, DEP... didn't this parliament lift the immunity of our MPs? How quickly you've forgotten those days. Look, I'll tell you something else, and I'll bring you up to date: there's a lot of sins in this democracy apostleship, power and the main opposition. In 2007, we came to say: let's be independent candidates, we can't get past this 10 percent threshold. We decided to run independently in 2007, you got two parties, independent candidates had separate ballots; you got two parties, you got a ballot, you got 400 votes, yallah, yallah! Against who? We're running for independent MP, you're united against us, the power and the main opposition. Then it wasn't enough, in 2007, they looked, we came, we formed a band, we came in a bang. What did you do in the 2011 elections? We applied, and we said, "Ya, we have a last name on the ballot." Well, for God's sake, let it be a symbol, let it be an emblem, let it be something. Now you can't all read those names if you don't wear glasses. We traveled from village to village, from house to house, to old, illiterate people, practicing, teaching them how to vote on the ballot with ropes. And that's your negatives. Why do you torture the citizen, to vote... you merged with the ruling party as CHP? Oh, you're not at all guilty of running with a 10% threshold? We've been here for two semesters, and you're getting three parties for Treasury Aid, and you're not guilty at all? I wanted to draw attention to your common interests and your sins.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0344par0274	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0345par0275	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0344par0276	Here you go, Mr. Sky, your request.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0346par0277	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0345par0278	Sir, the orator has made false accusations to us in his speech, stating that we have no sin at all and that we are cooperating with the ruling party. I'd like to explain myself to you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0344par0279	Now, I will give you my word, but Mr. Vural has a request for a statement from his previous speech, which is to say, because of the accusations he made against the 57th government. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0347par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. A few moments ago, Mr. Kaplan made a statement of the truth, saying that there had been talks during the seventh period of the government. The government's political will at the time is one, fighting terrorism, the terrorist organization's ability to lay down its own weapons of terror. That's in all his papers. It says here how the interrogator of Abdullah Ocalan questioned him. I want a ceasefire declared by the Turkish Republic of Turkey, the terrorist leader. It is contrary to reason that the Republic of Turkey declared a mutual ceasefire with a terrorist organisation. Let's declare firekeeping, you don't operate. Such things are unacceptable. In this frame, our interviews with these things are not a negotiation. The state will do the same today as yesterday against any armed terrorist who is a threat to the country's territory. In this regard, we are not going to sit at the table with an illegal terrorist organization for stopping violence, securing public safety. Interrogation's clear, interrogation's open. This is the road map of the terrorist leader, which the AKP government signed today in Dolmabahçe. That's exactly what it says, look - when was it written, this road map sent? On August 15, 2009- he says: "Despite all my efforts to assess my administrative interrogation as a basis for dialogue and negotiation, someone has always broken it, and all my suggestions have been unanswered. Clearly, the completion of the movement was planned until the end, and there were structures that saw negotiation and dialogue as the end of it. Yes, there was no negotiation with a terrorist organization, and in response to his call to drop the weapons on September 1, 1999, the President of the period, as well as Mr. Bulent Ecevit, was also the only way to drop the weapons. The government has declared that such a terrorist organization will never be dealt with by the state. This is the truth. It's very clear what our move is based on, and it's very clear what we're doing. So, if you're having a discussion and dialogue, you need to be clear about what's being discussed with these negotiators and speakers in this Parliament. The Imran reports, the cryptophones that went to Kandil, on which axis, if a call was made in Mudanya. But our political will here is no other way than by the terrorist organization to drop the weapon. That's exactly how we expressed our belief that the law should be enforced. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's our will. The terrorist leader already says there is no dialogue in such a negotiation. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0348par0291	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0349par0292	Wow, I don't think AKP has anything to say.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0348par0293	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0295	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, MP of the People's Democratic Party, teased both the Republican People's Party and the AKP (AKP) in his speech, but the AKP members of our friends, they've got their hands full. I mean, there's nothing wrong with you. My dear friends, such words are spoken, and none of you have the right to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0351par0296	We don't have any sins, so we don't have to deal with them.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0297	So this is an important argument, an important thesis.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0351par0298	We don't answer because we don't have a sin.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0299	So you can't ignore that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0351par0300	You two talk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0301	So, like this, I'm going to watch this with patience and quiet. You can't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0351par0302	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0303	I mean, don't you have a sin? Why don't you answer that?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0351par0304	We don't have any sins, and we're confident enough of ourselves.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0350par0305	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, I answer to you, of course. Now, as the Republican People's Party, we, the Republican People's Party, have recently given examples of the development of Turkey's democracy -- the way we opened the political path of the leader of a party that received the most votes in 2002 -- when the ant went dark in 1991, we took huge steps to resolve the Kurdish problem in terms of Turkey's democracy. What are we arguing about today? We're discussing the 10% election dam. Let's bring in the 10 per cent election dam -- bring in the constitutional amendment -- 3-5 per cent, let's do it. The goal is to allow our Kurdish citizens of eastern and southeast to run in any way -- not independently -- but under their own parties. We're up to it, and it has to be done about the solution to this problem. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, you see, in Turkey, when the word "Kurdish" was not mentioned, when the Republican People's Party was banned, in 1991 the Republican People's Party proposed law on speaking different languages other than Turkish, so these are important steps. Now, we want all parties to unite in the liberal path of the Republican People's Party, we're trying to pioneer this, in politics, in every aspect of life, we're trying to pioneer it. We are different from the AKP, we do not share in AKP's sin. We always assert the AKP's wrongs, and we display our clear stance against those wrongs. We wish you would, too, so other opposition parties must stand up to AKP's wrongs. However, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, you accuse us of co-operation with the AKP, but Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, your president, says on 9 February 2013: ▪ The party we are close to is the AKP, which is not one-on-one, but the party we are close to is the AKP. Now, let's not argue about this, but our job is to block this martial law. Together, I call on the democratic forces to unite in the fight against this law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit05spe0352par0312	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0352par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are three motions on Article 40, one of which is a violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal İçalı's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in the Law on Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Court of Law on Change in the Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity of Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Amendment; Çanakkale MP İsım Kashdemirimimimimimimimim's Propos on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Propos on the Council of Human Rights Affairs; İstanbul Commission on Peace and the Council of Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Law; İstanbul (Biation of Law on the Constitution) Adness of Law on Humanity of Peace and the Law on the Law on Humanity of Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law( Biment of HumanRights ) and the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights Law on Human Law on Human Law on HumanRights) . of Human Law on Human Rights Office of Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights and the Constitution( Bonies ofHuman).) . of Human Rights and the Council of Peace and the Council ofHuman) . of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace shall be under the Council of Human Rights and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Human Offices Offices Offices Offices Office of Human Offices and the Council ofHuman) . of Human. of Human Offices and the Council of Human. of Human Office of Human Office of Human Office of Human Rights Office of Human Rights and the Council of Human Rights and the Council of Human Office of Human Office of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices Office of Human We offer and propose that the 40tharticle , shaped likethis , be replaced in the followingway. Mehmet Erdogan Alim İlk Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Bulent Belen "The first joke of Article 40 - 4652 of the Law (c) has been added to the statement "police university principals, police chiefs' training director, deputy director of police chiefs' training center and director of the police vocational training centre," following the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The first joke of Article 25 of Law 4652 (c) has been added to the statement "police university principals, police chiefs of education director and police occupational director of training centers," following the declaration of "police university principals." 40 in shape. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Sedef Little Celal Dinçer Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and That the Article 1 of the Constitution and Court of Law shall be removed from the bill because of the violation of the Constitution and Article 40 of the Constitution and Articles of the Law, contrary to universal law norms and fundamental human rights and against the one-party-one-migration regime and beyond the police state. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Abdullah Levent Çüsemettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with this motion I've submitted?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0353par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0352par0035	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0354par0036	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0352par0037	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0355par0038	Mr. President, my dear friends, we insist that this bill be withdrawn altogether. The Justice and Development Party, in fact, has some of the trends in the news today, though it thinks that the law can be passed through a reciprocal, but does not manifest it as an open policy, and it maintains a great amount of pressure on all of us in this Parliament. Here, lawmakers are forced to participate in the discussion of this law, in a metazorical way, in a completely contrary to the work ethic, in human rights, the way it works and fundamentals. However, the conclusion, despite all this pressure, has brought the law to a very important place for opposition parties to discuss because the legitimacy of this law has already become public interest. This is an illegitimate law, with which there can be neither peace nor security for the public, and everyone agrees more or less. It's just that, with the insistence of the palace, in fact, between themselves and the infinite differences of opinion, the law among the Justice and Development Party MPs had a support at first, but it no longer has that support. We see that those who say that this law will pave the way for the solution process again have actually said that the previous law would pave the way for the solution process. So let us take either forty lines or forty mules, and let us agree here. That's not gonna happen, guys. You will give a clear answer to his request for a retrial. You know that this law cannot pass, that it is not legitimate, that it will return from the Constitutional Court, that it is in fundamental conflict with the European Court of Human Rights, but you're trying to impose this law on us here. The Constitution is against all things, against all things. It's against your own claims. However, for the safety of the palace, you're trying to impose this on us as public safety. So, I urge you to get your minds at once and withdraw this law and bring it to you in person, as soon as possible. I hope these warnings don't come from one ear to the other. I'd like to assume there's as much gray matter between your two ears as necessary. Good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0356par0043	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit06spe0357par0044	I will, sir. Thank you, Mr. Furcier. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0357par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Mersin MP Ertuğul Kürkcı and his friends on the 40th article of the Law Bill 684 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The first joke of Article 25 of Law 4652 (c) has been added to the statement "police university principals, police chiefs of education director and police occupational director of training centers," following the declaration of "police university principals." 40 in shape. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0358par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0357par0014	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0359par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0357par0016	Mr. Little, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0360par0018	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 40th Amendment of Bill 684. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, even though democracy has different meanings, there are a number of qualities that are fundamentally unchanged. For example, democracy cannot be mentioned without equality in rights and freedom to exercise these equal rights. For example, if there is no rule of law in a country and there is no rule of law, there is no law in a country, there is no democracy in the country if there are arbitrary detentions and arrests. For example, in any country, if any government ignores freedom of expression, conscience and religion, then you can appreciate that democracy is a democracy on paper. Of course, there are governments that claim that these fundamental rights and freedoms don't exist, but that they're democracy, but they're democratic cartoons. In fact, there are those who are trying to sell this democracy cartoon as a myth of advanced democracy, who are the most dangerous because this democracy cartoon has no tolerance for any opposition. Rights and freedoms are only for those who think like themselves, and the rest is the enemy. Anyone who doesn't feel like himself for such an understanding is a criminal, a criminal, even a traitor. To that kind of understanding, the history of the world is not at all foreign. Such understanding was popular in Germany in the '40s, in Stalin's Russia in the 50s, in the 70s, in the Chilean province of Pinochet, and in Turkey in the 12 September. Whoever used those words, whatever government took advantage of that kind of understanding, is now in the garbage of history. Such powers leave nothing but pain and blood and tears to both their own communities and the world. That's why it's a duty to the community and to the future that all democrats carry on the shoulders of all patriots. We've been carrying out this responsibility and duty, despite all the violence that's been going on here for weeks, and we'll continue to bring it in. Because we know that it will eventually bring our country to ruin in front of the police state that will be established by this law, because we also know that it will bring nothing but pain to the people of governments and power - poisoning. We're against all that. Or, of course, we're not opposed to increasing the fines on the bonzaite, the Molotovkottage. Anyone in their right mind would agree to be punished. What we are against is the destruction of our people's fundamental rights and freedoms under the name of security. Believe me, this country needs more democracy, not more security, more advanced human rights; it needs a real democracy, not an imaginary future democracy. This is our fight against those who don't see it, against those who don't want to see it. Some may view democracy as a luxury, some may prefer the security state to human rights and freedoms, some may make martial law daily, and some may not care that it has led the country to a cliff. We care about the Republican People's Party. I doubt if the other opposition parties, the HDP and the MPP, care as much as we do. Because we know that it's worth more to people's honor, to live freely, to live in peace than it is to someone's power, and that's why I'm saying that we're not going to let that society suffer, that we're not going to be part of this darkness, that we're going to be a part of it, that we're going to salute all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0024	Thank you, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0362par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0363par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0027	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0362par0028	As the People's Party of the Republic, we care about the country's future, we care about matters related to the country's problems. He said, "I doubt it matters when he mentions the HDP name." He obviously teased our group, so we'd like a word.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0029	Yeah. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0364par0031	Mr. President, by clearly mentioning the name of our party, he made a question and a claim as to whether we care about democracy or not, and I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0032	I'll make a promise to Mr. Bauken first.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0365par0033	Mr. Ertugrul will speak for our group.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0034	Mr. Kürkçü, I'll promise you first and then Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0366par0038	Mr. President, in this discussion, it would be ridiculous to mention the monopoly of patriotism. I don't think any party thinks the country's coming. We're thinking about the future of the country, the MHP's thinking about it, the CHP's thinking about it, the AKP's thinking about it, but everyone's thinking about it in their own way. The AKP envisions Turkey, its future, as a country that people like them have never listened to. The Republican People's Party is in favor of hitting on old values. The nationalist Movement Party is primarily seeking to reshape a society on the basis of Turkishism. We, the pluralist, are in favor of rebuilding a democratic, libertarian new arrangement of Turkey. Now, the future will show which of these thesises is true. But the issue here is that no one thinks about the future of the country, and I don't think about it. The question here is which of these thesises will be accepted by the public, which of these thesises has a strong idea based on which to create a new paradigm in Turkey. So, the conflict between us and the Republican People's Party is now a new understanding of a new partnership rather than a sense of sovereignty that has reached its limits, and in order for that to be achieved, we are obliged to establish a dialogue with whoever is able to communicate with us. Otherwise, it's not like we haven't tried to build a partnership with the Republican People's Party -- for democracy, for freedom, for justice. In the March local elections, I was part of the delegation to visit Mr. Kilicdaroglu, and we asked if we could look for a partner in the March local elections. The answer was very disappointing. Mr. Kilicdaroglu explained that it would hurt both of us to be seen together. In the presidential election, we actually said that we could work together with a liberal candidate in the second round, but since you've already decided in Ihsanoglu, the Republican People's Party couldn't evaluate our proposal. So, the argument that we don't think about the future of the country is all about understanding this future as you predicted it to be, like a gratuity, as a certainty. So we say, let's have this discussion in public, and let's not let anyone take the monopoly of patriotism into their own hands, or even the issue of patriotism. Everyone wants their country to move forward, there's nothing more normal. But how? Our answer is a future based on freedom, equality, democracy, self-government, equal citizenship, society. This, we see, is a success and continues to gain support.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0040	Thank you, Mr. Furman.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0367par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0361par0042	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0367par0043	Mr. Faruk will speak now, but we've had a row with the speaker again, and I'd like to speak again in the next speech.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0368par0044	We have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0367par0045	He accuses us of putting Turkey on the basis of a new Turkish constitution. We have different party views on this. We'd like to make an assessment of that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0369par0046	Mr. Honey is taking a stand on Mr. Small's bullying. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0370par0049	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been taunting the National Movement Party in an effort to teach a lecture on democracy and human dignity on behalf of the Republican People's Party who have just been on the stand. The National Movement Party is a party from coffins. What basic rights and freedoms mean is a party that is determined and determined to present the highest universal values that humanity has developed to every layer of its nation, every layer, every part of its nation. In this scope, our late President Alparslan Turkesh is the leader of a movement that, even when the Republican People's Party was a participant in Turkey at a time when anarchy was under the influence of foreign forces at that time, would not be worth the price of spinach in the streets. Therefore, it is no one's place or right to teach the National Movement Party a lesson in democracy. As for the honor of humanity. I'm telling all lawmakers that the Constitutional Compromise Commission is a treasure, all of you follow it, that the Constitutional Compromise Commission first accepted the Constitutional Compromise shall be a Constitution based on the honor of humanity. We proposed this from the perspective of the nine Light doctrine's principle of personality and freedom, which is the right and freedom of all members of our nation to develop their national and spiritual values, and it has been adopted by a unanimous vote of all parties. See, the issue of democracy and human dignity of the National Movement Party is so broad, it can't be compressed into narrow patterns. On the other hand, it was adopted by the National Party of Action in the process following two fundamental substances that could be the solution to all of Turkey's problems by moving from this scope. One of them is the principle of equality for all members of society in front of the law, and the other is a question that no one can be discriminated against for any reason. So, we've established in these first three articles the solution to the issue that has emerged, which will now divide the country's national unity and integrity into ethnic and religious parts and make Turkey subservient to the terrorist organization at Dolmabahçe Palace. So I'd like to remind the Republican People's Party that... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the National Movement Party is ready to teach you the lesson of democracy from such historical roots. While you're getting ideas from above and outside with the Socialist International, the National Party of Action has revealed its democratic identity, he says, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0371par0055	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0372par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0371par0057	Mr. Altay, let me hear your request.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0372par0058	Speaking earlier, Mr. Ertugrul Furkcu has accused the Republican People's Party of hitting on old values. That, of course, led to a false perception of our party by those watching the Assembly as a perception, and by the members of the General Assembly. We think it's a taunt, and we commend you. And secondly, Mr. Faruk Bal has given outside support to the Republican People's Party in the past, past years...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0373par0060	Is that a lie? Socialist Internationalist.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0372par0061	We're proud of the Socialist International. ...he accused me of being a party to the inquiry. If you think it's appropriate to tease both of us, we'll have to answer separately.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0374par0063	I'll make a promise to Mr. Halaçoglu first, and I'll consider yours, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0375par0064	Mr. President, why don't you put all the bullying together? One by one, one by one, I swear... all by one, I mean, by rust...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0376par0065	Now, if you want me to pick on you, too.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0377par0066	He's saying something, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0378par0067	Well, can I promise the one on the stand? Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0379par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first and foremost, empire-building nations can never be racist. The Turkish nation has established a state of 20 imperial degrees if you add Safehouses, Lighthouses, Akkoyuns and Karakoyuns instead of just the wrong 16 in the Presidential Forum, and many nations, religions, races have lived together. So you can't expect a nation with such a state philosophy to produce a policy based on just one race. We are, yes, developing a policy on Turkish-Islam philosophy. What does that mean? We are Turkish, and we are conducting a political policy by highlighting Turkish pride and consciousness, Islamic morality and virtue. That's what everyone should know. Now, here, you're talking about putting Turkey in a new mold on the basis of Turkishism. The Nationalist Movement Party's idea of nationalism is a political party that embraces whichever religion, race, race, religion, sect, and defends unity and unity and thinks it can be developed with them, and is conscious of that. Thus, I find it difficult to understand that Ertuğrul Kürkçı, who has been following us on these matters for years. You should know that by now. You must have had quite a political struggle with us back in the day. Now, you're saying here that we're going to reshape Turkey on the basis of Turkishness. Did we ever talk about something like this? We're talking about a thousand years of brotherhood, from Seljuklu period, we're defending the integrity of the Anatolian people, and we say that after the Turks accepted Islam, they flagged Islam, stood up against the Crusades. If you don't believe me, his speech is on my computer as a video. Now, therefore, it is extremely wrong to accuse us of these things, and we cannot possibly accept such an understanding. The Turkish nation has always been fair to all nations throughout its history, even though it is nowhere in the world, when a new land joins Ottoman territory, justice has been issued. So the declarations that guarantee their religious freedom, property and safety have been issued. Is there anything else in the world like this? Therefore, our guilt is extremely wrong. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0380par0077	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Altay, I'll give you three minutes. I know you have the skills to fit two pick-ups in those three minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0381par0079	I can't, Mr. President. They said a lot of heavy stuff, it won't fit in three minutes. It was four minutes ago, and your app went down in three minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0380par0080	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0381par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, bullying in Parliament is also a ritual, it will be, it will be useful. In this way, the members of the General Assembly will have a refresher memory, as well as evaluations of Parliament's capacity for those monitoring parliament. In fact, when we looked at Mr. Furkcu's speeches as a whole, he said nice things. I wish he hadn't accused the Republican People's Party of hanging out, hanging out with old values. Because there is no other party in Turkey that is more innovative than the Republican People's Party, self-developmental and rapid but never mutated. Plus, it's not so bad to hang out. We used to have Kuvaimillia, the Sivas Congress, the Erzurum Congress, the republic; there's a process of crowning democracy from there; there's a process of introducing social democracy to Turkey. Now, there's a Republican People's Party that embraces an understanding that basic rights and freedoms are above all else. Now as it was... ten years ago, the most precious thing in Turkey was the governor for those who ruled the state and the glorious state for their governor. Now we remove that glorious state and put it aside, putting human rights, fundamental rights, and freedoms before us. This is the understanding of the Republican People's Party, a liberal structure in Turkey. There is no other understanding of the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, of course, a very current issue is the political intervention of the presidents of Turkey. The current President had earlier said one language, then said one religion, one day he had a Kurdish problem, and one day he said, "No." He said, "No." He said, "It's like a tram." And people who embrace that understanding can't say a lot of things about democracy to opposition parties here, and there's not a lot of words to say about democracy. This law has demonstrated AKP's understanding of democracy. As for Mr. Bal...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0382par0088	Don't come!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0381par0089	There's no time to come, but I'd like to say that the Republican People's Party is proud and proud to be a member of the Socialist International. The idea of Socialist International has respect for law, respect for human dignity, democracy, freedom, equality, justice, rights division. I mean, there's no idea of nationalism based on blood, skulls in either the Socialist International or the Republican People's Party. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0383par0092	Thank you, Mr. Altay. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0384par0094	Mr. President, his claim about the skull is...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0385par0095	I didn't accuse you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0386par0096	Mr. President, in the spirit of expressing my name...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0385par0097	No, I didn't accuse the friends.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0387par0098	They've made such an accusation, since he's responded to our bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0099	He didn't accuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0385par0100	I didn't accuse the friends, I responded to a review of the Socialist International. For it is clear what ISIS is doing in the world today, and it is clear. I didn't accuse the MPP. When you say 'blood', 'head', 'Isil' comes to mind.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0101	He didn't accuse me, sir, he didn't really accuse me. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0385par0105	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0106	Request for roll call... Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0389par0108	Mr. President, in terms of my name, he called me "The Skullist," sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0390par0109	No, I said it after I finished that sentence.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0110	Please, I've gone through a procedure, Mr. Honey, and we can do this later. Mr. Altay, Mr. Gök, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Erylmaz, Mr. Püncü, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Earth, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Onur, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Özkoc. I'll give you a minute. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal İçalı's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in the Law on Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Court of Law on Change in the Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity of Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Amendment; Çanakkale MP İsım Kashdemirimimimimimimimim's Propos on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Propos on the Council of Human Rights Affairs; İstanbul Commission on Peace and the Council of Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Law; İstanbul (Biation of Law on the Constitution) Adness of Law on Humanity of Peace and the Law on the Law on Humanity of Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law( Biment of HumanRights ) and the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights Law on Human Law on Human Law on HumanRights) . of Human Law on Human Rights Office of Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights and the Constitution( Bonies ofHuman).) . of Human Rights and the Council of Peace and the Council ofHuman) . of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace shall be under the Council of Human Rights and the Council of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Council of Human Offices Offices Offices Offices Office of Human Offices and the Council ofHuman) . of Human. of Human Offices and the Council of Human. of Human Office of Human Office of Human Office of Human Rights Office of Human Rights and the Council of Human Rights and the Council of Human Office of Human Office of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices Office of Human We offer and propose that the 40tharticle , shaped likethis , be replaced in the followingway. Ahmet Duran Bulut (Fishesir) and his friends "The first joke of Article 25 of Law 40 - 4652 (c) has been added to the statement "police university principals, police chiefs' training centre director, deputy director of police chiefs' training center and director of the police vocational training centre," following the declaration. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0391par0125	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0126	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0392par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0388par0128	Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0393par0130	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I made a pledge on the 40th Amendment. Dear lawmakers, AKP power will go down in history as a force that shuts down the school. Police officers, police colleges, police academys, officers who teach there, you hand them out. You know why we think you're disbanding it, but it's a crime, a crime, a crime, and a sin to take away the rights of the professors who are currently there. During your reigns -- it's coming to the 13th year -- you're destroying the traditions of the Turkish state structure by disregarding the Turkish state tradition. You've entered such a partisan building that we're looking for a general manager, the secretary of the general manager, says, "What party is it from?" Of course, we tell that officer, that secretary, we give her the answer, but that's what the owner teaches her. You've created a staff, bureaucracy, who behaves according to their parties, even when you're taking control duties, powers of law enforcement. In fact, you created it so that in protocol, the President's son stepped in front of the governor. You've given this shame to the government. I know this is all wrong. And I know those of you who see it, who work in those institutions, who say, "Would that happen?" However, you've created governors who can't speak, who can't say, "Get out of here, so that you don't lose your seat in that province, in order not to lose your seat in that governor's office." The governors on top of the campaign car, the governors who broke into the party offices... of course, the governor who saw the governor is going after him. That's wrong. Today, you, tomorrow another... is wrong to turn the institutions of the Turkish state into this. You've made the government so much so that you've made it up to society. You've made society forgetful. You bring something up, it's like a bomb, your newspapers are all front page news. The next week, the subject is forgotten, and you reveal another. You made people forget everything. What would you remember if I asked you, July 4, 2003? You don't remember anything. But my heart burns, it's the history of the sledgehammer you put in the army, the date you put in the sack over Mehmetçik. The 5,000-year-old army of history, Europe and the world's most powerful army from that Mete Han... when you turned your back today, when you turned your back on the Greek flag-building islands, when you turned your back on the air breaches, when your Foreign Minister put it on the General's website, gave them permission, download that news from the Internet. You continue your work with blind, deaf, policies that can give the order. You want no police school, no cops, no teachers, no non-assigned teachers, and the field is yours. When you say "Marmara," you think of the runt around Marmara, the illegal fuels brought to the Sea of Marmara, and those who ignore them. I also think of the Marmara ship as a raid by Israel, and nine people who were killed and were martyred. What did you do to him, dear lawmakers? Did you ask his government, what did you do? Did you ask him about it? Our plane crashed on Syrian soil, in its territory. You've made him forget, you're ignoring him. What have you done with the tomb, the tomb of Solomon Shah? You moved it. Of course, because you were afraid of ISIS, the regional power there, the YPG, their planes, their missiles, their rockets, their tanks, you moved it, you gave up on Turkish soil. For God's sake, doesn't that hurt? It upsets me as a Turkish citizen. I know your heart bleeds, too, but I commend it to your consciences, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0394par0138	Thank you, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0395par0139	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit07spe0394par0140	I will, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0394par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Ahmet Duran Bulut and his friends on the 40th article of the Law Bill of 684 rows could not be reached. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's go to the 40th Amendment vote. There is an open motion to vote on Article 40. Now, I'm going to identify the names of the lawmakers who have this request. Levent Gök, Ankara? Here. Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep? Here. Ensar Öğün, Ardahan? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara? Here. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, Bigeli? Here. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta? Here. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul? Here. Mehmet Haberal, Zonguldak? Here. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul? Here. Binnaz Earth, Istanbul? Here. Aykan Erdemir, Bursa? Here. Omar Suha Aldan, Mudla? Here. Haydar Akar, Seiseli? Here. Melda Onur, Istanbul? Here. Orhan Straight, Slap? Here. Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay? Here. Izzet Çetin, Ankara? Here. Engin Özkoch, Sakarya? Here. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin? Here. Ugur Flagtutan, Artvin? Here. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the clear vote of Article 40: Thus, the 40th article has been accepted. Now, there are two proposals for the new substance requirement, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. İstanbul MP Dair's Law Proposal for Alterressing the Population Services Act, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsıs Kashdemir's Proposal's Proposal for Adition on the Law of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on the Law; İstanbul MP's Order for Change in the Law; İstanbul MP's Law, 2559 Agreement on the Law, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4* The Proposal of the Law on the Law and the Constitutional of the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law of Laws of Laws of Law, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4, 2-4 on the Laws and 2-4, 2-4 on the Commission on the Commission of the Law, 2-4, 2/1/1/4 We offer and propose that the following item be neglected after Article 40 in its shape, and other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Muğla Osmaniye...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0396par0039	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0394par0040	He's retreated. Congressmans, I just said there are two motions for a new clause violation, but it was a motion. We made a technical mistake. I'm sorry. Correction. He backed off, too. So that's the end of this new section of substance abuse. Now, according to Article 58, Ankara MP Levent Gökil has a request to make amends, and I will carry it out. Congressmans, I hear a song in the General Assembly, I hear music. Please...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0397par0045	Do you hear it on the left or on the right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0398par0046	Which way is that coming from?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0394par0047	It's coming from here. Please, if you want to listen to loud music, I suggest you go backstage.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0398par0049	Or let them open it so we can listen.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0394par0050	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0053	Mr. President, in my speech yesterday's merger, I said that as the Republican People's Party, we would invite the President to remain in the constitutional line. I really mean it, but today, a speech by the President stands before us as a very typical example of this National Assembly being taken into custody, dear friends. The president said the same thing in Malatya the other day: "This law will pass against all obstacles in Parliament. " (Isparta) What's the matter with him? The AKP ranks didn't make a sound. For the sake of the word of the nation, we have pushed it back, and you have not said a word. Now, today, the President says that there's no more to this law than there is to it. Dear lawmakers, who will decide on the law that has been discussed in Parliament? We give, you give. The president says there is nothing more to this law. Whose word is that?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0400par0060	He sees himself above Parliament?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0061	Do you accept that? [[Yes, the sounds, the noises, from the AK PARTY lines.]] Do you accept custody? If you all agree to receive custody, those words are worthy of you. But I wish you'd throw that word away, too. You have to get up out of here and deny it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0401par0064	By whose will was the president elected?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0402par0065	Whose custody are you on?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0066	I'm picking on all of you. You're all under the President's care. You're trying to pass a law under guardianship.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0402par0067	Whose custody are you under?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0403par0068	He's our leader. Don't be jealous!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0069	You are in violation of the word. You don't belong in this House!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0404par0071	Don't shout!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0403par0072	We're not under custody. We're walking like a fortress behind him!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0073	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the President's duties are clear. The President was sworn here; he swore to the Constitution, to uphold the rule of law. There is a President who violates the Constitution, a President who violates the rule of law, but there is a AKP Group under guardianship who won't speak out against those words. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0405par0075	AK PARTY is a nation, CHP equals custody. The CHP itself is custody.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0076	Come, deny these words. Come, if you have the heart to resist these words of the President. What happened to you? Why are you silent? What kind of MP are you? You must reject those words. You're defending coup law, you're defending custody, and you're not fit for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0406par0078	It doesn't suit you, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0079	Look, I'm being harsh, and none of you can answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0407par0080	We're not taking it into account. They won't take you into account.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0408par0081	We're not getting on that filly, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0082	You all have the right to answer to me one by one.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0407par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0084	Come, speak on this stand, defend yourselves. But you have nothing to defend yourself. I respectfully salute the other members of the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0409par0087	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0410par0088	Let's hear it for the AKP!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0089	Come, speak... come, speak here. I've made promises to all of you. I've teased all of you. Speak here if you have the heart.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0411par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0092	Where are the guardians? You're all coupgers, you're all coupgers!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0412par0093	Please remain calm...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0094	You ate those words...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0412par0095	Calm down, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0413par0096	Mr. President, you're insulting the House, you're silent.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0097	You've mortgaged the will of the National Assembly. You have taken custody of the will of the National Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0412par0098	Please remain calm, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0099	Mr. President, all members of this House must reject the President's statement.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0414par0100	Mr. President, he's insulting the President, and you're silent.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0101	It's the MPs of this House that make this law. The President cannot say, "There is a lack of this law. There is no more."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0415par0102	Mr. Sky, please take your seat. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0104	We reject this custody.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0416par0105	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0399par0106	I'm looking for a brave AKP MP.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0417par0107	You said the answer, and I don't know if they'll answer it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0418par0108	Mr. President, he can't insult the President!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0419par0109	What insult? The President is insulting the House, and you're silent!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0420par0110	Mr. President, our House is under heavy suspicion. There's an attitude that doesn't suit our coven. The AKP people are silent... stand up and answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0421par0111	Now, it's not up to us.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0422par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0423par0113	Are you a public defender or a palace?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0424par0114	Turn around! None of your business!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0425par0115	What do you mean, it's none of your business!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0427par0117	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0118	Mr. President, this nation appreciates whether it suits the House or not. These people give everyone their points as well as they should, and they give them their appreciation. So it's obvious who's good for this House and who's not.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0428par0119	Let them get up and talk, Mr. President, and get up and talk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0120	Secondly...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0429par0121	Mr. President, don't bother.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0428par0122	They can't talk about your Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0123	Secondly...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0430par0124	Mr. Gök, please, I'm listening to Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0428par0125	Mr. President, please take the stand and speak to the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0126	Look, it's obvious who looks good in this House. Secondly...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0428par0128	We ask them, "Do they accept it or do they not accept it?"
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0431par0129	I think he's answering. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0130	Secondly, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0432par0131	Come out of the stand, Ahmet, we can't hear you. We want to hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0433par0132	He made some serious accusations.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0133	Second: It is the duty of the Council of Parliament to protect his law regarding our president, of course.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0434par0134	Protecting people's law...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0426par0135	It's the duty of the nation, and there's a President who protects the law of the nation. The other thing is, we don't take any of those words to the castle. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0435par0139	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0140	Sir, how come they're not taking the fort? Mr. President, how come they're not taking the fort? How come you're not taking the fort?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0437par0142	We don't take it, we don't take it; we don't take it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0143	The President says: "I am giving instructions to AKP MPs. " Do you eat this? Get up, talk here.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0438par0145	We don't buy castles, we don't buy castles.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0146	Get up and talk, how can you be a congressman?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0439par0147	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I invite you all to remain calm.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0148	Mr. President, these words must be eliminated. Do the AKP MPs accept custody or not?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0440par0149	I can see who looks good in this House. It's obvious who doesn't suit this House.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0150	Do you or don't you?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0441par0151	Custody is in your soul, in your soul.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0442par0152	Yes, they answered themselves, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0436par0153	Do they eat the President's words or not? What kind of MPs are they?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0442par0154	I don't know about that. Now, please, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0443par0156	Custody is in your soul. Don't tempt me, we're not going to ride that filler.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0444par0157	It says: "Efficiency belongs to the nation unconditionally. " Sovereignty does not belong to Recep Tayyip Erdogan unconditionally. Get up and talk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0445par0158	We're not buying a fort, guys, we're not buying a fort; just calm down.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0444par0159	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0160	Mr. Sky, please, if you'd like to take your seat, I'd like to present a request...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0447par0161	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0162	Yeah...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0447par0163	Mr. Ahmet Aydın said it is the duty of the House to uphold the President's law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0448par0164	Mr. President, call a doctor, please. Call a doctor, sir. Call a doctor.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0165	For you?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0448par0166	No, sir...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0167	For you?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0448par0168	For me, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0449par0169	Speak up, I'm defending your rights. Get up, get up, talk here.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0170	In that case, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0450par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0172	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0450par0173	The will of the nation, the sovereignty of the nation, is above the presidency. Therefore, those who do not respect the sovereignty of the nation, the law of the nation, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, who wish to be warded by the Parliamentary Assembly... must maintain the House's reputation in the face of these statements, the people's law. (Applause from the ranks of MHP) Therefore, what you must do is to defend the laws of the people, the laws of the people, the laws of the nation, the laws of the nation, the laws of the nation, the laws of the nation, the sovereignty of the nation, the will of the people, not the law of the people. People's law first. There's no law for people who take people under their feet.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0451par0175	Mr. President, the nation sent the President there at 52 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0176	Thank you, Mr. Vural. I have repeatedly stated that everyone must observe the Constitution and the laws of the law.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0451par0178	And the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0179	The Constitution clearly states which tasks will be performed within which framework.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0452par0180	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0181	I'm inviting everyone to follow these rules, sir, as president of the legislature right now.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0453par0182	Let's invite the president. Here we go, here we go, here we go, here we go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0446par0183	Beyond that, lawlessness prevails, which is a non-democracy business, and it's not a democracy. That's the name and definition of illegality. Now there's another...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0453par0185	This is custody, Mr. President. They bought it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0454par0187	They didn't take the fort.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0455par0188	According to Article 58, there is a demand for Mr. Baluken. I'll do it. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0456par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In yesterday's session, I used a sentence when I criticized the Republican People's Party in a sentence of my own: I mean, when you had a ruling party that was so controversial in society, when you had such an eventful security bill in the General Assembly, if you put 35 per cent of the target in front of you as a target, I'm sorry. Here, of course, there's a ruling party that's so debated in your community. When you say it, it's as if there's a favourable ruling party. I want to correct him as a negatively debated, negatively debated ruling party in the community, which crushes the opposition. It's an important correction. Of course, I don't understand why you're trying so hard to crush this opposition. The speakers who come here on behalf of the EC PARTY are almost trying to draw frameworks about how opposition should be and design opposition. Now, it's perfectly normal for you to carry that concern for the HDP. Because you know what kind of fighting tradition HDP has come from. You've thrown tens of thousands of our friends into prisons for 12 years -- our mayors, our city council members, our city council members. You've put all kinds of pressure on the HDP masses on the street. Against HDP, you held 10 per cent of the election dams in the same way, hiding behind coup laws, and did not prevent you from receiving treasury aid in an extremely unfair manner. All of this is an expression of your fear from the HDP, and we find it understandable. Because the HDP is in a huge leap from all sides of Turkey and is making a major breakthrough to ensure public power in Turkey. But I honestly don't understand why you're so alarmed about CHP and MPP. So if I were a ruling party, if there were two opposition parties like this, I'd be more of a supporter than a smasher. Because these two opposition parties have become masters of a practice that has brought you to power under these negative conditions so far. Today you're looking at the election agenda, two agendas. One is Turkey discussing the presidential system, and one is discussing the jump that brought down the 10 per cent threshold of HDP. Unfortunately, the CHP and the MHP are not even reading an esame on the agenda. So, while we're trying to crush the opposition... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we advise you to adhere to more democratic rules. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0457par0203	Thank you, Mr. Baluken. Gene, according to 58..... I will meet the demand to correct Justice Zozani, the MP of Haqkari. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0458par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, you will salt it if it smells of fish while protesting the application of the Council of Presidents, which the Civil Code laid out yesterday according to 13. What do you do if it smells like salt? I told you it would go away. I'm changing the fish sign there to the "x" and I'd like it to go into the transcripts like this. Secondly, Mr. Baluken has just made some assessments of an important point, and I'm really surprised, especially to the ruling party, the Republican People's Party -- the main opposition party -- the Group Vice President -- said things that all of you should object to, but you didn't object. There's a reason...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0459par0210	We didn't buy a castle.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0458par0211	I understand. If you'll excuse me, I won't mean anything negative to you. The Republican People's Party is the easiest-convinced party position in this House, so they're very naive.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0460par0214	That's teasing!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0458par0215	Let me tell you something. Let me tell you. Look, after the 2003 elections, the Republican People's Party appointed 1 MP, Ekrem Elek; AKP 1 MP; Marvan Gül; 1 independent MP. So we're running as DEHAPs, and we've got 33.2 percent of the poetry vote. What did the AKP get? Fourteen percent. What did the CHP get? 7.9%. I'm calling the 2003 elections. The two of you met, you put Fadil Akgundüz, you put the majority of HDP's will aside from the Ziirt, you made a deal. When did you guys get along? December 22, 2003. How did you get along? Mr. Deniz Baykal, then President of the Republican People's Party, and Mr. Erdogan met in İstanbul -- according to the story of Livaneli, in his column -- then you met with Mehmet Sevigen's home in Beysabayi, who was in the position of Secretary General, and you agreed. What happened? The Republican People's Party lost one-third of the MPs, as well as one in the Ziirt elections. Since then, the Republican People's Party has been slapped by the Kurdish people. Why? There, the Kurds ignored their will in Siirt, the will of the Kurdish people in the DEHAP, and agreed with the AKP. Now he turns around and says, "Why aren't we here?" If you're a tool for a flood, a trap, a footplay, that's what you'll become.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0461par0219	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0462par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0461par0221	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0462par0222	Mr. Baluken has just made some very clear taunts. And now Mr. Zozani, in the beginning of 2003, was taunting the head of the period, saying that he had held dark relations, meetings, and that we had been slapped by the Kurdish people, so I want to say, naturally.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0461par0224	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0463par0225	But you've had talks with the AKP, and they've signed no agreements.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0464par0226	Why don't you explain that meeting to me? What did you say? Explain what you said at Mehmet Sevigen's house.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0461par0227	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. You make two promises to pick on each other, and it's yours. First of all, we'll see how much the Republican People's Party is on the agenda of Turkey on June 7th, together, there's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0466par0233	You don't have 11 candidates in 11 locations, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0234	Other than that, it is true, whether the HDP will cross the dam or not, is on the agenda of Turkey. I wish Turkey didn't have such an unnecessary agenda. Had it not been for this: Turkey would have been able to convince the ruling party of this great democracy so-called dam together, but wouldn't it have crossed or crossed the threshold? If we hadn't been busy with this dam. Fearing dams, the rulings drown themselves in the dams. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Bauken, that's the way it is and that's the way it's gonna be. Now it's empty. Politics is a matter of claim, of course. After all, whatever comes out of the trunk, it's more than welcome, I'd like to point out. However, in terms of the process of the Republican People's Party's election, Mr. Zozani said -- in fact, the same issue has just been renegotiated -- our Group Vice President had responded, but it seems to be necessary to explain again. The Republican People's Party, first of all, yesterday, as the Minister of Interior said the day before, is the Constitution of the Revolution, and I do not know this Constitution. There is no lack of reason to say it. If there's a Constitution in the middle, the Republican People's Party has always obeyed it, waiting for everyone to obey it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0467par0237	The Minister said he'd fit in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0238	Yes, the Minister said I wouldn't recognize Anayasa. Minister, in fact, he tried to take a single blow here, the full blow done by the Minister. I don't know the Constitution. What does that mean? If there was a bit of sincerity in the Minister, if there was any honesty in him, he wouldn't be able to come up to the Constitution he had sworn in, then stand up and say, "I don't know this Constitution with the power he took from the Ministry."
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0467par0239	He said we'll sleep.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0240	Everything is said on this bench, but I don't know this Constitution. He won't try!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0468par0241	He didn't... He didn't...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0467par0242	Who threw this? Who threw this Constitution?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0243	I do not recognize this Constitution on this bench. A Minister of the Interior should not remain in that position.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0467par0245	Aren't you the one who launched this Constitution?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0465par0246	You'll have to deal with this first. As for our position on Erdogan, the founder of that party, it was a shame for democracy to not have a man whose name as the president of the united ballot, who had left as the first party with 34 per cent of the vote, to not be here, a Garabetti and we supported. That's the way the nation wants it, so let it sit down. We'd do it again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have respect for democracy, for law. We expect the same respect from you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit08spe0469par0252	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0469par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are three motions on Article 41, one of which is an anti-constitutional motion, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Code of Law and Code of Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Population Services Act; Vice Minister of Law on Laws, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Information Act; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Security Code; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law; 2559th of the Law on the Law and the Law on Human Rights Council of Human Rights Code; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and Agreement of Humanment on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and Adness of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; Agreement of Humanity and Agreement of Humanity of the Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity; The Code of Human Law and Agreement of Human Code of Human Rights Act shall of Human Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law and the Law and the Law of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Security of Security of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human.; Articles, Articles "The minimum 15% of the amount collected from the back capital revenues is used for the purchases of goods and services needed by the Police Academy's president, all kinds of maintenance, repairs, rentals, construction jobs and other needs for the completion of ongoing projects. The Academy Board of Directors is in charge of increasing this rate by 75%." "At least 5% of the part collected from back capital revenues is used to finance scientific research projects conducted within the Academy. The grants for scientific research projects can also be used if necessary by the Academy Board of Directors as an advance for each project. The selection of scientific research projects, implementation and monitoring of grants are determined by the proper regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance to provide an advance regardless of the restrictions on prepayment of general provisions and the proper view of this advance. The return capital management account will be paid to academics and teaching assistants, including those who are in the safety services class, which are divided into months, depending on the rate of the service payment, or on the fact that the services are paid in advance. The procedure and the basis for this are determined by the regulation imposed on the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry." We propose that Article 41 of Article 4652 shall be changed into Article 4 of Article 29 of the Law "15%" in the form of "25%" in the form of Article 4 of Article 29 of the Law, "55%" in the fifth joke added to Article 29 of the Law 4652. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law of Humanity Services Act; Minister of Humanity and the Law on Laws of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministership of Humanity, Ýsakelle İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on Al-Biography; İstanbul Sezgin Godkululululu and Koğişimımı; İstanbul Law on the Laws Office on the Laws Office of Humanment on Humanment; İstanbul Laws Office on the Law; İstanbul Laws Office of Security and the Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law shall be made to Bes Office on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment and Law; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law and Law on Law on Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Law on Human.; İstanbul Law on Law on Law on Human Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human Law on Human Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices "The fourth joke of Article 29 of Law 4652 has been changed as follows and the following jokes have been added to the article. "The minimum 15% of the amount collected from the back capital revenues is used for the purchases of goods and services needed by the Police Academy's president, all kinds of maintenance, repairs, rentals, construction jobs and other needs for the completion of ongoing projects. The Academy Board of Directors is in charge of increasing this rate by 75%." "At least 5% of the part collected from back capital revenues is used to finance scientific research projects conducted within the Academy. The grants for scientific research projects can also be used if necessary by the Academy Board of Directors as an advance for each project. The selection of scientific research projects, implementation and monitoring of grants are determined by the proper regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance to provide an advance regardless of the restrictions on prepayment of general provisions and the proper view of this advance. The return capital management account will be paid to academics and teaching assistants, including those who are in the security services class who have been paid in months, depending on the period of the collection of income in return or on the rate of payment of service due to the payment of the services. The procedure and the basis for this are determined by the regulation imposed on the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry." 41 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer Ali Riza Özturk Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Police Act 684 is currently in session with the Law and the Law Act and the Law Act shall be changed by the 1st article of the Law Bill; the Constitution and the Constitution and the Court of Justice shall be issued and shall propose that Article 41 of the bill be removed from the bill due to violation of the Constitution and its universal law norms and fundamental human rights and that it shall be contrary to the one-party-substantive regime and beyond the police state of law shall be enforced "the state of war" because it is contrary to the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Çüsemettin Zenderlioğlu Demir Çelik Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0470par0037	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0469par0038	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Steel, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0471par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. I have made a pledge on Article 41 of the 684th Amendment. Mr. President, we're dealing with a parliamentary shift that has been postponed for two weeks in a row, and has been spending more and more hours of the night, with considerable effort, tensions and tensions, not only passing through, but with a section of unfair, unlawful and non-political ethics for the sake of society and for the sake of our future. First of all, we have the political blockage that peace, democracy, freedom, the search for rights and justice should be the basis for a section, a group, a person or a group of people, if it has any interests, to bring them to a point where they can't be avoided. If politics is the art of finally solving the problem, the only legitimate democratic way and method of resolving the accumulated problems of the political community is to serve the majority, not the few, not the few, but the majority. Therefore, what needs to be taken is the future of multicultural identity, not of one's nature, status, power, and future. While society is facing hunger and misery today, our 15-percent unemployment, our people who have found 13 million on the edge of hunger, our 30 million people, our peace-seeking peoples, our religious and cultural structures, who have given us the will to resolve all these problems, but we are not the rulers of the legitimate politics that will fulfill the requirements of this power, nor can we be. When we see our rights to disqualify the resources, the hard work of the country and the values of the country, we risk betraying the authority we receive from the people. None of us, nor any of us, have the right to promise to market for politics, to hope for politics, to solve the public's hunger, poverty, poverty, and unemployment problem, to ensure their peace and freedom. He says we can solve it, or we can solve it, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0472par0046	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0473par0047	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0472par0048	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. [[There's an AK PARTY line, there's a noise, there's a noise.]] Why are you yelling so loud, Congressman? I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0474par0053	There are people coming from outside.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0475par0054	There are people coming from outside, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0476par0055	Mr. President, there are people sitting outside.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0477par0057	I beg you very much...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0478par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0477par0059	I mean, it's the MPs who were there when the decision was called enough, so we'll see.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0478par0060	Mr. President, you can't give me a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0477par0061	How many people are out there, how many people are in there, we can't count it at the same time. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0479par0064	Mr. President, they came from outside.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0065	Mr. President, we'd like a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0479par0066	Mr. President, you said... nothing in the reports.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0067	The vote is irregular.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0479par0068	Now, there are hundreds of MPs outside, you need to take a break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0069	Now, with the outside vote, it's not the same.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0481par0070	Now, we did it electronically, sir, because there was a debate with the clerk members about the number. That's it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0479par0071	Well, we're gonna have a little bit of a procedural discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0072	Then shall we discuss the position of the clerks, Mr. President? We're starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0479par0073	I mean, you should've gotten it before you said no.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0074	Yeah, we're having a procedural debate about the vote.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0076	The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0480par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0483par0078	Mr. President, I want a say in this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0079	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0483par0080	I'll state your case, your situation. Now, after we've just finished talking about the proposed motion, we as a group have asked for a sufficient number of decisions. I mean, as a congressman, I asked for the number of decisions that were sufficient.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0082	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0483par0083	By looking at the number of MPs in the room at the time, you said there was not enough of them. You later stated that you had given a minute, as you did not say, on the basis of objections from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0084	Now...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0483par0085	You're saying you've just consulted with the clerks, but you're supposed to do that before you say no. Therefore, there is no sufficient number of decisions in the reports. So you had to pause the merger and make a decision again and look for the number. If you continue like this, we'll have a formal discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0086	Now, let me explain. You can have an interview about my attitude, but I'll give you an explanation, and you might be able to convince me. Now, we do this electronically, sir, in principle, and in practice, when we conflict with the clerk members about the number of decisions we've always made in our practice. When I looked at it, the clerks said there were members, but instead of being in the General Assembly, the MPs immediately came into the General Assembly hall.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0484par0088	Then let them sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0482par0089	Now, when we had this discussion about the number of decisions that were sufficient, we had to do it electronically, and that's how we do it all the time. So if you're going to open up a legal debate on this subject, according to 63.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0485par0090	Lehte.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0486par0091	Lehte.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0487par0092	Lehte.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0488par0093	Against you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0489par0094	Against you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0490par0095	Against you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0491par0096	Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kaplan against Mr. Altay against Mr. Vural. Mr. Aydın. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0492par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of your attitude. However, before we talk about it, I'd like to say that in fact, here, in particular, we're missing the following: it's also very important to consider whether or not every issue can be discussed in terms of procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0493par0104	We'll ask after this!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0492par0105	Here, when we look at Article 63, it is the procedure to ask whether there is room for discussion on the procedure, whether there is room for discussion, whether it is the president's agenda, whether it is an invitation to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whether it is a matter to move forward or to put it back. Now, the House has a 90-year-old experience, a savings, a foundation. Now, just because we're trying to break a law, for God's sake, to break a law, we're going to put the Civil Code aside, and we're going to take down all of the House's regulations. In this sense, Mr. President, we must take into consideration the attempts to block this Civil Code, which is beyond any political ethics.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0494par0107	It's not an attempt to block...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0495par0108	We're trying to make the right law, not stop it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0492par0109	Here, as if it were indiscriminately part of the process... the bullying has now become rustic, rusting in front of the taunts. So all of this has to be taken into account. There's a way of making promises, there's ethics, there's a code of conduct. Dear friends, please, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0496par0111	You should have thought about what this place was when you attacked.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0497par0112	Did you just think of that?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0492par0113	You may not join the law here. In order to break the law, yes, you can also use some of the rights used in the Civil Code, as well as your rights in the Civil Code, and we respect that. But please, in the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, let us hold these talks in a manner worthy of the honor of this nation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0498par0114	What do you mean, Mr. Ahmet? Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0499par0116	Mr. President, please make this right. What does that mean?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0500par0117	Yeah, one day he'll be late, two days late, and I'm telling him nothing. But please, my friends, now, here, the House is in full swing.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0501par0118	Where is free will, free will?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0500par0119	Ninety-five years of experience so far. In the same way, when there is a conflict among the members of the House... there is a meaning to it. If it is said that there is no. Please, dear friends, use your rights, I'm not saying anything, I respect that, but while you're doing this, I mean, you know, with excuses and good intentions being abused, with an abuse of rights...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0502par0121	No good intentions, no good intentions...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0500par0122	Please, friends, I think we all need to pay attention to what we're going to do, what we're going to take, what we're going to do, what we're going to do. So here, the vote was held in accordance with the Civil Code, in accordance with the customs of the House, in accordance with its rules, there is no problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The position of the Council of Parliament is in order. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0503par0128	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Against...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0504par0130	Mr. President, Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak now, but before that, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, who just spoke on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, told all MPs, especially the opposition MPs, to work in accordance with their public dignity.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0505par0131	Did he say it wrong?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0504par0132	There are no opposition MPs here who don't work in accordance with Parliament's dignity.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0505par0133	You've been playing the theatre all morning.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0504par0134	We're using our rights from the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0506par0135	I told you, we respect him, he's fine.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0504par0136	...and we are not in any way in accordance with the Civil Code. We ask you to ask for the minutes, and if this sentence is expressed in such a manner, you must ask Mr. AydınEST to apologize to all opposition MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0506par0138	What else do you have to say... Mr. President, I'll take a chance on an answer.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0507par0140	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0506par0141	Look, Mr. President, it is his common duty here to defend the honor and dignity of all lawmakers with his power and opposition.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0508par0143	He didn't say protection, Mr. President. Ask for the transcripts. Take a ten-minute break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0509par0144	Ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0506par0145	I'm expressing a general area here, where I don't discriminate against the opposition, where every member of parliament has to show maximum sensitivity.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0510par0146	Now, Mr. Aydın, then we'll take a look at the transcripts, if you have any words that go beyond intent, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0506par0147	I did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0510par0148	We'll have the transcripts filed. Against Şırnak MP Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0151	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm going to read the Civil Charter 139, and after reading it -- and I don't want to be unfair to you -- I'm going to make one fact, as the members of the Civil Charter 139, for all of you to know, that the votes are raised by the members of the vote; they stand up in hesitation; and if the five members stand up and propose, the positive and negative vote is divided into two parts in the hall. From now on, we're going to get you up, five members, and we're going to make you count people from the language you understand, like sheep and sheep who say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's exactly how it's done in the House of Lords, that's what these Civil Code decrees require, not by the count of two clerks.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0512par0153	Mr. President, let him apologize, he said like sheep. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0154	Just a minute, Your Honor. In the oldest parliament in the world, even in the House of Lords, when counting, those who say "yes" and "no" are passed through separate doors, they are counted as being passed through individual tourniquets, one, two, three, three, one scratch each pass -- a right number. Here, on the Court, your own clerks sit, and then you don't have enough in the hall when the vote is held, by buying time by the clerks to mislead the President. You don't have enough.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0513par0157	And he's insulting the Presidential Court!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0158	Look, wait a minute, stop cheating now.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0514par0159	They can't live without a trick!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0160	That's what the Civil Code says. From now on, Mr. President, we ask the Presidential Court, when we ask for a sufficient number of decisions, we see that there is hesitation here, five of us will stand up, and those who vote negatively will stand up, and we will count you one by one. There are no outsiders, we'll close those doors, then no running here. Sit here and pass this package... today, you have the patience of Job the Great, I see you are calm, but don't worry, this package will not pass.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0515par0162	It'll pass!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0163	It won't, it won't! Look, put this on your head. This security package is a package that takes Turkey into darkness.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0516par0165	Are you threatening me? According to what, it won't.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0166	So, we'll use our Civil Code rights...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0516par0167	Where is it written in the Civil Code that this law will not be passed?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0511par0168	You will also be counted according to 139, and you will stand up one by one, and we will count those who say, "It is not possible." From now on, we'll count one by one, friends, that's right.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0517par0170	How does it count? How does it count?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0518par0171	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Altay, the Sinop MP at Lehte. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0519par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I always stress something in this Parliament: not if we don't obey our own law as lawmakers. We need to set an example for Turkey, let alone Turkey, for the world to observe the law. In this regard, it has been a problem in Parliament for many years that the vice presidents who lead the session in this parliament have not been united in their positions on these matters. From time to time, at the beginning of the year of the legislature, the Court gathers or the Council of Counsellors gathers, trying to form certain agreements on the matter. However, it will not be witnessed after that. Now, Mr. President, when you looked at the number of decisions that were sufficient, to be really objective, there were not enough decisions, but since both of the clerks were members of the majority party, naturally, they had a conditional reflex, in the tradition of the years. You hesitated, but you didn't. After you passed the verdict, when there was a bit of a buzzing in here and the doors opened and the MPs stormed into the General Assembly Hall with their hands up, you searched for the number of decisions -- perhaps the fatigue of the night -- with an electronic vote. Actually, that wasn't necessary. You have to be realistic. Five minutes won't cost anyone anything. These things need to be based on something. I also admit that when the ruling party members sit down, one from the ruling party, and one from the opposition party, there's still a problem. While Mr. Kaplan was just talking, I was really wondering if I should bring up those five people's standing up. Mr. Kaplan acted first. That's how the Civil Code rules, which can be done. We're asking the members of the ruling party to sit here, as long as they're asked every five minutes, so don't go out too much, friends. This law is your law, you will pass it. 20 is enough for the opposition. You have to sit here, in and out. And I know you're grumbling at us. We're using our rights, and we'll keep using them. Come, sit here, make your law. Or, it's one o'clock, let's go home and pick it up tomorrow. There's no other way; there's no need to put the president and the Court in jeopardy. But, I don't know, if the HDP wants to implement this five-person issue, we will, of course, support the HDP on this issue, which is a right from the Interior Charter. So, I think you'd better sit in the General Assembly now, aside from the urgent needs. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0520par0181	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Against Aydın MP Ali Longırmak. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0521par0184	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, of course, Mr. President made a mistake when he was looking for the sufficient number of decisions. It's a virtue to turn back from error, but Mr. President didn't break any rules. I've always known Mr. President as someone who's committed to democracy and not breaking any rules, and I thank you for his behavior today because it wasn't intentional. Of course, some people can understand this in terms of gassing; they don't appreciate values; they avoid facts in a bigotry way, while they look at things as if they're not from me, or they're looking at them as if they're not from a bigotry. Of course, Mr. President, I said that he didn't break any rules, and in that way, I thank them. And he came right back. It's a human error, we all can. Dear friends, democracy is such a beautiful regime that it offers us all kinds of opportunities, but some people just can't understand it. Perhaps a year ago, CHP MP Sevki Kulkuloğlu and another friend of ours committed the same crime at the same time, would they remember that Şevki Kulkuloğlu was punished here and not punished by our friend from AKP Group at the same time? Do our friends know on what basis the members of the Presidential Court, who didn't even respect those parliamentary minutes, were raising their fingers when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was convened just the other day, in accordance with the Parliament's minutes, when they were asked to make a decision, that the number of decisions were enough, and the number of decisions were enough? When you get all of this right, let the members of the group, who are talking about Parliament's metaphor, the cradle of democracy, be a little more careful. I'm just saying, let it be a lesson to all: The vulture's name is vulture, but he doesn't give up on carrion, because his name is aka. They eat carcasses.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0522par0192	You're rude!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0521par0193	Why do you take it personally, why do you take it personally? Do you eat carcass or carrion, why are you offended?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0523par0194	Keep puking your guts out, tell them what you're made of, go on!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0521par0195	Of course, it is clear to us from yesterday to today who our companions are in our lives. Our traveling companions are known. Our companions are the sons of the great Turkish nation in the Turkish nation, not others. With bribes, money, stamps, corruption, all sorts of betrayal, we can't be friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] God willing, we're all with our martyrs, don't worry. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0524par0200	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Congressmans, I'd like to make one thing clear again. Now, in 1998, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey entered the system of voting with electronic devices in this General Assembly, and in the 49th Union of the General Assembly, dated 13/8/1998, as a result of the procedural debate, it made a decision on when and how these votes would be carried out with electronic devices, and it was presented to the General Assembly's approval, sir, and when the General Assembly agreed to this, it came to our conclusion so far. For him, the way I've been doing it, the way I've been running for president all this time, the way it's been done in accordance with this board. You know, there's no complete change in certain Civil Code provisions, but when this electronic voting system is passed, it's an internal charter written before the internal voting system, so when they submit it to the approval of the General Assembly, it comes as a committee, and, you know, our General Assembly, the General Assembly of Turkey, is governed in accordance with both the internal code and the regulations. For him, what I'm doing is an appropriate application for this process. For that, sir, I hereby declare to you that what I have done in this manner of discussion is correct, and that I will continue my attitude and my conduct in this manner.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0525par0203	Mr. President, I apologize, in a way that supports your position, and there's a decision like that from the Council of Parliament, and I'll tell you that there's a verdict dated 5/10/1998.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0524par0204	I mean, of course, Mr. Aydın, I've made my statement. The General Assembly's decision, of course, is above all. Now I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "The fourth joke of Article 29 of Law 4652 has been changed as follows and the following jokes have been added to the article. "The minimum 15% of the amount collected from the back capital revenues is used for the purchases of goods and services needed by the Police Academy's president, all kinds of maintenance, repairs, rentals, construction jobs and other needs for the completion of ongoing projects. The Academy Board of Directors is in charge of increasing this rate by 75%." "At least 5% of the part collected from back capital revenues is used to finance scientific research projects conducted within the Academy. The grants for scientific research projects can also be used if necessary by the Academy Board of Directors as an advance for each project. The selection of scientific research projects, implementation and monitoring of grants are determined by the proper regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance to provide an advance regardless of the restrictions on prepayment of general provisions and the proper view of this advance. The return capital management account will be paid to academics and teaching assistants, including those who are in the security services class who have been paid in months, depending on the period of the collection of income in return or on the rate of payment of service due to the payment of the services. The procedure and the basis for this are determined by the regulation imposed on the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry." 41 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0526par0217	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0524par0218	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0527par0222	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the public on the outside, think we're doing business here, too. Everything that's done in this Parliament is wrong from A, to Z. Let's put this in our heads once and for all. If someone goes against the law, others have the right to go against the law. If someone doesn't really follow the rules of ethics, neither do the others. If someone abuses the law's rights, so do the others. So, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if you impose this law against Parliament's Civil Code and its regulations in order to satisfy the pleasure of it, you will suffer the opposition's actions as well. I mean, why don't you, my dear friends, think yourself, that the opposition is abusing the right that you're entitled to, but as power, why don't you think you're being abused? As a congressman, I'd like to point out that I'm sorry for this painting. Dear MPs, now, why are you against this bill, and why are you against it? We say so all the time. Still, sir, let them bring their proposals, let them meet us... I'll explain them here one by one as I come up with the proposals, which is already in the... Now, for example, in Article 1 of this law, a amendment is being made to the law that gives the police the authority to ask for identification and stop. Now, the current ruling already has the right of police to take necessary measures on a person or vehicle with a dangerous or security-threatening substance on it -- according to the current law. However, the exception is that the police can't search the person or search the invisible parts of the vehicle. Why can't he call? Because searching for unaccounted-for materials is a forensic search. We need a judge's decision to make this forensic call, because that's the job of a trial. Again, on the other hand, the search of items on the person cannot be searched for personal papers or belongings unless the 20th article of the Constitution is very clear, according to the order of the judge. Now, what's being done with the verdict? When there is no judge's decision, the police will stop the vehicle at any time and any type of call they want, which we call manual search, rude search is always available, but other than that, they will search the invisible parts of the vehicle without a judge's ruling, which means they will do forensics. Other than that, he'll be able to ask someone to take off their clothes. Now, I'm telling you one thing, we're all lawmakers, you have a former Home Secretary in you. Now, our Home Secretary is the former Home Secretary tomorrow, he's on his way, not the deputy, but the police stopped him. He said I'll call you. He said, "The pleasure is needed." Now, when three people were killed in Hakkari, dear, didn't you say that it was the police from the congregation? Maybe, because that cop was angry with the Home Secretary, and he stopped, and he said, "I'll call you." He said, "I'll even ask him to undress if he has a wife." Is that the right thing to do, fellas? Without a judge's decision... Look, there's wiretaps, it's terrible. On the one hand, how is it that even the Prime Minister's office has been bugged and has listened to the police ministers? You say, "It's not a disgrace." But you give the police authority over authority. Now, our Constitution is very clear here, and no one can use authority that is not based on the Constitution. The judicial search for a trial is the work of a judicial judge, the job of a prosecutor, the decision has to be made first. Therefore, it is not acceptable for you to give the police authority that is not based on the Constitution. Also, the so-called order is being brought in. For God's sake, friends, there is no such thing as a verbal order in both the Constitution and the Penal Code. Now, do you know what this looks like when the police submit it to the judge's approval in 24 hours after the search? It's just that, you know, there's been a lot of procedural debates, and there's been enough decision-making, so it's kind of like that, so it doesn't have any effect on the procedure anymore. Here the police will make a search, then it will be submitted to the judge's approval to legitimize the search, after the work is done, after the actions are completed. This is not acceptable to the state of law, my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0528par0230	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0529par0233	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0528par0234	You have a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Ayadin, Mr. Öğütün, Mr. Serker, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Aksünger, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Susam, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Code of Law and Code of Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Population Services Act; Vice Minister of Law on Laws, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Information Act; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Security Code; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law; 2559th of the Law on the Law and the Law on Human Rights Council of Human Rights Council of Human Rights; Articles and Agreement of Humanment of Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity; The Code of Human Law on Humanity and Agreement of Humanity of the Law on Humanity of Humanity; The Code of Human Code of Human Code of Human Rights and Agreement of Human Rights and Agreement of Human Rights and Agreement of Humanment of Humanment of HumanLaw ; The Code of Humanment of Security of Security of Humanment of Security of Human Law on Human Law and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace andAgrees "The minimum 15% of the amount collected from the back capital revenues is used for the purchases of goods and services needed by the Police Academy's president, all kinds of maintenance, repairs, rentals, construction jobs and other needs for the completion of ongoing projects. The Academy Board of Directors is in charge of increasing this rate by 75%." "At least 5% of the part collected from back capital revenues is used to finance scientific research projects conducted within the Academy. The grants for scientific research projects can also be used if necessary by the Academy Board of Directors as an advance for each project. The selection of scientific research projects, implementation and monitoring of grants are determined by the proper regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance to provide an advance regardless of the restrictions on prepayment of general provisions and the proper view of this advance. The return capital management account will be paid to academics and teaching assistants, including those who are in the safety services class, which are divided into months, depending on the rate of the service payment, or on the fact that the services are paid in advance. The procedure and the basis for this are determined by the regulations imposed on the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry.In the fourth joke of Article 4652 in the form of Article 4652 in the form of Article 29, we propose and propose that the "5%" of the "15%" clause added to Article 29 of Law 4652 be changed into "15 percent." Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0530par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0528par0252	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0531par0255	Mr. Erkan Akçay, our Manisa MP.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0528par0256	Mr. Erkan Akçay, our Manisa MP on the motion, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0532par0258	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 41st Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, what is the most decisive feature of the Justice and Development Party's rule, and what is its quality, the most important feature, dear friends, is that the Justice and Development Party is in a very extreme desire for power, even a power fetish. Authority too, infinite authority! So much so that the Constitution is an eternal and unendurable authority that will bring the Constitution to its knees, without law, without order, with no state's rule, with no tradition, with no understanding of Parliament's vision. In all administrations, in public administration or in the administration of any company, the responsibility and responsibility go parallel to one another, but the AKP has the authority, no responsibility. If you're using authority, you have to take responsibility, but the Justice and Development Party has escaped responsibility in all cases. His laws, especially in the last few years, are all intended to ignore these responsibilities, to avoid responsibility. Again, this domestic security bill is an arrangement that raises, enhances, but ignores responsibilities. Police are unable to carry out many of the powers and responsibilities of the Law on Duty and Authority, and with these new regulations, there will be a great deal of government chaos. The verbal order... you give the verbal order here as authority, how will who take responsibility for the outcome of this? Everybody's gonna throw it at each other. Especially since the day this law began to be discussed, I've been trying to study the matter in detail as possible, and sometimes I see the arrangements that give me the creeps. There will be administrative chaos, chaos of governance. Therefore, in a system that clearly ignores the Constitution and laws from the president to the minister, a state that is underfoot can't govern the clan, not with this mentality. Because even the tribe sees a tradition that lasts many years. Tradition, precedent, unfortunately, is being tried to destroy. This can also be seen in the positions, behavior and rhetoric of the Justice Development Party or members of the government. We discussed here that Mr. Bostanci was trying to define the state through violence, referring to various thinkers. He defines it according to violence: legitimate violence, illegitimate violence. That's what the dervishe thinks. Mr. Group Vice President Ahmet Aydın Bey, on the days of these talks, remember who can oppose this law? Only those who have a tendency to commit a crime can object to this law. And then he said he was sorry to himself and to the MPs. However, Mr. Group Vice President must also apologize to the nation for this statement because it appears that such abstract and prejudicial approach has been seen as almost a reasonable suspect of almost 77 million. And besides, it's a confession again. The citizen wants to walk free. This is a confession. The citizen of the Republic of Turkey can't travel freely, I'm afraid. The citizen wants to travel in an environment of safety and safety of life and property. He's not feeling the safety of life and property, citizen. He wants to walk free in the park with his kid without a ball bearing on his head. He wants to open his shop freely. Yeah, he wants to open it, but he can't, he's worried. He wants a free ride on the city bus. And it's pretty clear who threw the Molotov at the city bus.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0533par0268	That's the package against them.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0532par0269	Hopefully, we'll have access to other issues in the future. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0534par0272	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0535par0274	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0534par0275	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. [[There's, there's, there's... There's voices.]] It'd be better if you didn't declare its existence, lawmakers. That's why we're standing here and looking at it, sir. Our clerks are counting, don't worry. Yes, sir, it's not accepted. Now, Mr. Baluken, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0536par0283	Thank you, Mr. President, for your promise. I have made a commitment to inform the General Assembly on a very important matter and to demand the government's right to inform the General Assembly. President of the Republican People's Party, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, said in a television programme he attended tonight that he had a process concerning the closure of the Republican People's Party and that they had some information and documents on the matter and that the information and documents would soon be released to the public. First of all, we know that the president of a political party that received millions of votes will not speak in vain and into the void.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0537par0287	We don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0536par0288	The guarantee of democratic development in democracy are political parties that advocate different ideas. Even political parties who advocate the most irregular ideas are very important for the democratic future of all our peoples to conduct their political activities freely. As the successor of a political tradition that paid the ultimate price for political party closures and suffered the pain of this, we, the People's Democratic Party, would like to say that if such a quest exists, we clearly condemn it. If there is a process in which the country's most radical political party has been shut down, or if the allegations are now being made in public, we will ask Mr. Secretary General to inform the General Assembly, which is here on behalf of the government. Again, in the same way, we would like to ask you to share with the General Assembly on the search for closure of this political party of yours, representing will, the will of the nation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0538par0290	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0539par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. The closure of political parties has taken place in Turkey's process of democracy, which has been an important problem in our history for many years, and has been a shame. It's true what our President-General said today in a statement he made on a television station. At our party, our President-in-Chief has a search for a conspiracy in which there is a conspiracy and a set of false documents, information and so on... we have the information we need on this matter. We'll explain it when the time comes, of course. However, the government has no way or no way to explain it, Mr. Baluken. We know where this was set up. But it's not for the people who make this scam to even think about shutting down the Republican People's Party. Let's get down to brass tacks. The Republican People's Party is a party that will exist as long as the world stops. That's it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0540par0298	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0541par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0540par0300	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0542par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there's already a bet. First of all, and first of all, I'd like to say that as the AK PARTY Group, we've gone all the way against closing the party, and in the meantime, we're completely against closing the party as a group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At this point, again, we're a paid political party. Remember, they wanted to shut down a party that was alone with 47 per cent of the vote in 2007, there was a closed-down case that lasted until 2008, and it came back from the pole by 1 vote, with 1 vote. Alone, they tried to close it with a vote of 47 percent that this nation has brought to power. Earlier, parties closed, unfortunately closed, and Turkey turned into a closing party cemetery. We don't think that's true, and in that sense, we've also brought the arrangement to eliminate all party closures in the amendment before the 2010 referendum. We've made our will very clear about this, but if you remember those days, unfortunately, it didn't go through, despite all our efforts, unfortunately, it didn't get through, not enough numerical majority. We didn't get any serious support for that. And in that sense, there have been some arrangements to make it very difficult to shut down the party altogether, even though we can't make it that the parties aren't shut down completely. But what we want, and what we want, is that if there's a group of people who want parties, corporate personalities, not to be punished, not to be shut down, if there's a reason to shut down the party, their personal responsibilities are born. And if they support that, we're always ready for the Constitutional Amendment. We'd like to eliminate all party closures. Second of all, about this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President, if...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0543par0311	If you open it, let's give him one more minute and let him finish.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0542par0312	If the main opposition leader has some information and documents on this issue, it must be shared with the public first, and in that sense, we are not the main opposition, but our will to ensure that no party is shut down. The main opposition, especially the CHP, is a long-standing party in this country. We don't want this party to be shut down, we don't want another party to be shut down. I believe the arrangements on this matter must be made and the constitutional arrangements must be made at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0544par0315	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0545par0318	Mr. President, thank you. Today, yes, there are some questions that have been asked in our press conference today that suggest that there will be some attempts to shut down the National Movement Party. Indeed, at this point, we know that those who can't stand the presence of the Nationalist Movement Party in Parliament, who are creating listening, monitoring teams on the National Movement Party, are uncomfortable with nationalism and the struggle for democracy of the Nationalist Movement Party. We know exactly where people and people who follow the wiretaps and monitors and do it do it. The mentality that came to say, "We will remove the immunity of those who are with the terrorists, those who embrace them." The mindset that later seeks to legitimize the PKK and shut down the DP shows the existence of an anti-nationalist mindset such as the Universe on September 12th. We obviously want to say that we don't approve of the principles of democracy of a political party who sees violence as a tool of violence, that we don't approve of the principles of democracy as a tool, that democracy should be protected in terms of violent parties on this axis, and that we obviously don't find it right to use democracy as a tool to justify violence and terrorism, but I also have an answer here: the people who set up the Nationalist Movement Party in 2011, the ones who use it in the squares, we know very well who are doing what they are doing today, but they're not born from their mother. Thus, Turkey is really narrow to those who will take steps towards the National Movement Party. Let me put it this way.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0546par0321	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Congressmans, you all know very well that political parties are the indispensable element of democracy and that there should be no dams for the full representation of the nation. I say it's the duty of all political parties here to bring down election dams and ensure that the nation's will is completely reflected in this General Assembly. I'm calling on all of you for full democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I submit Article 41 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 41 is accepted. There are two motions for a new substance violation, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendment in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; Law Order for Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Adition Act on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Order for Change in the Law; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Council of Law, 2559 Vice Minister of Laws and Laws of Laws on Human Rights, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4. "The minimum 15% of the amount collected from the back capital revenues is used for the purchases of goods and services needed by the Police Academy's president, all kinds of maintenance, repairs, rentals, construction jobs and other needs for the completion of ongoing projects. The Academy Board of Directors is in charge of increasing this rate by 75%." "At least 5% of the part collected from back capital revenues is used to finance scientific research projects conducted within the Academy. The grants for scientific research projects can also be used if necessary by the Academy Board of Directors as an advance for each project. The selection of scientific research projects, implementation and monitoring of grants are determined by the proper regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance to provide an advance regardless of the restrictions on prepayment of general provisions and the proper view of this advance. The return capital management account will be paid to academics and teaching assistants, including those who are in the safety services class, which are divided into months, depending on the rate of the service payment, or on the fact that the services are paid in advance. The procedure and the basis for this are determined by the regulation imposed on the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry." After Article 41 in the shape of Article 41, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. "MEDDE Article 42 - 4652 has been changed once to "two times" in the first verse of Article 28 of the Law. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0547par0338	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0546par0339	It's been moved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law of Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice President of Humanity Services; İstanbul MP İskdemir Kashdemir's Proposal on the Law on Amendment; İstanbul Law on Information Act on Information; İstanbul's Committee on Human Rights Amendments and Law on Human Rights; Ministership of Human Rights on Peace; İstanbul MP İstanbul Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğişimullulululululululululu; İstanbul Laws Office on the Law; İstanbul Commission on Humanity of Law on Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Office of Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Rights Office; The Law on Human Law on Human Rights; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights; The Law on Human Rights; The Code of Human Rights; The Law on Human Code of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights; The Code of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law and Law and Law on Human Rights; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Rights; An.; An.; An Office of Human Rights After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0548par0344	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0546par0345	It's been moved. There are three motions on Article 42, one of which is a violation of the Constitution, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act on Humanity Laws and Amendments in the Law; İstanbul MP L. L. Knakkale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law; İstanbul Law on Human Rights Amendment to Change; İstanbul Laws Office on Human Rights Law on Laws Laws Laws Laws Laws and Agreements (AS) and Agreement on Humanment on Humanment on Humanity of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity of Laws Laws Laws Laws Law on Humanment on Humanity, Articles on Humanity, Articles on Humanity, Articles on Humanity, Articles, Articles on Human Laws, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles of Law on Human Law, Articles, Articles Offices Offices, Articles Offices Office of Law on Information, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles of Law on Information, Articles of Human, Articles, Articles, Articles of Human, Articles, Articles of Laws, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles of Information, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles of Human, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles, Articles of Information, Articles, Articles, Articles, Article of "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" of this Law is understood by the "Police Chiefs Training Centre," by the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre, by the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education, by the definitions of Police Chiefs Education Centre, by the terms of "Isans" We offer and propose that the 42nd article in shape be replaced in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu D. Ali Torlak Ahmet Duran Bulut S. Nevzat Don't Fear "The following article is added to the Law No. 42 - 4652. "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" in this Law is understood by the "Police Chiefs Training Centre" in the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre, "Development" in the terms of Police Chiefs Education Directorate, "Isans" in the terms of the law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The following article is added to Law 4652. "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" in this Law is understood by its terms as "Police Chiefs Training Centre," "Development Director of Police Chiefs Education," "Development Department of Police Chiefs Education" and "Isans" by its definitions." 42. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Serindağ Ali Sarıbaş Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Celal Dinçer Binnaz Earth Now, the motion I'm going to make you read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to make you read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the bill of law shall be removed and proposed because of the violation of the Constitution and Article 42 of the Constitution and Article 42 of the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal law norms and fundamental human rights and that the only party -- one man -- beyond the dictatorship regime and the police state -- should apply the actual "warning state" because of violation of the Constitution. Iron Steel Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0549par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0546par0375	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0550par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, democracy and Parliament mean power plus opposition. However, during this mastery period, you have eliminated the opposition, and with your majority of the Parliament, you have begun to convert Parliament into a law factory with instructions given to you when you are a majority; it is neither unhealthy, unhealthy, incompatible, nor in accordance with universal principles, nor in accordance with the Constitution, nor in accordance with the constitution, nor in accordance with the conscience. So, it wasn't enough -- of course, I'm sorry to say this, but I'll tell you -- you've set up a 45-day work agenda, all 24 hours until it's over. You're subcontracting lawmakers in parliament like subcontractors beyond subcontractors.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0551par0382	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0550par0383	You subcontractorized it. Even subcontractors have a schedule. You subcontracted the House, not just yourself, not the opposition.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0552par0384	Why?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0550par0385	Look, there's no Parliament in the world that works 45 days, 24 hours a day. You can easily enter the Guinness Book of Records, immediately submit your application. You don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know. You've made yourself miserable. On February 21st, you think you've made some progress with a coup d'état, but believe me, when you get to Article 132, you'll see your battery run out, your fuse goes out.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0552par0387	Well, you'll never see him.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0550par0388	Now let's forget about that, now, what happens if this package of fascism passes, and I'll tell you about it, and tomorrow you can tell your children and your grandchildren. Once this package passes, they'll watch you, they'll listen to you, they'll watch you, they'll follow you, they'll look for you, they'll look for you, they'll undress you. When you start using your smallest democratic rights, they'll gas you, beat you, shoot you. You will not always be in power; you will enter into your vehicle, and your house, and you will have a decree. He will say, "You will be in prison for forty-eight hours, and you will be a dick." And there's no prosecutor, there's no judge, there's no lawyer, there's no lawyer, there's no defense, there's no case review, there's no surveillance. There's one thing left, governors of power, appointees, trustees. And if you have an uncle who's going to be assigned to you after the liquidation of this package, and if you can get to him, maybe you'll be able to get out of jail early. Because you leave no law to the citizen, no justice to the citizen. You will destroy the prosecutor, the judge, the lawyer, justice, independent justice, and in such a arbitrary administration, everyone will be guilty and believe me, most of all, you will suffer from it. People of power, you're making yourselves suffer these days, so stop this masochistic politics. Do not wrong yourselves, pity your children. Go sit with them for a while, have some breakfast, have dinner, what's this, you're torturing yourselves, you're torturing the council, you're committing to 77 million people, isn't that a sin? In Islam, in religion, in faith, to work as a slave, for God's sake, tell me. I think you're having a bit of a bad conscience.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0553par0392	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0554par0395	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0553par0396	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öğün, Mr. Sütün, Mr. Serker, Mr. Aker, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Ozkoc, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Sun, Mr. Özkes... I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0555par0401	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit09spe0553par0402	Okay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0553par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 684. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the other motion on Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The following article is added to Law 4652. "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" in this Law is understood by its terms as "Police Chiefs Training Centre," "Development Director of Police Chiefs Education," "Development Department of Police Chiefs Education" and "Isans" by its definitions." 42. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0556par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0553par0012	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Dear Earth, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0016	It's hard to walk at this hour.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0553par0017	Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been sitting here with our feet numb, so I'm afraid I couldn't walk fast. This 42nd article is what you call a faculty at police training centers, what you call a dean, what you call them. At this time of night, I swear, I can't talk about it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0558par0021	I'm teasing you. I'm teasing you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0022	Yes, I will answer your taunt. What do you call faculty and dean? I can't talk about this. I want to tell you that for four years, under this roof, every day is God's day, but every day, there's something the AKP's friends tell us, and that's this: we represent the nation, the nation voted for us, we do what we want.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0559par0025	We're not saying that at all.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0026	Now, I'd like to say a few words about that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0560par0027	We mean we can do what people want, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0028	For one thing, the nation voted for us and we do what we want. I want to tell you that his idea is both against democracy and contrary to the idea of representation. For once, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0561par0030	Teacher, look behind you. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0031	The AKP is not representing the nation by itself. Look what it says here: "Affliction belongs to the nation unconditionally. "
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0561par0032	We're just doing what people say.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0033	Guys, 75 million people. You only got 49 percent of that 75 million in 2011, and you don't know what you're going to get in this election.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0562par0034	49% of the vote, not 75 million.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0563par0035	55 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0036	It's obvious from the polls that he's not 55. Now, therefore, both the AKP MPs -- if this is representation -- represent the MPs of the three opposition parties sitting here. So beyond that, the AKP, unfortunately, may have claimed that it had won the election for 12 years -- and especially in recent years -- our former Prime Minister, our current President, with his divisive speech, polarizing the people, unfortunately, and unfortunately, it has only represented the AKP voter, and I want to say this once. The second thing I want to say is that the virtue of democracy is not that the public chooses power. So this election is considered the simplest sign of democracy in political science, and especially if you've limited democracy to democracy, with it, with the election, it's not enough, it's not enough, but yes. There is or there isn't enough, but yes. The real virtue of democracy is that it's the right to speak to the opposition within and outside the House. Look, the Republican People's Party, in particular, is the most sensitive and the only sensitive party in parliament to the right of the opposition.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0564par0040	Come on, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0041	You know... it's relevant. We fought for the Civil Code change here...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0564par0043	What did we do?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0565par0044	What are we doing?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0045	...because the AKP's friends, the AKP's government, were trying to keep the opposition quiet, and we fought a big fight here, while our friends were being beaten up, and the members of the MP and HDP watched us, and they didn't even help us, that's true. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Now, I'm going to say that choice is everything. It's not really called democracy, it's what the political scientists call it. Why is he competitive? He's competitive but bossy because there's an election.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0566par0048	Teacher, do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0049	As a matter of fact, Turkey has been unfortunately put on the side of illiberal democracies or competitive authoritarian systems, which have recently been removed from the category of democracy in some very important newspapers and some scientific journals abroad.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0567par0050	Teacher, you haven't followed anything in four years. You're off the air, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0051	Now, look, democracy is a compromise regime. Compromise means negotiation, mutual compromise means taking advantage of different ideas, which means creating common intelligence. This is the meaning of the word "Parliamento" (Parliamento). Parliament comes from the Latin word "parliament" to talk. Tell me, for God's sake, when have we been talking about what in this House for four years?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0568par0052	Teacher, result: AK PARTY power, AK PARTY; no stopping, keep going.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0053	There's a cacophony here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like now, there's no telling what anyone's saying. Neither the motions of the three opposition parties nor the proposals of the law were accepted here once.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0569par0056	Dear Earth, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0557par0057	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0570par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0569par0060	Mr. Zozani, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0570par0061	Mr. Land teased our group in his speech. We'd like to exercise our right to answer without bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0569par0062	What did he say?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0570par0064	When we were being beaten here, you rubbed your hands and watched.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0569par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0571par0066	Why does he command, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0569par0067	I need to know what he said and why he called it teasing. I beg you very much, we don't make random promises. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, don't use mobbing like that, we're here to talk. [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] Now, let's agree here that this Civil Code connects us all.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0573par0075	But he doesn't tie you up.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0076	Now, if you bring in a job in accordance with this Civil Code, this business will be discussed and passed here without a problem, but if you bring in a business that is contrary to the Civil Code, we have to argue here. Look, we've told you from day one that the work you've brought here, this bill, it's against the 73rd Amendment. In addition, during your administrations, in 2005, we found that the Laws and Decisions Department, which is currently the guide of Parliamentary Laws and Decisions, is a violation of the 21st Amendment of the Convention, which we have demonstrated with its evidence and evidence. Again, you've raised the bill to 132 articles that came in as 43 articles. Article 73 says: "You have to clearly state the reasons for the bill you have brought in. This is not enough. The Civil Code has opened and explained in Article 21 of the Law on drafting Article 73, which states how the reasons will be prepared. But look, the bill we're discussing today, 89 articles of this bill have no grounds, no grounds.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0574par0079	That's the general reason.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0080	Mr. Shuay, there's no common cause, I wish there was. And it doesn't, even if it's part of the general reason, but no, there's got to be a separate reason.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0575par0081	Every item has its reasons, and you haven't studied yet.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0082	Now, look, guys, we've been discussing this for days, we've been trying to explain it to you, and you've been trying not to understand it, and we've brought it, it's true, it's the way it is. You say, we're forced to try to correct this wrong process using our right to the opposition here. We're not trying to block anything here. We're trying to fix what's wrong here. It's our duty, these precious Regents, that we do this.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0576par0083	The Supreme Court...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0084	Fix it. We propose to you again: bring it, let's make it right, let's make it right, let's make it right. To the enforcer of the law...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0577par0086	Proposals on matter, suggestions...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0087	Let's set it up properly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0577par0088	Do you have any suggestions on the matter?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0089	We have suggestions, sir. We have suggestions. Mr. Goody, I told you a week ago what our suggestions were on this stand, please look at the records.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0578par0090	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0572par0091	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0578par0092	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0579par0093	Mr. President, Mr. Land has made it seem as if we've taken no stand for the Civil Code proposal by accusing our party as if we've embraced it. Mr. Nevzat won't be afraid to explain the nationalist Movement Party's position, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0578par0094	Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0580par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good morning. Mr. Binnaz Earth Ma'am has just arrived, especially in this proposal by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, as if only the Republican People's Party opposes and the other opposition parties and the Nationalist Movement Party did not support or oppose it. This has nothing to do with the truth. Because the National Movement Party has always told the Civil Code that a compromise should be made in order for the entire General Assembly to exercise democratic rights. The proposal brought by the Justice and Development Party was an offer to take all the obstruction opportunities the opposition had and to make it an application manual for the ruling party.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0581par0099	Nevzat Bey, let's use the Turkish Civil Code, Turkish. Let's use Turkish, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0580par0100	I mean, friend, I'll tell you all about the Civil Code now, but...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0582par0101	Please, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0580par0102	We don't really have time for this, and we don't have the time to figure it out.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0582par0103	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0580par0104	I'm just saying, my friends, that the Civil Code was made in 1973, when Parliament was two-winged, at a time when the Senate and the National Assembly had a military coup on it, but the Civil Code couldn't be changed. Two commissions have been set up to change the Civil Code in the 23rd and 24th term. As a friend of yours who served both of these commissions, I've been in this work since the beginning. Dear friends, a text was about to come out during the last 24th century -- remember, please -- in the last 24th century. In this text, the Justice and Development Party in particular pressured the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to eliminate this commission, especially because its demands were not met, and the Speaker of Parliament knows that despite all our objections, our colleagues on the commission -- they eliminated this commission, the Interior Charter Compromise Commission. Right now, the Justice and Development Party, I'm sure, deeply regretting it, but it's over. So, look, we're here today to discuss a bill of law. You'll regret it tomorrow, but after it's too late, sir, there's no point in hitting your knees, banging your head against the walls. You'll change it in time. We tell Ms. Binnaz: You may have forgotten those days at this time of night, the National Movement Party has resisted using its democratic rights here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0583par0109	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0584par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0583par0111	Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0584par0112	The speaker used my name to say something, but I didn't hear it. Please...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0583par0114	Congressman, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0584par0115	He said something with my name. I heard you use my name, but I didn't hear the rest. Please turn on the microphone, that part again, so I can hear what he's saying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0583par0116	Dear Earth, I don't understand what you're asking for.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0584par0117	Now, in the beginning, the speaker said that I used my name to use a false statement, a false statement, so he made a statement as if I was lying.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0585par0118	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. President, he just might have forgotten.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0586par0119	He called you a liar.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0587par0120	I mean, you took it that way, he didn't say anything like that, but that's what you called it. Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0588par0123	Mr. Hodja, say I didn't forget.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0124	What?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0588par0125	He just told you he might have forgotten.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0590par0126	Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, our friend from the MHP is here to see my...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0591par0130	What's his name?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0131	I don't have to talk the way you want.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0591par0133	But what's his name?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0592par0134	Please do not speak to each other, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0135	He said I used the wrong expression.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0593par0136	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0137	That's what I heard, sir, he used a false statement, an expression that had nothing to do with the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0593par0138	He may have forgotten those days. He just said.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0139	What does that mean? So he lied, lied about us... Now, look, I was on that case. We had a huge struggle here, and the image that I had in mind was that the MHP was actually sitting there watching.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0594par0141	It's true.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0142	He repeated the same thing at 4+4+4. Both the MPP and the HDP 4+4+4 did not support us even though we were fighting a major battle.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0594par0143	They watched, they didn't, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0144	I'd like to bring this up because, really, the CHP has been constantly involved in a lot of...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0595par0145	Teacher, the election is happening on the field, not here.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0589par0146	...is being left under the table. This is the only success story of all opposition parties in the House, which we actually resisted because we were able to stop it, and we didn't get any help from both parties in stopping it, and I want to do it again, just like at 4+4+4. And so -- and I'm very sorry -- but the image that I had in mind was that you were sitting there, not a false statement. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0596par0149	Thank you, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0597par0150	Mr. President, Mr. Earth has stated that our party regarding the 4+4+4 has no attitude. So, he made a tease. We'd like to respond to this taunt, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0596par0151	It's about 4+4+4...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0597par0152	He stated that we did not have any attitude regarding 4+4+4. About that...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0598par0153	There's no bullying here, sir, there's a diagnosis.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0599par0154	Yeah, well, he probably put our party under suspicion.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0600par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0601par0156	Yeah, we heard you. Mr. Baluken, you...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0600par0158	In the same way, HDP stated that the bill 4+4+4 did not present opposition during the talks. He must have picked on her directly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0602par0159	Mr. President, there's no bullying here, he's making a determination. Don't tease me about the same thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0603par0160	Mr. Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0604par0161	First, Mr. Cloud... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0605par0165	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Ms. Binnaz, have stated that the National Movement Party has not taken the necessary challenge to the proposal brought by the Ministry of National Education under the name 4+4+4. The National Movement Party is not a party that acts against any party to please or oppose it. The National Movement Party moves in the direction of the country's facts. Yes, or no, there are two choices, and there is no third. Our decision in the interests of our country sometimes coincides with opposition, sometimes with power. In the end, the National Movement Party is moving at its own point of truth. We have expressed on the commissions for days that the system of 4+4+4 is a system that doesn't conform to the reality of this country, which is unintended, undesigned, unaccounted, unaccounted for. We've stated that it's not safe for 60 months of children to go to school, and I've expressed it one by one. Bring ten principals from the school that you appointed, and if one of them says yes, we'll say yes. We said, "Yes." Universitys, academics say that a child's hand muscles are formed in sixty months. We say that you take children who can't hold pencils in sixty months to school, it's wrong. As a result, 85 per cent of 60-month-old students were unable to read and write, with the AKP taking over a year of those children.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0606par0166	Why did we give support in the field? Why do you argue 4+4+4?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0605par0167	No, we didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0606par0168	We've given you support in the field. You say, you deny it here.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0605par0169	Wrong. I'm expressing it here. What are you saying here?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0607par0170	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0605par0172	No, that's not true. You, the AKP, brought this 4+4+4 separately inside and out. You yourself, exploiting this under the name of Imam-Hatip... we wanted Koran class to be mandatory in all schools, not just in imam-nephews, but in all schools, you said no. Like the headscarf, we brought the law here, you guys in college...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0608par0173	You're contradicting yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0605par0174	You did not accept the 17th article, but came back from the Constitution. In that respect, I express that power is not sincere, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0609par0176	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0610par0179	A man can be surprised when he works 24 hours a day. Mr. Earth, I got it out of that computer. If you look at the photo here...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0611par0181	It's a Hall of Honor!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0610par0182	The opposition parties have a resistance to the Civil Code, just like this package. The CHP, along with its MPs, has halted this discussion of the Civil Charter in the BDP, and then the Civil Charter Commission has been established in parliament. On behalf of my party group, I served as part of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, and I spoke here in Parliament. And when I speak here, five of them are in one place, and the members of the group have signed a bill of law here, just like they asked, just like they asked. Then there was a great debate between Elitaş and Oktay Vural, and it was not discussed here. Mr. Lamb didn't sit there either. I mean, I wanted to remind you. The Democratic Party of Peoples, which advocates peace and democracy, against every law proposal that comes here without law, against its bill. I just wanted to remind you. Let me put it this way: It's not only that, but we have prepared for you such a beautiful charter as the Parliamentary Civil Code Compromise Commission against this Civil Code, which was brought to silence the voice of this opposition, so that you would not suffer so much. We brought in a vote once a week. Whoever's interested, come on. Look, you could sleep, you could travel, you could enjoy it. We're limiting the working time. A package like this came in, it'll be discussed in 30 hours. We were dividing by the vote, and it was working for you again. You were talking, too, in opposition, but limited. We were lifting the bag law in this Civil Code. We were lifting the bag law, but we were bringing in effective opposition, bringing in the legalization process of effective power. We've been reducing the decision enough and the roll call to 2 ▪ in that internal charter. You shot yourself, you shot yourself, you hit yourself. You're the one who passed the charter where four party groups agreed to 90%. You're paying for it now. That's your right. You deserve it, guys, you deserve it. By Allah, you are not sleeping, nor are we sleeping until the morning, until noon, until tomorrow, until the day after tomorrow. Whoever returns from here... break the spoon of the one who returns from the piliav. We say, OK, fellas?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0612par0185	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0613par0188	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0612par0189	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öğütün, Mr. Serter, Mr. Sun, Mr. Öner, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kuşükoğlu, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Onur. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0614par0198	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0612par0199	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0615par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0612par0202	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0615par0203	Mr. President, we'd like to give you our request on a matter.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0612par0204	Yes, please.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0615par0205	We started working today at 2:00 p.m., and it's 7:00 a.m.-20. There's been an hour break between 00. An hour and a half and seven hours of work has been shown here so far. Now, since the ruling party MPs aren't working, they may not feel that all they're doing is breaking into the electronics system.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0616par0206	We regret it.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0615par0207	But you can appreciate that the opposition parties are in search of continuing the work here, both following the law and speaking on the stand. There's a shift change in seven hours, even the hardest jobs. And when you think about some of the basics here, we have a request that we take at least an hour off, and then we'll continue working until they want to work again.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0617par0208	An hour from now, an hour from now, a two-hour break would be fine.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0615par0209	Within an hour of each other, our fellow Regents can prepare for other substances and have a rest period. Like I said, they may not need it, but the opposition needs it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0618par0211	And we're hungry because we've been working for seven hours. If we don't have a consultation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0619par0212	Mr. President, friends are betraying themselves, their capacity is sufficient for any kind of work, so let's continue.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit10spe0620par0213	Mr. Baluken, thank you for your advice, but I was going to take a half-hour break anyway. So, he won't take your advice exactly, but I'm sorry. I'm taking a half hour break.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0620par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. The commission and the government are in place. We stayed on item 42. I'm reading the other motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Public Security and Laws Act 684, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law of Humanity Services Act; Minister of Human Rights and Laws on Amendments of Human Rights and Amendments of Humanity; İstanbul MP İs Knakkale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Propos for the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Komal's Encounteral's Proposal for Al-Keşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşim on the Law on the Law; İstanbul Council of Humanitor for Al-Keşim, İstanbul Council of Humanment of Humanitorships Office of Humanment, İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Humanment of Publicment of Humanment of Humanment of Human Law; İstanbulment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of the Law on the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human Right; İstanbul's Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment and the Law on Humanment and the Law on Humanment of Human. "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" of this Law is understood by the "Police Chiefs Training Centre," by the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre, by the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education, by the definitions of Police Chiefs Education Centre, by the terms of "Isans" We offer and propose that the 42nd article in shape be replaced in the following way. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends "The following article is added to the Law No. 42 - 4652. "EK MADDE 1- The "Faculte" in this Law is understood by the "Police Chiefs Training Centre" in the terms of the Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre, "Development" in the terms of Police Chiefs Education Directorate, "Isans" in the terms of the law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0621par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0620par0014	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0622par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. With the bill we're talking about, we're solving the problems of the police department and our police, and we're bringing improvements, but there's no solution on any side of the bill about the problems of the agency or the problems of our police. Thus, it shows that the law, not only comes from the needs of the organization, but also from the needs of a number of wrecks. On December 30, 2014, Obudsman wrote a recommendation for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, after his colleagues complained about their professional problems. I'd like to share with you the results of this report. The topic of complaint has been raised under the title of overwork, free additional assignments, other occupational disturbances. In the provinces, dear friends, the average working hours of the week have been recorded. You know, it's 40 hours a week, eight hours a day. In some provinces, dear friends, over 50 hours of police work in a week. Let me give you a few examples: Adana 53 hours, Ağrı 55, Amasya 49, Antalya 50, Bolu 52, Çanakkale 51.2; Elazığ 50, Hakakari 59, Hatay 50, Mersin 55, İstanbul 54, İzmir 53 hours. It goes on and on, dear friends. The other provinces, believe me, are almost 45 hours in full. County average is 47.6 hours. So he's working on 26 boroughs of 81 over 50 hours, dear friends. In countries such as Germany, France, Denmark, Spain, Sweden, Italy, police work period is 40 hours a week. When it's over 40 hours, it's either on leave or on payday, overtime, overtime. You're looking at additional assignments: activities such as the reception of state elders, foreign delegations, religious and national holidays, concerts, etcetera, and 30 additional assignments to the police. Only martyr funerals, measures for traveling vendors, destruction, tenders, court decisions and money transfers are counted on overtime. 26 additional tasks are often not considered on duty. These additional tasks are not paid any additional fee for 29 additional tasks, except for the examination measures, my dear friends. We're looking at overtime: Special operations and intelligence officer 13.607 police pay $337, political branch, riot force, protection of sensitive areas, Panzer drive and operators $344 to 62,099 to employees in other units, $290 to the market and neighborhood watchmen. The decision that an officer can be granted permission for every eight hours of overtime in Article 178 of State Officers' Law No. 657 is applied to other public officials, while valuable friends are applied to the police. As you can see, our police force is working under extreme stress, pressure. Of course, there are mistakes that this one has brought. These mistakes reflect on the citizens. Well, that's actually what we need to discuss in this law today. But as this bill does not provide a solution to any of these problems, it actually puts the police under more political pressure. It's a mountain of problems anyway. For example, 3600 additional indicators cannot be solved. Although the ruling party has repeatedly promised, it does not keep its promise, nor does it under any other name improve their wages. Which, of course, upsets the mental health of our police department. So between 2009 and 2013, those who were treated for mental health are dear friends, 2,323. The number of police suicides is too high to compare to any other country, again, 157 from 2009-2013. Friends come to you almost every day. We're getting reports of a cop committing suicide on our phones. I just wanted to remind you once again that the Home Office bureaucrats are here when the Minister is here. I wish you all good morning.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0623par0029	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0624par0032	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0623par0033	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ötün, Mr. Serker, Mr. Sun, Mr. Öner, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Earth, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kuşeli, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Kuşüç. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There is an open motion for a vote on Article 42. Now, I'm going to get the names of the lawmakers who are in attendance. Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP? Here. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP? Here. Melda Onur, İstanbul MP? Here. Haydar Akar, MP from Marseilles? Here. Ihsan Özkes, İstanbul MP? Here. Engin Özkoch, Cakaryan MP? Here. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP? Here. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP? Here. Engin Altay, Sinop MP? Here. Orhan Delegate, Slap Congressman? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP? Here. Binnaz Yur, İstanbul MP? Here. Sena Kaleli, Bursa MP? Here. Fatma Nur Serter, Istanbul MP? Here. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP? Here. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP? Here. Refik Eryılmaz, Hatay MP? Here. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP? Here. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, Alderman? Here. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the clear vote of Article 42: ▪ Number of votes used : 195 [[x]] Mine Leuk White Wish Rise Thus the 42nd article was accepted. There are two motions for a new substance violation, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendment in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; Law Order for Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for changes in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Human Rights Act; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Order for Change; İstanbul Vice President, 2559 Vice Minister of Laws and Laws of Laws on Laws Affairs, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4. "EK MADDE 1" - "The Council of Police Chiefs Training Centre," "The Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre," "The Council of Police Chiefs Education Centre Directorate" and "Information of Police Chiefs Education Centre" are understood by the terms of "Isans." After Article 42 in the shape of Article 42, we offer and propose that the following item be neglected and other substances be identified accordingly. "The following clause is added after Article 30 of Law 43 - 4652. Article 30/A - Authority The general manager may hand over the power of Article 25 of this law to the President in a clear and written manner. Mughl...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0625par0082	We're rolling, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0623par0083	It's been moved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Act; İstanbul MP's Proposal on Al-Securation Act on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Propos; 25599nition of Peace and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law of Humanity of Humanment of Humanity of Humanment of Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Law; İstanbul Law on Humanity and the Laws Law shall be made by the Law. After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Article 41-3201 is added to the following article. Article 32 - In the back and chest areas of police riot squads, the shirt is five centimeters long and twenty-five centimeters long; on the sides and on the sides of the arms and on the front and on the back of the legs, five centimeters thick and eight centimeters [8 cm] in height, and on the helmets, the registration numbers are written in the opposite color of the color on the clothing and helmet floor. Gaziantep...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0626par0091	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0623par0092	It's been moved. Now we've reached Article 43. There are three motions on Article 43, two proposals of the same nature and a violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "The following temporary clause is added to Law 4652. "UNCIAL MADDE 6- The President, Dean, Institute Director and Institute Secretary, Police Professional High School Director, Police Professional Education Centre Director and their assistants and assistants will end their duties in each staff and administrative staff and will be cut off from their staff. At the same time, the temporary assignments of those in the academy cease. The President will be appointed within twenty days of the date when this clause is in effect. Within 20 days of the appointment of the president, the vice president, the director of the Police Chiefs Training Centre, and the assistant director of the Police Chiefs Training Centre, the director of the Institute and the Institute Secretary, the director of the Police University and the director of the Police Professional Education Centre will be appointed to the staff or titles. The professor, lecturer, professor, research officer, expert and administrative staff president offers and approves the Minister's staff will be appointed as members of the Police Academy as of two months at the latest, in line with their position as police academy president, as soon as this clause is in effect. Those of the administrative staff who have not been reassigned to the presidency will be appointed to other departments of the General Directorate in the same time as those of their position. Those of the non-assigned staff who are on academic staff will be notified of their appointment to other institutes of higher education in the same time as the chairman of the Board of Higher Education. For those who have been made such notifications, the appointment of the board of higher education institutions to be appointed to academic titles in accordance with their circumstances will be made by the presidential office, which has been announced within a month of the deadline, and the appointment will be completed within the month following this proposal. As part of this joke, the staff of academic staff assigned to higher education institutions has been added to the respective departments of higher education institutions, which have been assigned to the higher education bodies, dated 2/9/1983, and have been assigned to the higher education bodies of Number 78, under the rule of law. The financial and social rights of those present in this joke continue to be paid by the units in which these payments are paid until the appointment process is completed." 43 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer Mehmet Hilal Kaplan The two motions I'm about to read now contain a violation of the Constitution. I'll process them both together, but I'll promise the suitors separately if they want to. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The Law on Police Duty and Equality, the Police Agency, the Law on Duty and Powers, the Law on Population Services and Some Laws and Laws to Make Changes in Decisions" 43. In accordance with Article 4652, we propose and propose that Interim Article 6 be removed from the draft text due to the violation of the Constitution. Mehmet Erdoğan Ali Öz Emin Çınar Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Police Act 684 is currently in session, and the Act of Justice and Law shall be changed by certain Laws and Laws, Article 1 of the Law Bill; Article 1 of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitutional Laws and the universal law norms and fundamental human rights; and we propose -- the only party -- one man -- beyond the dictatorship and the police state -- that the actual "war state" shall be removed from the bill due to violation of the Constitution of Article 43 of the Law. Iron Steel Gülser Yıldırım İdris Baluken Müs Mardin Mardinl Abdullah Levent Çüzel Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Adil Zozani Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0627par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0623par0124	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0628par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We're renegotiating a bill that everyone's against in the morning. In fact, it's not possible to understand why the AK PARTY is still so resistant, but you're also trying to create a continuous public perception. You claim to be in line with the norms of the European Union, to consult with members of the Council of Europe, and to bring a law in line with Western democracies. We've met with the European Union delegations over the past few days, we've had talks with representatives from countries that are members of the Council of Europe; they say that your information is all lies and false information, and they make it clear that nothing has been negotiated and shared with them. As a matter of fact, if Turkey wants to buy some things from the European Union, they also say it makes sense to do so through what they call "democratisation." Therefore, we need to express that the issues you have expressed here are completely wrong about the European Union, about its compliance with the EU. Again, by linking it to the solution process, the Prime Minister says the law is important for the solution process and is guaranteed. That's all wrong and false information. Because the solution process has two dimensions that walk parallel. The first of these dimensions was about non-conflict and disarmament; the second was about expanding democracy and freedom. Now, if you don't set up all perception on disarming democracy and freedoms, there's no clear possibility of progress in the solution process. You know that best. So here, in both ways, you have to take synchronized, simultaneous steps to feed each other. You can't get a chance for the democratic future in terms of a bill that restricts freedoms, which brings the State of Emergency in 81 districts, gives the governor the jurisdiction of the judiciary, gives the police the order to shoot them, implements antidemocratic regulations in the middle of the street until police are allowed to search naked. Therefore, we advise you to turn away from this error when the road is near. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0629par0134	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0630par0135	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0629par0136	I'll process it with the other motion, sir. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0631par0139	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good morning to you all. I want to give you an example of the point where this law will bring Turkey: Last day in Russia, opposition politician Boris Nemtsov was assassinated. This was not the first politician to have been recently killed in Russia, but for nearly two years, the opposition politicians and journalists who have been known in Russia have been destroyed by unsolved assassinations. We agree from time to time that the President has often come together and that there will be a Turkey that you are trying to bring together with the regime of Putin. Do you think this law will never shoot you? I assure you, you'll see, this law will shoot you the most, I dare you. I remember in the prisons they used to say that the contractor who built the prison didn't die without going through this prison. Note, indeed, that here we have friends who had a past in Yusufiye -- that prison contractor will surely go through it once. This law will surely strike you once, perhaps first, you will be the most rebellious, and I sincerely express it. I wish you wouldn't live, but accept that such a truth exists. Do you know what this law brings? When we talk about democratization and all that, this is the law of exile, which we now know existed a long time ago in Turkey, which we now call history. You know, Mehmet Ali Pasha of Egypt, who was exiled to Egypt, is waiting for the end of his people with this law. You're making a change in Law 2559, and by Article 2 you're saying there: "He will protect you." I don't know what kind of substance this protection clause is, how can he be taken into protective custody? It's a vague word, what does it do to be suspended? Where it is, you change its residence, you take the man, you drive him from Istanbul to Van, you will reside here. Why? You cause trouble where you are found, you are involved in issues that will disrupt the unity of the state of Turkey, the integrity of Turkey. That's why I drove you to Hakkari. They might call you Hakkari. I mean, tomorrow morning, there's a couple of lawmakers to eat in exile, just so you know. You're not always a congressman, you're not always in power. This law is bound to hit you, too. We've been talking about this law for about 20 days. For 20 days, this law has been spoken, and I like to compare it to this: the Zulu tribes are in America. They're setting a big fire in the middle, and all the other chieftains are sitting around the fire. Everyone's talking, but no one's listening, everybody's talking. In the end, everyone gets out of that fire before it's understood. You know what that fire is? It is you who are the heedless. You don't understand what you're talking about, and no one understands anything, ever, and to the floor. You're not aware of the danger. And you're claiming that we're making these laws to destroy terror and terrorist. They say to him: "Don't you feel ashamed? You and the terrorist head are together in the mornings and evenings. You're having breakfast together in the morning, pulling the covers together, how's that gonna work? The liar is the liar. Your president, your Prime Minister, your MIT President, your Home Secretary, you're under the terrorist's covers! Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0632par0146	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0633par0147	Thank you, Mr Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0634par0148	Mr. President, he needs to use a clean language when he speaks to the preacher.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0635par0149	Come out from under the covers. Look, don't lie under the terrorist's covers.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0636par0150	Don't talk about it, you dirty bastard!
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0637par0151	If you'll be quiet, I'll be able to hear the request. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0638par0153	When the speaker speaks on the stand, Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, you must warn him to speak in a clean language. So, really, at this point, I'm not taking what you're saying, and we're returning it in the same way.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0639par0154	What are you being a bully for? And you talk about everything.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0640par0156	Let him come.
tbmm-2015-03-04sit11spe0641par0158	[[A group of AK PARTIES and MHP MPs walking on each other, making noise.]] Congressmans, please remain calm. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... I'm gonna take an hour off. We can't make it work in these conditions. You can't see that.
