tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to speak on freedom of press and expression. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is ranked 69th among the 187 countries in the Human Development Order announced by the United Nations. In the OECD's Better Life Index, Turkey is ranked as the 36th in the general ranking. Turkey is a free country in the Freedom Index. Unfortunately, we're ranked 64th among 132 countries in the Social Development Index. Turkey is ranked 93rd among 178 countries in the Fragile State Index, which measures the overall situation of corruption and crime, with the status of "high-risk countries." In terms of economic freedoms, we are 64th among 178 countries. This is Turkey; a 16-year-old boy arrested as a journalist who was taken into custody by the name of "tweet" is a reality of Turkey, which is declared a terrorist. Freedom of press and expression has returned to Turkey's freedom of praise and love for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. All of the journalists the president took on his plane are journalists whose hands were tied with calluses from applauding him. The one who designed the media with the "Hello Conqueror" lines is your journalism. "Akbabas, we have taken off your leash," he told reporters who didn't listen to Twitter. You can't tell the media bosses of Turkey that I can't control the writer. There's a president who thinks he's the boss of media bosses. We also have a prime minister who describes Turkey's journalist's ability to ask disturbing questions and to go home without anything happening to him as press freedom. Even this data sums up Turkey's position on democracy and freedom of press and freedom of expression. Dear MPs, journalists during the AKP period were forced to choose between honor or comfort, virtue or bread, anvil or hammer. The press workers during the AKP period are two classes: the people next to the power have made up the prisoners, and the ones next to the facts have made up the class of the hungry freedoms. Turkey has a power on Twitter that prohibits writing, images on YouTube, and censors its own voice and skills on the Internet. We're also dealing with a sense of power that gives the name "darbe" and "buying" in the name of bribery and corruption. Turkey has a government that is the judge of its own trial; its courts are independent, its provisions are unbiased. There's a government in the Lighthouse case that questions people who are judging the judges, who are questioning people in the bribery and corruption case. We have a power that clears itself of its own corruption again. In short, in Turkey, power is out of line, democracy is corrupt, justice is polluted. Turkey faces democracy and freedom of expression with a president whose wisdom is no more than his own. Freedoms in Turkey remain between the two lips of one party, the President and his men. Joyful fibre, fibrous, severed vascular society. Let's not forget that the easier it is to intervene in a legal system, the more bans are placed, the more confidentiality decisions are made, the more efficient the autocratic executives are there, the more pressure the press and freedom of expression is under. Again, the more free and transparent and accountability, the more independent the judgment, the more efficient the clean governance is. Principles such as freedom of the press, transparency, freedom of information and freedom of information, fair trial, effective supervision are largely restrictive in the cases of corruption. When the problem comes to the stage of existence or extinction in terms of power, fundamental religious and human values are losing effect, and in a fierce and sharp struggle for power, religion, trial, blood, or soul-sistership are being treated as tools. Freedom of press and expression is the mother of all freedoms. Where the press isn't free, the pressure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and the people who did it themselves are not free. There's no good in oppression and tyranny. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Konya MP Attila Kart (Adz) who wants to talk about the sizes of bribery claims in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment in our country to evaluate the dimensions of bribery. I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, I will not speak of December 17th and 25th. That process, a separate bet, is being discussed on a separate floor, will continue to be discussed. Since 8 December, we have voiced findings on the distribution of bribes at 8 public institutions, including Istanbul, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. Here's the thing: 4 foreigners, including Daimler, are being tried in the United States for a claim that the international firm has distributed bribes in the United States. The findings, the evidence, are so serious that Daimler's firm, the company that was charged with bribery, agreed to pay 180 million dollars in fines, closing the criminal investigation file. The American judicial system is capable of such a compromise. What are the relevant authorities doing in America? In that case, the same firms are sending this file to 22 countries, including Turkey, as part of international contracts, because there are evidence that Daimler has been handing out bribes in 22 countries, so they're sending it to 22 countries, including Turkey, to conduct administrative, judicial procedures in accordance with their own legislation. Look, my dear friends, according to this file, which reached Turkey in 2010-2011, which was registered to the Ministry of Justice, it is said that bribes have been paid institutionally in Turkey by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, Interior Ministry, Kara Kuvves Command, Malatya and Dilovasi Mayors and IETT. Also, the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality stated that in 1998, 250 bus purchases, 3,315 German marks per bus bribes were given to the mayor, my dear friends. In other cases, while the institution is being charged with charges against Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, there is a direct charge against the mayor, the price per bus is mentioned, the total price is mentioned. Well, my dear friends, since December 8th -- and I've just expressed these issues -- with press conferences, with questions motions, with a criminal complaint against the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, there is no statement from the government, no statement from the Ministry of Interior, no statement from the Ministry of Justice, no statement from the Prime Minister. Who's talking? It's just the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, mentioned. What's he doing? He's suing us about ourselves. You can sue, of course you can sue, and we'll use our right to defend against that case. But look, those documents are not the documents I created, my dear friends, I'm talking about official records reaching the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Justice, I'm talking about official documents. I'm talking about documents found in the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Turkey, which are of the United States and German authorities. If you're confident as mayor, if you're confident, if you don't have any doubts about yourself, you'll appeal to relevant authorities, you'll ask for an investigation, but you don't do that, you turn it into demagogy, you turn it into a hammock, and by the way, the government keeps not opening its mouth. The bribe here, I say again, dates of crime go from 1998 to 2006 to 2007, so there is no statute of limitations. My dear friends, societies, people, you can deceive for a while, you can deceive everyone once, but you can't always cheat everyone. This period has begun for political power, and that's what we're talking about. I present this document, this evidence to your conscience, to your appreciation. I hope you have an explanation for this document, my dear friends. I salute the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kars MP Ahmet Arslan, who wants to talk about investments in Kars. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0006par0041	Respected President, respected MPs, and, of course, valuable viewers watching us at the beginning of the screens, there has been an off-the-top talk on this bench the other day about the last four years that there have been no investments in Kars. So, in a sense, let me sort of sort of sort of line them up so that the Karsians can reminisce. Years later, the District Directorate of the Roads was established in Kars, which had not been established in Turkey for a long time. What happened when the district manager was formed? Kars-Susuz-Ardahan, Kars-Selim-Karakurt, Kars central city entrance, Yellowkamish city entrance, hot asphalt of all these roads. The paper-cut bridge road, the Kars-Latter road, the Selim-Gole road, the Arpachay road, the Akyaka junction constructions were made and started. The Baku-Tiflis-Kars Railroad Project is going on fast, this year will be over. The logistical center has been located, and the application project is being prepared. The Kars-Igs-Discussor railways are being studied. The airport has opened in Kars. It's a great terminal, and the users are expressing their satisfaction. An investment programme was put into the Kars Airport programme this year to build a runway in character (emergency) so that the airport would not close. And another good news: we're going to tender the road divided in Kars-Digor-Tuzlu. We said, two days ago, on January 27th, there were 27 offers -- 60 million -- at the lowest price. The institution, hopefully, will begin its production in the spring by reviewing it. The DSI is continuing its tenders for the Kars Dam and the Yellowkamis Dam. They add up to 165 million liras. Selim Dam continues to collect on Kars Dam's irrigation waters. A tender was made for the Koçköy Dam, and the tender process is under way. The application projects for the Digor and Paper Dams are being prepared, so hopefully it will be tendered soon. Again, in order to protect the floods of the villages in the Aras Valley, the tender was made at 19, and the tender for 18 villages was $35 million. Many drinking water ponds were built. Again, there has been no service taken to the province. It has been said that in the past 11 years, 150 million investments have gone to Kars. 70 million of these have been in the last four years. There are no sewers in Kars. Friends, it's true, there's never been any in the past, between 2007 and 2009, we've built 27 more villages in the last two years, and there are no sewers in Kars. In the village square, if you go, the material will be seen.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0007par0050	He's got eyes, he's got ears, he's got ears.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0006par0051	There's no water, there's no work." I've been told. We've brought a drilling machine from Elazığ to Halefoglu, and the drilling machine is working. There is no water in the village of Fiveways, where is this state, where are these MPs? Where are the MPs, I'll tell you: last year we did the drilling tender, we did the drilling, and this year we did the bidding, including the storage repair and the line shoot. The contractor's working right now, and there's an excavator there. But nothing is done without seeing them. It's tried. However, it was said that one state hospital was built in Kars, but two were closed. True, friends, we had two state hospitals, one of which was 5,700 square meters, one of which was 32,000 square meters. These only had 19 qualified beds. Instead, we opened a new hospital called the Harakani State Hospital, where there are 38,750 square metres of space, and 324 qualified beds, such as WCH, bathrooms, closets, TVs. We're restoring the current state hospital to the same quality, and it'll come to the same quality. In Digor, in Akyaka, in Arpachay, in Selim, the 10-bed district hospitals are almost finished. A new 100-bed additional hospital was offered in the paper, which is $15,300,000. The university hospital has no grants, no equipment. For three and a half years -- our hospital's been opened -- we've received over 45 million equipment grants and equipment. 23,000 surgeries have been performed in the last three years. Friends, valuable viewers, there are investments that I'm going to count just as much as this one, but time is over. I say good luck to our Kars, to our country, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0008par0056	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0009par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0008par0058	Mr. Aydın, you have a request.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0009par0059	Mr. President, as important as the 29 January events of the West Thracian Turks and the National Resistance Day, he is also of West Thrace origin, Mr. Hakan Sergeant.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0008par0060	Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0010par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, today is January 29th. About twenty-seven years ago, Greece closed the Turkish Youth Union and the Turkish Union, which had been operating since 1928 and 1929, with a heavy attack on the ethnic identity of the Turkish minority for the Muslim Turkish minority in Western Thrace, with a court order to place its name on the Turkish Union. The Islamic minority of West Thrace, who could not handle this heavy attack, stood up and showed its reaction to the decision. The honorable stance of the minority against decisions to ignore its national identity is now called the National Resistance Day by the minority. I salute the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority today, on this occasion, once again, in the face of any threat to their national and spiritual values, which will be drawn to them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit01spe0011par0068	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0011par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under the host of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the European Parliament and the Western Balkan countries' participation of lawmakers were in Ankara on 5 February 6 February 2015, and Turkey's decision entitled Energy Security, Energy Efficiency and Connections between Parliamentary Seminars was met with the Council of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, dated 06/01/2015 and 88th. The implementation of the Inter-National Semine, dated 28/3/1990, is presented to the General Assembly's information as required by Article 7/7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the victims of Turkey's criminal execution officers due to their rights and to investigate the problems they faced during their duties, the Constitution requires the establishment of the Parliamentary Commission for Research on Articles 104 and 105. [[Lug]] [[Elizipt]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kastamon]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kütahya]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Yozgat]] [[Mughle]] Our citizens, who serve as punishment and protection officers in our country, serve under the Law of State Officers 14/7/1965 and 657, in order to ensure the protection of prisoners late at night when the time comes, when the time is right. Employees serving in criminal execution institutions have complained about the lack of financial income, stating that they are psychologically affected by the fact that they spend most of their time in prisons, and on the other hand, they are also affected by morale because they think that the actions done by some irresponsible colleagues have cost all criminal execution institution personnel. In 2009 and 2010, about 10 execution workers committed suicide revealed the situation of the oasis. When the state of the public staff is examined by law, there are also problems. In a similar manner to law enforcement forces in our country, the officers of the penal execution institution have been counted not in the class of police and security services, but in the administrative services department. At the same time, if you look at the state of the Union of Public Servants No. 4688 and the state of the penal execution agency officers under the Common Contract Act, you will see that they have no right to form a union. The Social Insurance Act 5510 and the Act on General Health Insurance are not among the trade groups where the actual service hike will be carried out. At the same time, criminal execution workers want to address problems in providing transportation, including housing, school, and so on. One of the key points to the removal of the victims of the criminal execution agency officers will be to take into account the risks of the profession given to them, raising them to the pay level of people who are equal to them, as well as to raise additional indicators that will reflect on their pensions. Because of a research commission that will be established within our parliament, the work on the social rights of our citizens serving in criminal execution institutions will be resolved. On the other hand, the development of the work of prison execution officers in the field of better carrying out their duties will have positive effects on themselves and on their family lives. The commission's work is also thought to help bring to the lowest level the incidents in prisons in our country that have been raised at various intervals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Iğdır and various parts of our country, we have the need to establish the status of our citizens who have been kidnapped by the terrorist organization PKK, the Council's research commission for the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to investigate how these events have occurred and how our Constitution has prevented such abductions. [[Lug]] [[Kastamon]] 3) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] 17) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Yozgat]] 23) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] The separatist terrorist group is accelerating the PKK's actions and making various attacks to create panic among our people across the country. In 2012, PKK attacks and especially kidnappings were reported to have increased. In the region, which has been unstable by the help of foreign forces and the Arab spring, the terrorist organization has accelerated its attacks and committed extremely bloody acts. The sadness of recent news of martyrs has been added to our nation, as well as the suspicion of our kidnapped citizens. Recently, 10 people have been kidnapped by PKK terror groups at Korhan Yaylası on Mt. Ağdır, 60 per cent within Iğdır. Unfortunately, kidnappings continue in this area. Six teachers were kidnapped and released an hour later in the village of Bulakbaş, Karakoyunlu, Iğdır Province, Turkey. The focus of PKK attacks across the country around Mt. Ağdır and İğdır appears to be remarkable developments. Not long ago, on the road to Karaziman-Karakurt, two in a row by terrorists in the same position showed that there were security weaknesses in the region, and in the past months, Kayseri's terrorist attack in Pinarbaş district revealed intelligence weakness. The attacks, as seen by the explosion in Gaziantep, have targeted civilians directly. The terrorist incident at Mount Ağrı's Korhan plateau has a variety of goals, from blocking investments going into the region to creating an atmosphere of insecurity in the region and giving the message that the region is unstable. Of course, they don't want divisive focus on introducing the natural beauty of Mount Pain and turning the region into tourism and becoming an attraction. The activities of the PKK, which considers a trained Turkish youth a threat to it, result in treacherous attempts against our teachers, who are carrying out their duties under many hardships and impossible circumstances. In previous times, the kidnapping of many of our public officials by the PKK and the failure to achieve a positive result in the process still show that there is not enough pressure on the terrorist organization. If necessary applications are not conducted, this path will be used more often by the PKK and will continue to threaten our nation. It is imperative that the establishment of deterrents be examined in areas where the terrorist organization PKK and its separatist groups have committed kidnappings and that necessary measures be taken, that such unfortunate incidents should not be repeated. An inventory of how many of our citizens so far have been kidnapped by the PKK through a parliamentary research commission under the TBMM will ensure that the work needed to be carried out for information on the fate of our citizens will be taken a significant step. In addition, caring for the victims of families kidnapped by the terrorist organization as deputies elected by the nation would be beneficial for families not to be left alone. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A second earthquake occurred on November 9, 2011, following an earthquake in our province on October 23, 2011. After the first earthquake, the structures opened to use without sufficient control were destroyed along with the second earthquake. One example of this destruction was the destruction of the Bayram Hotel. I'd like to ask that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter, in order to ensure that the legal process of those who lost their lives is followed, that administrative and judicial authorities be determined and that a healthier investigation be conducted. The earthquake, which occurred on October 23, 2011, caused major damage to our province of Van, both in the size of people who lost their lives and in the sense of financial damage. At the point of the destruction, the AKP did not do what was necessary, and in the second major earthquake that occurred on November 9, 2011, the Japanese doctor Atsushi Miyazaki, journalists Cem Emir, Selahattin Yilmaz and Önal Erol were injured, including 25 of our citizens who lost their lives and 15 of our citizens were injured. First of all, the neglect of the Bayram Hotel to be destroyed could have led to the loss of more citizens. Therefore, it is important that the neglects and setbacks in the destruction of the Hotel Bayram are subject to effective supervision, preventing deaths from any negligence that may have occurred in the coming days. After this tragic incident, 11 of our citizens have found it in criminal charges concerning the destruction of the Bayram Hotel. These criminal complaints belong to the relatives of those who have lost their lives; the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Chief of Emergency Management and Emergency Management at the time of the incident, Vice President of the Disaster and Emergency Management Administration, Deputy Director of the Afet and Emergency Management Administration, Chief of the Bureau of Disasters and Emergency Management, Van Governor, Governor of Van County Afet and Emergency Status Director, Bayram Hotel/owner of the Bayram Hotel. The legal assessment of the destruction of the Bayram Hotel, particularly public buildings and private buildings open to public use, can be summarized as a post-fact control of disaster areas, damage detection studies and the taking of necessary measures to do so, whether the legislation is a duty of public officials in which they clearly assign themselves to it or not. In action from this legal summary, Van, who experienced the first major earthquake in our province, it is an irresponsibility and crime that a building that is open to public use, which is more than 15 days after the first earthquake, is at a high risk of being hit by another earthquake, while a building that is open to public use is being used without adequate control and that this building collapses after the second earthquake. In this case, it is imperative that all aspects of irresponsibility and crime be brought to light, comfort, and prevent such irresponsibility and unlawfulness. Therefore, it is imperative that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey intervene in such processes. In the earthquake in Van on October 9, 2011, the loss of the lives of public journalists and a Japanese doctor makes this necessity stronger. On October 9, 2012, we request a parliamentary inquiry to determine those who neglected the Bayram Hotel, to apply for the information of the families of the journalists who lost their lives, and to strengthen the investigation with a commission under the TBMM. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the fourth place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of Kars MP İstiye İstane; Ankara MP Emine Güçer Tarhan; Samuel MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposals and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Talks on the first chapter were completed yesterday in the merger of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of Mine Law No. 3213 is removed from the framework of Article 1 of the Charter for Change. The statement is removed from the text of the item. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of the item. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Haydar Akar Sakine Öz Doğan Dawn Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0012par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0011par0173	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0013par0176	Mr. President, Congressmans, we're negotiating a Mining Law. Why does a law come to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? It comes for the solution of problems, so it comes for the solution of problems that have happened and the possible problems that have happened, and measures that have to be taken on them. But no matter what law came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey during the AKP administrations, we were unable to come up with a solution, and in the time of these governments, we collapsed in our mining policy; the state withdrew its hands from the production of mines and became a follower of its allies. All mines are open, open to business if you're a supporter of the Minister of Energy, if you're a supporter of the Prime Minister, if you're a supporter of the Prime Minister of the past. Only in the mines? That's how we define the entire energy sector, the entire Department of Energy. Why are we making that distinction? Because that's all we've had in four years. I told you the other day, they fail at thermal power plants, they fail at coal companies, they fail at power distribution companies, they fail at anything you can think of about energy. The way they brought it in, the way they protected their followers with rentals and redevances, the mining sector was inconsequential. So, what did they mean by redevans in the mining sector, service purchase, why did they try to do it, and what did they get, and why did they do it? They did it to increase quality, increase production, lower costs, increase employment. And in the mines, did they happen? Business accidents in the mines increased during this AKP period. We were ranked in business accidents, first in Europe, when we were number 1 in the world, when we were not able to get into a certain order of mining in the world. In particular in the mines, in Karadon, in Kozlu, in Afshin-Elbistan, in Soma, in Ermenek, in the mines, there have been major mining accidents, and our miners have lost their lives and continue to lose their lives. Only 325 of our citizens died in the mines in 2014, our miner. When we go back, we've become a country that has the most citizens dying in mining accidents in the world, thanks to AKP policies. So, is the production up? When you look at the production, the production of stone coal, which was 5 million tons in the 2000s, has dropped to 1.8 million tonnes; for nine years it has become unprofitable in the country, and in Bartin, Zonguldak was unable to produce. It's not just in the coal of stone, it's also in the lignite. What have we done with thousands of lives, hundreds of lives in mines, in redevans-style mines, with a sense of governance, that they don't take measures against business accidents in order to make more money in the mines given the method of receiving services, in order to reduce costs? We lost it in mining accidents. And what's interesting is that because there's a method of mining that doesn't understand, and there's a way of getting service, especially in the gallery, construction companies have been brought into the mines and mining, mining, mining culture has disappeared. That was not enough, the organization in the mines was eliminated, they sentenced our workers who worked in the mines to minimum wage, and they were under law to be paid two minimum wage fees, and they were fired because there was no organization for our workers, and because there was no job security, they continued to be fired. Oh, and there's another thing about business security: If you don't join the AKP, if you don't wear a helmet to AKP rallies, your business will be terminated again. These are the disadvantages we count in the mines in a flash created by the AKP government. Well, is it possible to say anything positive in AKP power during its time? I don't think that's possible. I'm looking, I can't find it, I'm not saying anything positive. Now, there's a bill coming in again; there's no findings in the commission reports in 2010; there's no findings in the reports made by the presidential audit board; there's nothing to resolve the negativity that the Soma Commission has detected, and interestingly enough, NGOs, which are on the side of this, no proposals made by the Mining Engineers Room, no proposals involved. Despite their participation in all commission studies, we cannot see this within this bill, and this bill does not solve the problems of miners, mines in Turkey, creating new allies, providing jobs for supporters. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0014par0183	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Sequential Law and the 2nd Amendment to some Laws. Article 1. We offer and propose that the definition of "designed corporate persons" in his joke be changed in the following way. "Supported corporate persons: engineers or persons with licenses to search for or operate mines, who have been authorized by the General Manager's Office, who are authorized to prepare the report, project and any technical document under this Law, who own more than half of their own or company's shares, or who run engineers whose quality and quantity are dictated by regulations. " Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the definition of "Secretary Persons" in different jokes of the 2nd Amendment to the 683 Order of Mine Law, and we would like to propose that the term "full" described in the definition "subjected Trade Cost" will be replaced as "60%" and "30%" will be changed to "40%." Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş Ali İhsan İkturk "Secretive persons: persons authorized by the General Manager's Office, registered in the relevant vocational room, authorized to prepare a report, project and any technical document under this Law, or persons whose company shares are owned by more than half of them as engineers, or those who run a mining search license or a business. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose "Prospection" and "Accession Report" as follows in Article 3213 of the law bill, under which there is a change in Article 3 of the mine law, "Possible Reserve," "Special Reserve," "Security Search Report," "General Search Action Report," "Detail Search Action Report," and "Investigation Report" as follows. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken "Possible Reserve: a part of a mineral source found in general or in some cases as a result of detail searches is an undeterminated operating part of geological, mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental and social factors, such as in visible reserves. The visible Reserve: a three-dimensional mineral source, which can be found as a result of detailed searches, can be operated under geological, mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental and social factors and conditions of the day. Preliminary Search Action Report: A low-responsibility tonage and tenor/cality assessment of the field described in the mine search project, including geological production, geophysical measurements and general geophysical studies, and a low-responsibility tonage and tenor/cality estimate. General Search Action Report: The source report on the method and applications specified in the mining project, including the work of tonage, density, shape, physical features, tenor/cality and the appropriation of mineral content at an acceptable level of credibility. Details Search Action Report: A measured source report involving methods and applications specified in the mining project and studies of tonage, density, shape, physical properties, tenor/cality and mineral content to determine a high level of credibility. Search Action Report: A report from the creation of regional geology maps conducted in the search area, including a small scale of geology and mineral geology maps and geological prospections, cut, gallery, drilling studies and experiments on samples obtained in these studies and modelling of samples, including preliminary search, general search and detail search phases and annual management. Prospection is the work of looking for subterranean and terrestrial natural resources through methods such as remote perception, geographical information systems, on the basis of geological, mineralogenic, geochemical research as part of a search project. The Mine Source: the material, quality, quantity, tenor/ quality, permanence, and other geological features of the earth's crust, is to enrich the mine, which has been established, predicted or interpreted, but not proven economically. Authorised corporate individuals: those who are authorized by the General Director's Office, who have been assigned to the vocational rooms of the interested engineers he employs, who are authorized to prepare any technical documents, such as operational reports, projects, and all partners are joint engineers." Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0015par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0014par0220	Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0016par0221	Erol Dora will speak, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0014par0222	Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0017par0224	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the 2nd Amendment to the Mining Act 683, and on the 2nd Amendment to some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. After the Soma and Ermenek labour massacres, local and superficial approaches are also in this bill, which is a continuation of some legal arrangements towards the mining field, aimed at softening the government's responses to public opinion. Dear lawmakers, such as the Government, Soma and Ermenek, have developed reckless attitudes in the world's non-exemplary catastrophes in our century and have been able to interpret the killings of workers in the form of this work. To sum it up, rather than develop a responsible attitude towards disaster, the state has decided to cover up business killings that have taken place within the framework of a public perception operation, in the framework of crisis management mechanisms. The rejection of the parliamentary group of the motions we have submitted to the opposition parties related to the ministers has also been passed by history as a political irresponsibility, distance from political ethics. Precious lawmakers have focused on work killings, construction, mining, agriculture and transport, in the working sectors of seasonal work, under the circumstances of ununioned, unorganised and unsecured work. In addition, the subject is almost never reflected, even though there are more than six times as many deaths in business accidents every year from occupational illness. Occupational illness is a hidden epidemic of the age. According to the estimates of the International Labour Organization ILO, 160 million workers worldwide are at risk of professional illness. We can give the same example from our country. We're a country with about 30 million active employees. So the estimated number of occupational diseases expected in Turkey is between 120,000 and 360,000 per year. Dear MPs, the AK PARTI government, which became a professional in public perception operations, did not account for Kemal Diamond, Adnan Demir, Aydoğan Polat and Mehmet İpek, who were still buried four years after the collapse in Afşin-Elbia (February 10, 2011). Again, on February 24, 2012, 10 of our workers were flooded by the explosion of the tunnel cover of the Kozan Gökdere Bridge Dam and the Hydroelectric Plant. However, after three years, the government, the EnergySA and the company in its partnership, Latif Millerci, Mehmet Yilmaz, Veli Damakız, Selahattin Aral and Necmettin Karayiğit were unable to find the funerals of five of our workers, and the search was terminated. The government can't take care of its employee, and it can't account for the worker who was killed in the business. Dear lawmakers, in our country where poverty deepens every day, it is known that working life has begun at an early age and has lasted almost a lifetime. In this context, it should be based on positive discrimination in pension rights, according to the employment of workers. The deaths of all employees, not only registered and unregistered workers, who work in and out of work, who come and go to work, who live, who feed, and who live in the entire business process, must be recorded and made comprehensive legal arrangements to prevent the deaths of new workers. The way to protect work is to provide the worker with a human living wage and to ensure that the worker works in healthy working conditions. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly again and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0018par0234	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the definition of "Secretary Competents" in different jokes of the 2nd Amendment of the 683 Ordered Mine Law to be changed to "60%" in the definition of "Security Cost," and we would like to propose that "30%" be changed to "40%." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends "Secretive persons: persons authorized by the General Manager's Office, registered in the relevant vocational room, authorized to prepare a report, project and any technical document under this Law, or persons whose company shares are owned by more than half of them as engineers, or those who run a mining search license or a business. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0019par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0018par0245	Ali İhsan İkturk, Zonguldak MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0020par0248	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 2 of the bill. First of all, I salute the High Council. In the past few days, the esteemed MPs, especially Soma and Ermenek, have experienced major mining disasters in Zonguldak, Bartin, Adıyaman, Adana, Şırnak, Turkey, which have triggered the drafting of this bill in different parts of the country. In these mining disasters, hundreds of our miners lost their lives, and the wish that these sufferings would never happen again has become the common priority and cry of our entire nation. On the other hand, our country is at the front of the world's countries in terms of mineral diversity, but it is far behind in taking advantage of the mines. Our average source of over 60 million dollars a year, unfortunately, is paid for the import of mineral products, and that's almost all of our current deficits. Again, in our country, which owns about 10 billion tons of coal -- 1.3 billion tons of stone coal -- our country, which was paid last year only for importing stone coal, has increased to $4 billion. For these two main reasons, the bill should include measures to prevent new suffering, increase job security, increase production and employment in mines, minimise our external dependency in energy and mines, and to ensure that the state puts its body under the stone, not under the stone, unfortunately, with different, reverse insights. As a matter of fact, during talks on the Commission, Mr. Energy's remarks about the privatisation of the damaged mining enterprises -- primarily coal enterprises and Turkey's Taşkomuk -- have made it very clear that the Justice and Development Party's ruling, unfortunately, is no longer secret, is becoming open. Precious lawmakers have caused a major infinitive in Zonguldak, the capital and first province of labour, Zonguldak, which is the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation's statement that Mr. Minister will be privatized by betting that the TTK (TTK) has lost its short name. Because the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation is the only company in our country that produces metallurgical coals that can be sniffed. Stone coal is also a source of heat and energy that is indispensable, which is the backbone of heavy industry. As a matter of fact, our country's largest industrial enterprises, such as Brother and EMERGENCY, were founded in Turkey's Tashkomu Basin, and TTK carried these heavy industrial institutions on their shoulders for years. This, in turn, led to the heavy industry in Sakarya, Kopeeli, and Istanbul, by holding up CATES (CATES) which was built in the region. Not only did he perform these national tasks, but he created the lifeblood of Zonguldak, Blackbuke and Bartin. However, Mr. Secretary has been able to say in the Commission that the institution that has paid such heavy costs for the country will be privatised, or, rather, destroyed, and -- just as our Laveli MP said -- will be pursued, unfortunately, to its ruling supporters. Dear lawmakers, why did TTK damage it? The investments he had invested in the country for years have not been paid to invest in the country; wells, galleries, infrastructure preparations have not been done, unfortunately, not accomplished at the time; it has not been allowed to replace pensioners; norm staff at Turkey's Taşkomömü Agency has been 14,000, although the number of employees has dropped to the 9,000, but unfortunately it has been brought to a point by the Justice and Development Party's power to be unable to produce workers, and the institution has been deliberately damaged by the Justice and Development Party's power. Now, I would like to ask Mr. Minister: Mr. Minister, you will not invest in the institution, you will bring the institution to a point where you cannot produce by preventing production workers from being taken from it, and you will try to privatize it on the grounds that the damage has increased, or you will try to give it legitimacy as a reason to destroy Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation. Is such understanding acceptable, Mr. Secretary? In the past, there have been those who coveted it, but the people of Zonguldak have carved in their history the honorable stand against the policies of the destruction of Zonguldak, a miner, a villager, a tradesman, a man, a man, a young man, an old man, and a TTK. Today, the Zonguldak people will never allow the destruction of Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation, and will take over Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation in the tenure and determination to walk to Ankara with the 100,000. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0021par0257	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 2nd Amendment to some Laws. Article 1. We propose and provide a change in the definition of the established corporate person in his joke as follows. (Secretized persons: Engineers or persons who have a license to search for or operate mines, or operates under this Law, who have been authorized by the General Manager to prepare reports, projects and all kinds of technical documents, who own more than half of their shares in their name or company shares, or who employ engineers whose qualifications and quantity are regulated. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0022par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0021par0268	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0023par0271	Mr. President, I have made a promise of the 2nd Amendment to Mining Law number 683 and the Amendment to certain Laws. I salute your high council. Unfortunately, our country's history is filled with mine accidents, which have been painful, heartbreaking, irreparable deaths. There is no compensation for the suffering that has been left in the hearts, in the hearts, and in the hearts, in the families of our dead workers, except for the recent catastrophes in Soma, in Ermenek. I, now, have no intention of retelling and disseminating the painful families of our mine workers in particular. We all know that the cost of illegalities in the mines where accidents took place has been lost. What we have left of Soma is a picture of the sadness on the faces of the miners' children and a miner who had lost a relative who had been kicked on the floor by the Prime Minister's Counselor himself. In years, these two images will never be erased from society's memory. Dear friends, this power continues to apply the despotic pressure we've been expressing from the beginning in every field. Wherever he sees an opponent, he crushes his head, trying to destroy anyone who isn't himself. I'm going to tell you about one of the closest examples of this. Near Kayseri, the minister also has a land - a gold mine; a gold mine in Himmetde. This mine belongs to the Koza Gold Enterprises, which is the first Turkish gold mine to be discovered by our geologists, designed by our engineers. In 2012, Koza Gold invested to mine gold in Kayseri's Himmedede region, following the CED positive report by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 2012. In early 2014, the company, which completed the investment, received all necessary legal permits and documents, applied for a temporary activation document to move to production in June. But do you know what the Ministry did? He didn't give this document to the Koza Group for no reason. The $110 million investment was held for months without production because the Ministry refused to allow it. Now, I ask you, isn't it a double standard not to allow the minerals of cocoons, where everything is normal in terms of labor health and safety, even when the killings of workers are allowed? It's called, honey, an illegal attempt to stop the work of gold mines. No matter what you say, it's a vindictive understanding. There's only one reason, and you know what, the Silk Koza Group, which exists in the media industry, is that it doesn't surrender to power. In fact, in the past, when he was carrying water into the mill of power, he gave up after December 17th and 25th. The power has, in its joy, prevented this gold mine from working. Investigating the mines where innocent, pure, only after its bread, and yet, the people who have lost their lives because of your illegalities. With this vindictive approach, you're hurting the worker who's working for a living and the investor who's trying to do something for the development of the country and the main Turkish economy, you don't know it or you realize it, you're doing it on purpose. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, look at the mine of gold that the government has prevented from working: what kind of mine 300 people have been employed, where the doctor, eight paramedics have served here for 24 hours, where the ambulance, the fire department, has been constantly standing ready for negatives. It's a gold mine where the corporate search and rescue team is fully prepared to help, where the chemical spill-resistant clothing that should have been worn in the mine in the event of disaster is a prerequisite. Is that what you're punishing this place for? You don't work in other mines where disaster strikes because of a chain of negligence to cover up your own illegalities? The work you've done has been done with a sense of resentment. As you have declared enemies to yourself, right is an act of law and justice. Take into account the families and children of workers who work in the mine of gold. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0024par0277	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The "double the legal cost" of the "designary base price" in the first amendment to the 683 Order 3213 Mining Act, which is held at the same time in the first article in the frame of Article 3 of the Charter. The minister may grant this authority in the necessary circumstances." Their statements are "registered by the General Manager's Office." We offer and offer to replace it. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 3rd Amendment to certain Laws. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "The second joke of Article 3-3213 of the Law has been changed as follows, the last sentence of the fourth joke has been removed from the article text and the following joke has been added to the article to come after this joke. "Maden licenses and rights of accession can be transferred. Before the time is done, the cost of the search and business licenses will be doubled the price of the return fee on the day of the transfer. Times take place with Ministry approval." "The procedure and the basis for transfer and deployment are determined by regulations." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Act 683, which regulates Article 5 of Mining Law 3213, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0025par0305	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0024par0306	Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0026par0309	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As you know, mines and mining in our country have been known to be a disaster in recent years, and when a change in the mineral law comes, we expect it to be avoided and taken precautions on this issue, but that's not the way to change the law. We, especially in the source of all this trouble, evil, disaster, see here as responsible for the government's political position in pursuing private capital, opening public resources to looting, and, of course, the responsibility of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources and the NEGHP is once again drawing attention to the responsibility of its administration. Now, valued lawmakers, there's an institution here that has the most to say about this, there's a vocational room, the Mining Engineers Room. The 16,000-member chamber participates in these Commission studies, while the amendment is being discussed, it gives motions in 20 different areas, but it is impossible to get any of them to listen to the government. Of course, it won't, because as long as it's not run by public hands, these disasters will continue. Why? Because the rejection continues. Why? Because here's the price of registration with the current guarantee, and we're talking about the custody regime, the Ministry, which has all the power, all the power, and all the power, and the same way, by linking the license transfer to it, has brought up a political area in this area that may be a subject of questionable and abuse. Of course, this technical detention agency will be eliminated and replaced with the matter of authorized legal interests, where engineers from 1,440 engineering offices and 2,880 mining engineers will be out of work, and in return, the MEGIM will be able to activate such an institution. Obviously, our underground resources are once again being quotad for the stock market, which is being pursued by international capital. Look what the miners want, and what it turns out: Last week we met with miners who had suffered this great disaster in Soma, and in Kınuk. The coal mine workers are crying blood, 400 unemployed, they say: "There is not a single thing against us. Neither the government nor the company nor the union are listening to us in any way. But we get letters every month when we're working there, if you have problems with anything, if you have a claim, T.K.I. would meet all of them. These are the official articles. We should work in state security. Of course, the establishment of a mining mining ministry, the removal of the mining law, the establishment of mining in such a way, such as these changes, with political merits, with interferences, with a guardianship, to be saved from it, again, from the main demands of mining engineers. The establishment of a strong and effective control unit within the MiGEM is being expressed in the same way. So look, the world and, of course, our country, the left-wing coalition on the other side of the Aegean is talking about the success, the great wave, the excitement. What are their first applications? They're stopping the privatisation of ports, explaining that energy will stop privatisation of mines. This is what the people of Greece expect, the people of Turkey, the workers of Turkey, and the miners who are buried in the mines and thousands of them are out of work on the land. This is what the government expects. Let our public resources, mines, our underground wealth be looted. Let the ministry carry out its responsibility here. That's why we want this change removed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0027par0317	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 3rd Amendment to certain Laws. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "The second joke of Article 3-3213 of the Law has been changed as follows, the last sentence of the fourth joke has been removed from the article text and the following joke has been added to the article to come after this joke. "Maden licenses and rights of accession can be transferred. Before the time is done, the cost of the search and business licenses will be doubled the price of the return fee on the day of the transfer. Times take place with Ministry approval." "The procedure and the basis for transfer and deployment are determined by regulations." Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMITOR Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0028par0329	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0027par0330	Are you going to talk, or do I need you to read the motive?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0029par0331	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0027par0332	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to ensure that the transfer of mineral licenses and rights will be approved by the Ministry rather than by the Minister's approval. In this case, the Ministry will be held responsible and in charge of institutional procedures. Otherwise, due to the Prime Minister's General Assembly of 2012/15, the license period of several miners who have not yet carried out the transfer process will still be left to the Minister's approval, instead of one person, the Prime Minister. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. That way, since the further infraction has been accepted, I'll remove the other motion from the process. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the provision of the provision of Article 683 of the proposed law shall be edited and arranged according to the draft text of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the "expension and collateral" in Article 4 of Article 7 of the Mining Law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 4th Amendment to certain Laws. We offer and propose that the last joke of the article be changed in the following way. "The decision on the environmental impact assessment will be halted by an administrative fine of $30,000 if the decision is granted to open a business and work permit, without a property permit, or if it is found to be operating in violation of the thirteenth joke. If these violations are determined to be done three times or more in three years, the license will be revoked." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the last joke, which is held in the following manner, with Article 4 of the current 683 Order 3213 Mining Law. "The decision on the assessment of environmental impact is either without a property permit or 13. An administrative fine shall be imposed on the price of the registration base, and action in this area will be halted if it determines that it has been committed in violation of the joke. As of the date the administrative fine was imposed, the license will be revoked if the violations were determined three times in three years." Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0030par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0027par0365	Reza Yalçınkaya, MP of Bartın, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0031par0368	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the 4th article of the bill. While this bill, which we discussed today, is being discussed in the commission, Mr. Minister, in his speech, regarding Turkey's only producer of stone coal, Turkey's Taşkomömu Foundation, we have seen there that during the AKP's rule, the institution has been given $6 billion, it has to be quickly privatised by expressing damage to the institution for 12 years. You find an easy solution in your own mind to remove TTK (TTK) from other areas by gradually shutting down employees who work in each closed business, based on the quality of businesses in terms of the caloric value of coal to increase efficiency in these areas. My fellow public defenders, Mr. Minister, in his talks on the commission, talks about the closure of Turkey's Taşkomu Foundation, which has been holding up the country's economy and Turkish industry for years, and the removal of the bread from the baker. There's no way to understand this approach. We think it's better to take the bread from the baker. In a job that requires expertise, such as mining, it has to be done by competent people and institutions. In this country, both the owners of the mining and the master of stone coal are Turkey's Taşkomuru. Look, in the past years, you've made some attempts by saying, "Let's give it to your people." In Zonguldak Karadon, the man who knew the business, the gallery was given to the subcontractor, which cost 34 lives. It happened again in Kozlu, which cost 18 lives. The redevansian company in Bartın Amasra has not been able to extract coal for ten years, but 11 workers have lost their lives in preparation. Construction firms were given mining jobs, calling them competent. Is that your idea of expertise, for God's sake? The bakers you chose to buy bread are unfortunately not bakers, but butchers. How many lives do you have to lose to see this, how many stoves have to go out? There is a remarkable fact in the mining accidents in Turkey that firms who took the job didn't take the necessary measures for more profit, which is that subcontractors work for those who don't know how to do it in mines, opening doors to disasters. Turkey is the master of the production of stone coal in Turkey, and is the main resident of Turkey's Taşkomuru. This institution has been producing coal for a hundred years. Despite all the negatives and shortcomings that have been run by TTK in recent years, there have been no decent investments, but there have been no fatal accidents. All the fatal accidents took place in the areas run by non-compulsive companies, whose mines you used to run, calling them the best of the business. Mr. Secretary, in the commission meeting where the bill is discussed, while defending the privatisation and privatisation of the Januarys, we will privatise all institutions, but you use the statements of workers' health and job security. But when we see what happened in Soma, in Ermenek, in Bartin's Amasra, we regret to say that these statements do not seem to be credible to us, and our concerns for the safety of our workers are increasing. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's Taşkomömu Foundation and it is clear that if investments are increased and new technology is started to extract coal, there will be a major reduction in the damage household. Mr. Secretary, for nearly 12 years on the commission, during our AKP governments, we lost around 6 billion there. Okay, it can be considered a social project, but I think it's important not to leave such a project ahead. There's no way to understand that thought. Disperse the coal free of charge, but see the labor of that coal maker as damage to the money he took in exchange for his sweat. You're talking about 6 billion damages in 12 years, but you're building a palace for $2.5 billion. You're talking about shutting down these jobs where 40,000 workers work with their families working in the area and care for their children, and you're talking about savings. There's really no way to understand you. Invest in TTK, hire workers, increase production, Mr. Secretary, instead of building an illegal palace for luxury and debdebe. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0032par0381	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 4th Amendment to certain Laws. We offer and propose that the last joke of the article be changed in the following way. "The decision on the environmental impact assessment will be halted by an administrative fine of $30,000 if the decision is granted to open a business and work permit, without a property permit, or if it is found to be operating in violation of the thirteenth joke. If these violations are determined to be done three times or more in three years, the license will be revoked." Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0033par0391	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0034par0392	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0032par0393	Yes, I'm reading the reason: Under the arrangement, the reduction of the fine on the basis of the stated activities and the number of repetitions described three times in three years have been made clear as the lower limit. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the provision of the provision of Article 683 of the proposed law shall be edited and arranged according to the draft text of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the "expension and collateral" in Article 4 of Article 7 of the Mining Law. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0035par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0032par0405	Yes, Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wanted to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0036par0408	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we've made. I salute you all. As we discuss a law on the Mining Law here, the heart wants to come before the public with a draft that has dealt with all the problems related to the mining field in detail and has passed the proposals for solutions. But unfortunately, so far, in the AKP administration's time, regulations for the detection of the main problems in the mining field, as in all areas, and for the legalisation of solutions, have not been in question so far. We also see that the same mentality, the same understanding, is being maintained in this bill, and we want to stress that in particular. Because the main source of all problems in the mining field is actually the redevance system, a concept based on subcontractorization, based on privatisation. So far, here, over and over, we have stated that this privatisation understanding should be lifted from the understanding of subcontractorization of this redevans system, which led to the death of miners. We've shared here many times how the uncle's system has made mines a graveyard for miners. Unfortunately, in particular, unsecured working conditions in the mining field continue the same way. The fact that even the living rooms, which will save lives in advanced countries, have not been seriously considered yet, is crucial to how serious the AKP government is to reveal its approach to the mining area. We think that in general all production and service processes in the mining field should be done by public hands. Even if you didn't do it by public hand, you had to bring in certain arrangements that would limit excessive profitability, labour exploitation and ecological plunder, but you didn't even worry about the fact that 325 miners lost their lives in the work killings within a year. After those deaths, you've come out, and it's the fate of the business. After some deaths, they've even died well. You've shown some kind of reckless understanding that you can say. So today, problems in the mining field continue to stand in front of us like mountains. We will not support any legal arrangement that is anti-employment and in favor of capital here. Today, I hope you see the rising objections of workers and workers against your anti-work policies in all areas of working life, not just in the mining field. Look, in the metal field, today, metal workers from the United States METAL-İSK Union have decided to strike 22 factories in 10 cities. This is where we celebrate this voice raised by the combined metal workers against anti-employment policies. We want to express that we are on their side as the People's Democratic Party and that we are supporters of their struggle until they come to fruition. The strike, which began today in 22 factories, will rise to 42 factories as of February 19th, and nearly 15,000 workers, workers, will shout out their demands against your anti-work policies. If you don't want to take the worker, the worker, in both the mining area and all other areas of your working life, if you don't want to put up a sense of labor, we think you should listen to the demands that come out of this strike. To this day, I'm afraid you've done nothing but legalize the most brutal neoliberal policies, regulate them in favor of capital. I hope you'll stop this mistake as soon as possible. In the interest of labor, we say you're going to go public with legal regulations that predate labor health and job safety. So I say, as long as this bill is discussed, we, the People's Democratic Party, will continue to share our objections from here with our people and the General Assembly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0037par0416	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 9 with Article 5 in the frame of Article 5 for the amendment of the 683 Order Numbered Mining Law, we propose and propose the addition of the "and so-so" declaration following the declarations of "size, port, road." Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added to Article 5 of Article 9 of Mining Act 3213, in accordance with the current law bill 683 rows. "The rights to benefit from the incentives set by the Council of Ministers may be withdrawn as a result of analysis of the impact of mining activities on social and cultural tissue and the level of ecological destruction. This directional reports are carried out by vocational rooms and relevant NGOs." Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0038par0439	I have made a pledge on Mining Law number 3213 of Law Bill 683, which is currently in session. I salute the General Assembly. In the 1980s, when the neoliberal transformation, which began with autonomous power, slows down in the 1990s, overcoming US imperialism with a project to reshape the Middle East, the AK PARTI made the country and the region an important actor. In particular, the AKP, a coalition of forces and interests within itself, has reached a vast scale that has exceeded its developmental path on the big right, followed by the self-improved development course. The great right acts with the awareness that its own political legitimacy and power in the struggle for power are primarily to address the desire for material prosperity. The origin of conservative liberal synthesis and the most serious root of Turkey's liberalism are here. In order to understand after 2002, it is important to study the understanding of economic policies and development of the EC PARTY through this root. In particular, a new capital buildup regime has been created over the construction sector and the redistribution of urban sites. Here, as the industrial sector continues to be the primary sector, the second cycle of capital, the fixed capital investment of urban-building environments, factories, infrastructure systems, schools, hospitals, housing areas, different components of urban-made environments, such as shopping centers, were constantly rebuilt and rebuilt for the profitability of capital. The concept of the capital class, the common interest of the capital class, which will transform government and space as planned authority during the urban transformation process, is a sign of the developmental rhetoric of the EC PARTY. This developmental understanding, based on the rank and the interests of the capital class, has been the executive of a practice that leaves everything to the market and to the mercy of the market by liquidating all collective structures that would prevent private capital from profiting. For this reason, the final name of the use of all existing policies of neoliberalism was the Soma massacre. On 13 May 2014, the disaster at the Eynez mine in Soma Charcoal Enterprises was recorded as one of the biggest work murders of the last hundred years. Among the reasons for the Soma massacre are problems in the ventilation systems, lack of escape routes, lack of personal protective equipment, infrastructure and technological problems, but the first perpetrator of the Soma massacre, where 301 mine workers lost their lives, is the neoliberal system that rehabilitates a slave life to workers for Rant greed. The executive of the economic and political organisation of this neoliberal system has been the government of the EC PARTY. Even after the death of 301 miners, the EC PARTY government failed to take a stand for capital, and could not ask for the resignation of interested ministers in the need for political responsibility. As part of the Mining Law, which is discussed in this way, is not the miner's, but the arrangement that prioritizes the interests. As we discuss this arrangement, he says that we must not forget the Soma massacre and the responsibility of the AK PARTY (AK PARTI) in this massacre, with which I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0039par0449	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 9 with Article 5 in the frame of Article 5 for the amendment of the 683 Order Numbered Mining Law, we propose and propose the addition of the "and so-so" declaration following the declarations of "size, port, road." Sakine Öz (Manisa) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, BlTlM AND TECHLOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. Are you going to talk, or do I need you to read the motive?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0040par0460	He'll explain the motive, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0039par0461	Doğan Şafak, Nüğde MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0041par0464	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, friends on materials, they've had enough talking. I want to talk about the debt of 160,000 subscribers in agricultural irrigation to private companies and government because the Minister of Energy is here. The minister wants to pay off 80 per cent of the agricultural irrigation farmer's debts to the state and the MEDASH. There is a strong demand for this issue, but they are avoiding restructuring debts to the state at the moment. Because these farmers have debts to the private sector. In this regard, your debts to the MEDASH must first be structured. Because of the debt to MEDASH, the farmer cannot receive electricity. Therefore, farmers who can't get electricity don't produce. Why should I repay my debt to the state? He is acting rationally or unable to repay the debt of the farmer, who is in the executive clamp of the MEDASH, because he does not produce what he owes to the state. For example, in Orhanlı, a farmer's three-year principal debt to MEDASHA is 60000 TL, but today, with interest, it has reached 155,000 Turkish liras. When another farmer showed me his bill, he owed me $560,000 for four years. What is this, my brother, that you run a dam? When I said it, it caused citizens to laugh in front of MEDASH. Private corporate debt is structured in other parts of the country, and it needs to be structured in the inner Anatolian region. The citizens of Niğde are also citizens of Orhanlı, Edikli and Ağcasar, Lakecuk, Binmuk, Karatlı, Konklı, and villages of the country; they did not come from Italy, and must they dig a ditch in front of MEDAŞ? Dear friends, the MEDAS company must expand its purchases to five years and instalment or consolidate its capital by swallowing its interest. In agricultural irrigation, electricity bills must be collected at the end of the harvest, not at the monthly rate. These private companies have already collected the bills from the citizens by collecting the missing fugitives, opening and closing fees. WHAT the infrastructure from TEDAS is, it's unclear where it's going. Our citizens, who use energy to water agriculture under 160, 180 metres of ground, are already having trouble making a living because their energy costs are heavy. They can't compete with the manufacturers who make normal irrigation. This problem began during the AKP period. Don't pay the MPs in the 2002 election propaganda, brother, are you a sucker? We'll get forgiveness. They've misdirected the citizen by propaganda in the form of a propaganda. In the Niğde and Nevşehir region, it is not possible for citizens to work on peaceful farming as they are present. A solution to this problem is needed immediately. Another problem is that in some villages drinking water is often cut off due to electricity debt. Mr. Secretary, it's the right way to give electricity 50% off and support to these poor villages where there is no water or land in this matter, for the wells of vital drinking water. Sometimes there are villages that have been watered down for 15 days. Congressmans, we find it unfair to privatise strategic businesses such as the power company, State Railways, PTT, airports, ports. I'd like to make an example of how important this is. Before the Greeks invade Izmir, Turkish soldiers, who are unable to defend İzmir, want to transport ammunition and ammunition through iron to the interior to defend them. When the cars are loaded with ammunition, the French own the Izmir State Railways, and on that day, engineers and State Railway personnel declare a strike. So, taking into account the future of tomorrows and the security of the country, taking into account production, it's the right way for such institutions to be in the hands of the state and society. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0042par0472	Thank you. The commission has a request for a reduction. Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a technical request to correct the matter. We would like to remove the phrase from the text after the description of the road so that there will be no speech disorder. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 683 Sequence Number 6 of the Common Law of Manden and the Law of Change in Some Laws. We offer and propose that the following joke be added after the second joke of the article. The expense of the permanent custodian is paid for by the "permanent co-management fund" created by the miners. The procedure and the basis for the creation of the fund are determined by the regulation to be issued by the Ministry. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Shandır Congressmans, I'm going to have two motions that I'm going to read now, and I'm going to do the same thing, and I'm going to do it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last joke added with Article 6 of the Box 6 shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Doğan Gündüz Sakine Öz Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya "Securities established to perform the procedures defined under this Law are required to obtain a warrant from the General Manager's Office for the search or the search for minerals. The procedure and basis for the suspension of audits, notices, authorization documents and the cancellation of the document are determined by regulations." The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the same proposals? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMITOR Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0043par0505	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0042par0506	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0044par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. We always have a recommendation to the government about this mining industry and the mining arrangements. Really, if you want to make these jobs healthy -- I mean, of course, our country's underground wealth will be assessed -- if you want to protect nature, history, culture, human life, ecology, and other companies, foreign companies, if you don't want to pursue the wealth of this country, there's only one thing you can do: establish the ministry of mining in Turkey. Set up the Mining Ministry and gather here all matters related to mining. Now, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is interested in the HESEs. You see, on the one hand, there are issues that concern the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. You're looking at the Department of Environment and Urbanization is running a separate CED report, a separate ministry. You see, beyond that, the Minister of Development says: "The Mandens are in my field. " The Minister of Economics comes out, and I am the boss of the economy. The Minister of Finance says, "Wait, wait. I have the treasure, I have the money, I will have the state share." Then the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Secretariat of the Treasury comes out and says I'm the boss. Now -- tell me -- how many departments of mining, I don't know how many general managers, not enough -- you've recently brought this mess into a district in 2012, you've linked license permits to the Prime Minister in June 2012. Friends, what good is this going to do when you bring him in all these messes and give the PM a license, the legal people, the boards, the boards that you're going to set up? Can you tell me now, can you tell me now? The pursers are walking around, licensed, Turkey's geography, no more than a square inch of friends, all licensed and distributed to close party members. Everyone map their own country, there's no space, friends, there's no empty space. Metal, mine, coal, HES, wind, whatever you can think of, nuclear power plants, now thermal plants. Can such a messy economic organisation really succeed? It can't be successful, guys. It appears in Soma. It can't be. It appears in Ermenek. It can't be found in Afshin. It's still seen in Zonguldak. It's seen in Şırnak. It's seen in other parts of Turkey. Well, what's it gonna be? So if you started a mining ministry... it's in every developed country. We studied in Canada. As parliament, there is the Ministry of Mining. Go to South Africa; there is, even in China; even in North Korea, my brother, even in North Korea. Yeah, what's going on? Why isn't he here? One, this government does not continue to establish the ministry of naval affairs; two, it does not establish the ministry of mining; three, it does not establish the women's ministry. Women are killed for him every day, so our seas are miserable; they are all miserable from water products to pollution; even natural gas, oil deposits to Cyprus are ruined; and we have come to the mine; we have come to the mine, suffering, screaming, screaming; there is no job safety; there is no health safety; there is no, there is no health safety; there is no, there is no, there is no, there is no, there is no. Brother, why don't you do something right? Why can't this Congress all form a policy together? We say, "Come, let's set up the mining ministry." That's it. There's no order in this country if there's a sound in every head, my friends.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0045par0513	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who wants a word on the same proposals. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0046par0517	Mr. President, there should be no discussion on the motions the government has agreed to.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0045par0518	Mr. Sky, the government agrees, but...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0047par0519	I know, sir, we thought we'd bring it up a little bit.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0045par0520	But it's not easy.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0047par0521	I just...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0045par0522	It's different, but it's not polite, which we gave it to you at the request, you know.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0048par0523	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says we're not against it. He'd better make a statement.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0049par0524	After the government joins, we'll all agree...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0050par0525	Yes, yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0049par0526	However, Mr. President, in the following process, we'd like to invite you to join the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0051par0527	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0050par0528	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 6th Amendment of Law Bill 683, which we are discussing. Thank you. I also want to thank the government and the Commission for accepting this motion. The main solution to all the issues we've discussed is the end of corruption in Turkey, my dear friends. Corruption is what's draining our entire public finances, people's resources. A Parliament that can't go over corruption can't make other laws in Turkey, even if it has the support of the opposition, my dear friends, because it has to control public resources, people's resources. The vote for the transfer of power to the Supreme Court in the corruption vote we held last week was evident. Now, we're trying to explain the corruption in Turkey when our language returns; our president tells it, we tell it. In our mayors, in our borough presidencys, there have been banners of corruption; police have arrived, raids, police have taken down our banners. Our President-General has announced the events at group meetings, has been held in a court of law, but my dear friends, Turkey is an interesting country. Look, I've got the House Investigation Commission report, more than a brick, 1,178 pages. While we were thinking about how to sell it to the public, how to explain it? Let's be clear, our Parliamentary presidency did an important study and sent readable blogs to everyone. These are blocks -- you see, my dear friends -- 40 to 50 pages. I submit to the information of our citizens and friends who cannot read the 1,178-page Commission for Investigation Report. What's on these pads? We're going to open one of the pages now, Reza Sarraf says on the blog... I'm reading the blog that the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has suppressed, dear friends, not our own claims. Reza Sarraf says, according to this bloc, tomorrow, build a nice chocolate box, not too expensive. Take a silver platter, put 500 grand in it. Sadik knows, but you know who he's pointing at. Take it to E, give it to him. Where does it say it is? He's on the block from the House President. My dear friends, it's really easy to read, easy to pocket. So, on the one hand, the 1,178-page Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report -- it's hard to move, it's hard to read, but our Parliamentary President has done such a beautiful service that when you take 50-60-page blogs, you can put them in your pocket, you can open them on the bus, on the subway, at your home, even at the Capitol. It's possible who spoke or did what from which phone. I'm celebrating, I'm really celebrating, it's important work because he's doing this kind of work. So we've got a lot of these blogs, we're handing it out to our people, and we can send it to you. When you open it, all the corruption documents are written here one by one. Of course, our Parliamentary Presidency thought that the former or printed Investigation Commission Report would be launched, and how do we make it more efficient? Such a brilliant idea came to light. I'd like to thank all the bureaucrats who gave this idea, printed it, applied it, and distributed it separately. I mean, what we want is for our people to know. Most of the MPs don't know about this, but it's possible to find out. You can take your notes on the front face and read them on the back, the explanations of Reza Sarraf. Did you send me dollars? It's not Euro, it's dollars. It's called Riza Sarraf. It goes on and on: "Amanah ha, there's nothing wrong." Abdullah Happani answers: "Dolar, brother, can I send you?" I'm celebrating our House President for his fine work and giving all of you a lot of respect.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0052par0536	Thank you. It's the same thing...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0053par0538	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0052par0539	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0053par0540	First of all, our CHP Group Deputy President friend has brought up a matter on the parliamentary stand, a study of parliament. While new perception operations are being carried out on both the subject of corruption perception, our government is being accused of its own, and on the other hand, I would like to give an answer on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0054par0541	I didn't pick on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0052par0542	Your position, Mr. Aydın... here, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0054par0543	I thanked the Speaker; no teasing, nothing.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0052par0544	I'm giving it to you right now, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0054par0545	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0052par0546	I give every group to the vice president when they want their word.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0055par0549	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we want the Speaker of Parliament to start an investigation because of this bookcase, which has been suppressed by the relevant bureaucrats, and because of this blog, which has been printed under the name of,,,,,, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e, e. It's a scandal.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0056par0551	Ahmet, parallel structure, parallel, parallel!
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0055par0552	It's a scandal. Whoever's behind this... and an investigation that has been closed by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office... both by non-obstructive decision... as well as by the Parliamentary Investigation Commission and by the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0057par0553	Mr. Ahmet, don't push it, don't push it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0055par0554	While there was a legal issue that had been eliminated, we were faced with a scandalous practice, an application that the Parliamentary presidency had never done, which we were never used to. Obviously, we completely deny it. Whoever's behind this, for whatever purpose and reason and the purpose of such an operation, especially the fact that they've already been served outside, that they've already been eliminated, the secrecy of the Commission's documents, which has been made copies of, which have been coerced, and have been converted into a bloc. This is how we do the old documents of the House, the lost documents of the House when we ask. A perception, such as a reason, is an unacceptable reason because we have never encountered such a pad. We don't think it's right to reheat a matter that's finished as part of a perception operation, to have it printed on the opposition harm at the back, and to have it copied and served to the whole of Turkey as a bloc. I'd like to request that the Speakership be processed as soon as possible by investigating this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0556	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0059par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0558	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0059par0559	Mr. President, if you'd like to make a statement, I'll be right over here. If you'll open it, it'll be better.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0560	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0059par0562	Mr. President, this House is a military council. This Parliament was founded on great allegations in Turkey when it was established, bringing Turkey to the level of modern civilization was the main goal of this Parliament and Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends. One of the main ways to achieve this goal is to fight corruption. What's more to be expected of Turkey's Grand National Assembly being sensitive to corruption, so what did it do, Parliament Speaker? The Speaker of Parliament -- he's probably troubled by his conscience -- has prepared a blog to inform both lawmakers and the public and to give more information to our citizens about something that few people think they've read. That's why I'm celebrating again. Mr. Group, I don't agree with what the Vice President has said that this has to be collected immediately. We've already taken this, and we're going to replicate it, and we're going to send it to our citizens and anyone who wants it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0565	Yes, thank you. Mr. Tallermak, you have a voice request, what do you want to say?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0060par0567	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0568	One moment, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0569	And on behalf of the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0570	Would you raise your voice, Mr. Tallie?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0571	And the nationalist movement...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0572	I didn't answer it, sir. Speak up. I didn't open it. Why do you want to talk about it?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0573	In this regard, as a member of the Parliamentary Court...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0574	It's supposed to be the vice president, sir, my app...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0575	And as a member of the Court,
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0576	No, not a member of the Court.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0577	I'm a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0578	Mr. Longitude, the Civil Code is in the middle, so our applications are in the middle.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0062par0579	Mr. President would like a word with you, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0580	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0581	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0582	One: I am a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I am a member of the Court who has done research on the matter in accordance with what Mr. Group Vice President has described. I'd like to brief you on that, and I'd like to make a quick statement.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0058par0583	One minute, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0061par0586	Thank you. One: Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, as the Vice President said, the legal evidence cannot be destroyed within the chain of command, it has entered the state's records. The abuse of December 17th to 25th will always be brought up in this country. Two: there has been no action on the matter as the Council of Presidents. The activity of the Secretary General is an exercise in the evaluation of the past-to-day paper from the past, which is considered environmentally friendly, and there is no point in making meanings other than this practice. If it's become a habit, I think it's possible to charge this place with parallel structures in the coming days. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0063par0590	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0064par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, both the investigative commission and the Parliamentary General Assembly have made a decision regarding the matter. Therefore, the will of the House was established at this point, and it was registered by our great Assembly that the incident was a coup.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0065par0595	It's the AKP's will, not the Parliament's will.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0066par0596	What is it, a coup, what blow?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0064par0597	So, while the General Assembly has decided on this issue, we believe that the will of the nation, while the will of the House is stable at this point, especially if it was done by whoever it was, knowingly or not, that it was part of a perception operation, we think it should be investigated in a very serious sense. I've been a member of parliament for eight years, and I'm here, and I've never met a pad like this. If it's been done since the past, it's been organized, why didn't we get it? Immediately after this Commission, I demand that a block of the Commission's documents be created as a very wrong, very unfair, very non-responsive thing, therefore, by which bureaucrat, however it may have been done, to be discovered and processed as an AK PARTI Group. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0067par0599	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0068par0600	Mr. President, of course we'll talk here.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0069par0601	Mr. President, now he has to promise all groups.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0067par0602	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0068par0604	Thank you, Mr. President. After the AKP Group Deputy President's 17th and 25th December operations and the Supreme Court vote in parliament, the view of describing this as a coup is once contradicting them. Since the beginning, the former prime minister said it was a coup against the government. But, after all, 50 members of the AKP Group voted in different directions during our vote last week. A member of the AKP Group came out of the AKP Group, and he told the MPs who voted, that the MPs who acted differently were in treason. He said, "A group of AKP MPs also know your place." Now, I would like to address all my citizens here. 50 lawmakers acting differently within the AKP Group, if these were a coup, were they aiding and abetting the coup? If so, it is not possible for the AKP's administration to continue the operations developed in such an idea world without processing 50 MPs. We're totally denying it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0607	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Kaplan, I promise you one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0071par0611	Thank you. Mr. President, we, the HDP, are not surprised because the Commission of Investigation has put a gag order on the court and made its decision. As lawmakers, we didn't have access to these wiretaps and... However, it would be a disgrace if the Parliamentary Presidency, in its eco-friendly bloc, published and distributed these wiretaps in its own printing press with its own names, beyond that, is a scandal. Because there's a Commission that bans publication. And then the Speaker of Parliament says, "It's normal, we're suppressing things that have such a reputation, whereas even the Commission has decided to destroy the evidence, even the figures. You know crime evidence can't be destroyed. We, the HDP, did not... This was done in the printing press of the Speakership. If it was a regular newspaper, press, association, union, party, the police would have raided it, taken it all in, put it in front of the judge, all hell broke loose.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0613	Yes, thank you. The memo from the Speaker's office says it's being investigated, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0072par0615	Mr. President, here's the thing.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0073par0616	Is it already started?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0617	Please, Mr. Aydın, please, but it's over, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0073par0618	Was it started immediately, Mr. Group Vice President's complaint started on a tip?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0074par0619	For the record, Mr. President, one last thing in particular...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0620	Mr. Aydın, look, I've made enough promises, it's come to light, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0074par0621	All right, Mr. President, and the President of the House, not to be wronged. Look, Mr. Gök says it's within the knowledge of the Speaker of Parliament, but I don't think it's within the knowledge of the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0622	The motions of the same nature... Please, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0074par0624	The relevant bureaucrat, whoever did it, needs to be investigated and found out somehow.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0075par0625	Sir, I've never blamed anyone, I've never blamed anyone, but I've never accused Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0626	Mr. Sky, it's not true, but what you're doing.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0074par0627	To suppress it with such precision...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0628	Yeah... I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 683 Sequential "The Law of Manden and Some Laws to Change, " the 6th Amendment. We offer and propose that the following joke be added after the second joke of the article. The expense of the permanent custodian is paid for by the "permanent co-management fund" created by the miners. The procedure and the basis for the creation of the fund are determined by the regulation to be issued by the Ministry. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0076par0641	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0070par0642	Mehmet Shangir Mersin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0077par0645	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're really making a law on something important for our country and our people. I would like to take this opportunity to present a few matters to the attention of the Minister, the bureaucrats, the Council. First of all, mining is not an industry we can give up. It is very important and very necessary that our country's natural resources should be presented in the interest of our people, but the recent mining events have brought attention again to the fact that many of our people have lost their lives in the mine accidents in Soma and Ermenek, in particular, and that there are some regulations that need to be made in this regard, and such a bill has come to the government's agenda and has also been met with other proposals. Dear friends, I'd like to first present a matter to the Minister's attention, but this is the way to leave it. It's really not elegant to keep the Commission busy while a law is being negotiated. Dear friends, the arrangement made in 2010 is being reviewed today, but as the opposition has been expressed in the talks held in the Commission, unfortunately, it is not well discussed with the sector's parties, it is not considered by the opposition's proposals, and we have seen here that a number of opposition proposals have been adopted, and it appears that this issue has not been considered seriously in the Commission. I appreciate the acceptance of the motions, but this is such an important issue... so you're facing a disproportionate conclusion in business accidents in Turkey. As responsible for this, I don't commit to anyone, but there is a conclusion. If such shortcomings are being done in the arrangement of mining our country, which is third in the world and first in Europe, it is wrong. Besides, such laws should not be changed so often. The 2010 law is being changed again in January 2015, while two arrangements are being made with the Prime Minister's General Assembly in 2014 and 2012. So, because the measures that need to be taken cannot be taken enough, unfortunately, in business accidents, our country is judged and questioned about mining. That's why I'm saying that by doing a very serious study on something this important, I would like to request that a law be passed that will solve the sector's problems, ensure job security, ensure safety. I'd like to take this opportunity to present a couple of things to your attention. Dear Minister... I mean, this isn't negotiating, Mr. President!
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0078par0652	Mr. Shandir, I understand, but what can I do?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0077par0653	What can we do? I mean, there's got to be an intervention. Who am I talking to?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0078par0654	No, you brought it up a few times.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0077par0655	I mean, who are we talking to?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0078par0656	There's nothing I can do. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0077par0658	Dear friends, mining is important, but agriculture is more important than anything else. We all know the damage that mining businesses, especially open businesses, have done to agriculture here as lawmakers. In particular, what we see in the Toros Mountains is that the quarry businesses, marble businesses, cement factories, and the thermal plants developed in a new way of providing energy are doing enormous damage to Turkish agriculture, fruitism, vegetableism. Let's keep mining, improve, but we can't predict that we're going to kill agriculture. In particular, I'd like to bring to the attention of Mr. Secretary the damage done by the quarry and mines in the south, and I'd like to know what measures there are. Another thing, Mr. Secretary, is that after the privatisation of the power distribution grids, a large number of power outages or other causes caused long-term blackouts, especially during the winter of the frost season, have caused enormous damage to the greenhouses. This needs a solution. I'd like to bring this to your attention at a time when the destruction of agriculture in the industry, beyond the destruction it creates in life, really needs to be taken care of. Another thing: paying off watering electricity debts used in agriculture has become the farmer's nightmare today. And if he does come up with a solution to that, I would like to thank your government for this on behalf of Turkish agriculture. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit02spe0079par0663	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes under the same motions accepted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "20.000" mentioned in the second joke in Article 7 of Section No. 3213 of Section 683, which regulates the second joke in Article 11 of Mining Law, shall be changed to "40.000." Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Önder Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Halil Aksoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7th Amendment to the Law of Manden Law and some Laws, which is currently in session, number 683. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "The following joke has been added to Article 11 of the Law 7-3213 after its second joke. "If the owner of the permit does not participate in the examinations and examinations taken at the location of the deputy or has a license for any reason preventing examinations and examinations, the permit will be fined at the basis of the base price, and if the verb is repeated, double the amount of administrative fine will be imposed. Alibi Light Emin Haluk Ayhan D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the item text by replacing the "fiction" clause under Article 7 of the current Mining Act No. 683. 3213. Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Şafak Namik Havutça Sakine Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Kemal Millendereli If the licensed person or the person he authorized cannot participate in the examinations and examinations of the person before the five work days, if for any reason the registration costs the basis of examinations and examinations are blocked, a two-fold administrative fine will be imposed if the verb is repeated within three years." Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0080par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0079par0030	Haluk Eyidoğan İstanbul MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0081par0033	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we face various dangers of natural and human origin and often predictable in every moment and in every aspect of our lives. ▪ The danger is defined as a situation that can cause harm or destruction. It is a danger of damage and damage. When is the risk zero? If there's no harm caused by danger, the risk is zero. First the dangers are predicted, then the risks of these dangers are assessed and the risks are reduced. So we can minimize the dangers of danger. This approach is what we call risk management. In this new amendment, there's no expression of risk assessment, no risk management. Underground mining, by nature, is one of the world's most heavy workforces that requires special measures, hardware, knowledge, experience, expertise, and constant control from planning, investment and production to marketing. In particular, in the last decade, the errors in reducing public activity have been reflected in the mining sector, construction, closing public mining companies, privatisation, redevance, transfer to the private sector. Unfortunately, there are companies that do not make the necessary scientific and technological investments, which are inadequate in experience and expertise, through Redevans. Therefore, there have been numerous fatal business accidents, as well as the waste of our mining resources in violent production methods. The law on business health and safety in the EU process, the main goal of regulations and regulations, is to bring risk assessment into all areas of life and to improve the security culture of society in this sense. Without a risk assessment, there's no job security. The number of human casualties, due to traffic and business accidents, has unfortunately exceeded the number of casualties due to natural disasters. To determine the dangers and risks, for example, in mining, coal exploration and oil exploration, in the operating stages of these natural resources, underground geological, geophysics, and geotechnic research must be done simultaneously. In mining galleries, geophysical research should be conducted, such as seismic, electrical autonomy. High-tech houses, cars, phones, computers and tablets all over the place, but technology, unfortunately, didn't land on our mines. As for technology investment for production and protection, the situation is dire. See what the Soma expert's report from September 2014 says: "The way and method of airing are not suitable for a fire-threatening underground furnace. There are no essential and inflammable materials for the risk of fire, and the relevant infrastructure has not been created. The control logs of carbon monoxide gas masks have not been checked and sanctioned. The data from the gas meter book and the data from the sensors don't match. Records are kept randomly. Those who are obliged to control the sensors and who are tasked to evaluate the data obtained have neglected their duties. It's been forced into production. The audits have not conducted extensive inspections, considering the differences in the business project, the programming and production. The electrical system of the business is not reliable for running the mine. Gas sensors have been determined not to be calibrated by an accrued institution or organization. Well, it's been confirmed that the telecommunications devices at the scene didn't work at the time of the accident. The method and technique applied is not suitable for this coal mine, which is suitable for burning. There is no part of risk assessment about measures to be taken. There is no evacuation plan in January. We are talking about risk management and risk assessment in every area in this country. In Turkey, we still live together with the painful consequences of the violent production system and its unsatisfactory greed for profit. Hopefully, this will be the last time. Those who die are workers, workers, and poor people after a bite of bread. This is what happens when short - term turnabouts are performed, rather than glorifying reason and sanity, rather than progressing towards becoming a knowledge society. Where's science and technology, where's world mining standards, where's risk management? In Turkey, construction, industry and mining, we have to give up violent production methods, use modern methods of high-tech production. Otherwise, business accidents and human casualties will continue. I remember our lives, our workers, with respect and mercy, from neglect in business disasters, and I wish these sufferings to be over and not to be repeated. I believe these messages will also reach the relevant locations. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0082par0045	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7th Amendment to the Law of Manden Law and some Laws, which is currently in session, number 683. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "The following joke has been added to Article 11 of the Law 7-3213 after its second joke. "If the owner of the permit does not participate in the examinations and examinations taken at the location of the deputy or has a license for any reason preventing examinations and examinations, the permit will be fined at the basis of the base price, and if the verb is repeated, double the amount of administrative fine will be imposed. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0083par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0082par0057	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0084par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, countries who do not use their reserves and potentials can't escape their destiny to suffer lack of wealth. It's a very expensive, very technical and very difficult business to extract and use underground resources, or mines. As we dig these mines out of the ground, we also need a serious investment in creating the environmental impact of the mines and making peace with the environment, in line with the ecosystem. Mines are people, companies are tools. It's important not to run people's resources through political debates and refuse to submit them to the people's orders, to mean the welfare of the nation. It is leftist, rightist, religious, parallelist, means to approach the mines, to operate them, and to stop the people from being managed or produced to contribute directly to the employment of the nation, directly to the economy of the nation, to the welfare of the nation. Now, just as this capital doesn't have green, red, orange, it doesn't have miners, it doesn't have parallels to mining, it doesn't have rectangles, it doesn't have slopes. A miner is a miner. Everybody's got to come to their senses. The Koza Gold Company is a 100 per cent Turkish capital company founded to search and operate gold mines. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, a Turkish company has begun its production of gold, using the most advanced technology in various parts of Turkey, continuing its activities in harmony with the environment. The silver house is also a gold mine. He invested in the region, opened a business, and contributed very seriously to the region's economy. Established by the efforts of Turkish engineers and continued production until today, Mastra in the Silverhouse supports the gold mine, the country and the Silver House economy in particular. In this regard, he added 18.2 tons of gold to today's economy. Anyone with a conscience should appreciate the average 30 million dollars a year contribution to the economy of a province with 38,000 inhabitants. The company employs 600 people -- since each family consists of four -- means it gives 2,400 people bread. After December 17th, every effort has been made to stop the business of this company and to make it difficult. Thus, this company has to put an end to 600 people and remain in its position. On the other hand, when compared with other mining companies in the region at the same time, it is considered to be working much more orderly, much healthier, and much more economically advanced. In the AKP period, bad bureaucrats fire good bureaucrats, as in mining, bad businesses fire good businesses. Now, mining can't be a tool for ambitions, hatreds and grudges. There can be no political reckoning through mining. Parallel paranoia can't make the Silver House's bread be taken away. Now, the Minister is here. I'm asking the Minister that the mining business in this Silver House -- which is the same company -- has been allowed to operate and operate all businesses elsewhere. However, it is not allowed in the positive sense that any positive and licenses that the company has legally established are in the positive sense that the company intends to hand over the mining business to an AKP tandant, pool-sponsored businessman. That is a great sin, a sin, a sin. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's nothing bearable about it. Mr. Secretary, while I'm here, I'm going to finish by saying something out loud. This is a company that currently has no shortage of economic or mining. I dare you. Come on, check us all out. If we're missing anything, let's do it. There's no such thing, but political debates are trying to block the operation of this company. People are out of work there. These people need to be licensed and run as soon as possible. There is no third way. With each passing day, a number of resources from our economy have been wasted without an opportunity. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0085par0075	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "20.000" mentioned in the second joke in Article 7 of Section No. 3213 of Section 683, which regulates the second joke in Article 11 of Mining Law, shall be changed to "40.000." Halil Aksoy and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0086par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0085par0085	Halil Aksoy on the motion, Ağrı MP... Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0087par0087	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, unfortunately, have no meaning in nature or human life in the face of the government's greed for profit. See, 14455 workers have lost their lives in the work killings in Turkey over the past 12 years. Some of it happened in shopping malls, roads, bridges, HES constructions, and, of course, most of it happened in mines. In the mining industry alone, the business killing of 2014 and the injury balance sheet are also very heavy. There were 81 mining disasters in 2014; 371 mine workers were killed, and 84 mine workers were severely injured for the collapse, the flu explosion, the fire, the flooding, and so on. Unfortunately, these numbers will also increase in 2015, since the measures have not been taken. Because there is no legal regulation in the existing laws that protects the health and safety of workers, and it is not in the bill we're negotiating. See, the massacre in Soma, which resulted in the death of 301 mine workers, has become the greatest mining disaster in the world. Legal legislation in Turkey is an ideological approach to the health of the work, not the safety of the worker, but the safety of the job. The Soma massacre has once again demonstrated that the employer is focused on protecting business health and job safety, which is focused entirely on profit greed, the laborer and the laws that must prioritize his health. There was no concrete attempt to stop the soma massacre from killing workers, to get lessons to ensure the safety and health of workers. As we have just stated, unfortunately, the future bill also shows that no initiative will be made in that sense. Again, Karaman was seen again in the mining massacre in Ermenek, Karaman, on October 28th, when the necessary lessons were not learned from the disaster in Soma. Because the AKP's development model is based on labour exploitation and labour massacres. The AKP government boasts that there are high towers, towers reaching to the heavens, every glittering mall, huge growing conglomerates, the TOKIESTs, and the HESESTs, the workers' lives. Dear lawmakers, the government still does not take into account the 600-page report of the State Control Board of June 8, 2011, which presents the reasons for the massacres of workers and lists measures to be taken. At the same time, it does not process law enforcement activities of opposition parties in parliament. According to the State Control Board's report, 86.3 per cent of workers exposed to job killings have been found to be made up of 53.56 per cent of workers who have lost their lives as a result of work killings. The job killings in the mines and the responsibility of the government are publicly confessed by the top authorities of the state. In this country, workers will continue to be victims of murder, as long as they are not charged with manslaughter by intent and murder, instead of causing death in installments. Precious MPs, the mentality that committed the work killings in Ermenek, Zonguldak, and Şırnak, are equally brutal in nature, causing major destructions in nature and natural destabilisation; thermal plants are the most concrete example of this. It must not be forgotten that no policy or project, which doesn't care about human life and health, slays nature, has a chance of survival. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0088par0094	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "30.000 TL" bill found in Article 8 of Mining Act No. 683 to be changed to "the cost of the state base" in the framework of Article 8 of the Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 8 of Section 3213, Article 8 of the Law Bill 683, which shall be held in the article 3213, there is a guarantee written in the 7th article of the Mining Law, which states that "$30.000 administrative fine is imposed" and the statement in its eighth joke has been changed in the following manner. It has been changed and added an administrative fine of £30,000 to come after the sentence. Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Ata İdris Baluken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th Amendment to the Law of Manden Law and to some Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "MEDDE Article 8-3213's fourth sentence of Article 12 of the Law was changed in the form of "twelve times" in the form of "twelve times" in its fifth joke, "three times" in the form of "two times" in the form of "twelve," the sixth joke in its seventh joke, "responsibility is registered" in the form of a "20.000 euro administrative fine" and in the eighth joke. "Objects will be halted if it is determined that production is produced without permission to produce materials and that raw materials are used in public projects. An administrative fine is fined as much as a January sale price for the operation of raw materials produced in this area. For raw materials used without any processing, the price per January is calculated according to the price of Tovenan raw materials at the beginning of January. If the raw materials produced from the production permit are found to be used outside projects made by public institutions and companies, the price of administrative fines is twice the price of sale of non-purpose raw materials, which is used for carrying out the operation. In the second time that production is determined to use outside the goal specified in the project, the permit will be revoked by a administrative fine of twice the price of January's sale of raw materials." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION OF AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir) Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0089par0122	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0088par0123	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to reduce the fines imposed on the verbs. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Since the most irregular motion has been accepted, I'm withdrawing the other two motions from the process. I submit the clause to your votes in a motion adopted by those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law bill 683 rows shall be changed into "including city municipalities" in the 6th amendment to Article 13 of Mining Law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "70%" sign in the frame article 9 of the 683 Orders of Mine Law shall be replaced as "60%" and "30%" as "40 percent," which shall be replaced from the article text of the next sentence, with a sentence of "20.000 euros and an administrative fine. Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Günah Sakine Öz Attila Kart Kemal Millerdereli Namik Havutça The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, The 683 Sequential Code and the 9th Amendment to Some Laws. We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. "MEDDE 13-All registration costs must be paid by the end of January each year for licenses under way. 65% of the business license fee is deposited into the accounting department account account account account account account account account account account, which will be placed in the ministry's account account account account account account, which gives 35% of the license to carry out environmental integration plans. I. The group (a) license costs of the mines are deposited into the municipal private administration account in the cities outside the city's municipality. If the registration price is not deposited or missing, the registration will be fined on the basis of a administrative fine, and the registration fee is asked to be completed within three months. In the meantime, the license will be revoked if the registration fee is not paid. According to Code 6183, the amount of registration costs 65% of the non-instruction fee is reported to the collection office for surveillance and collection. You can't charge a license for spring salts. After the operation, the cost of harmonisation with the environment is returned. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Münir Kutluata Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0090par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0088par0155	Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0091par0158	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise on the grounds of Article 9 of Bill 683. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, although the mine is heavy, a bag of legislation is being passed again as basic law. Therefore, no law of ours is judged by its understanding and precision by its perpetuity, so that it does not need to be changed again. It's seen as part of this general departure. Dear lawmakers, we've already stated that Turkey can't turn capital into production, capital can't produce, we know that from companies, companies, companies, which have been named in the last term sector; it's headed towards capital Rant fields. It is clear that the mining field is viewed as a Rant area in this area, so our mining law cannot take the necessary measures and can't make the necessary arrangements. You can no longer see a free-flowing stream in Turkey, and you will not find an unlicensed mining area in Turkey. They show that instead of producing, there was an image of the looting of natural resources. However, these resources are common property of the nation. Now I'm going to give you an example from Sakarya to tell you how it works and how it causes hoards, Mr. Secretary, and I really want to learn from you. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to pay attention, it's a serious issue and it's a conundrum: 49,000 acres of land in Sakarya are given to a company on the basis of mineral water operations. It is viewed as 33,000 acres of the company's own license, which the governorate uses in their correspondence as 49,000 acres. Although this company has received mineral water management licenses in this region, it appears that it has taken 19 eyes, cold water, creek beds, waterbeds, pipelines and has seized the area's findings and reports, although it has the right to use one eye in the official report. The weird thing is, there's a rumor that there's going to be a copper mine in this 49,000 acres, because it can't be assigned to an investment in a thermal hotel for the purpose of building such a thermal hotel. It is said that there will be a search of 49,000 acres of copper mines. As a matter of fact, it is known that there are drilling operations that resemble mining, but neither the locals nor the press nor the Sakaryan have been able to find out anything about it. In fact, citizens who have sought to appeal to the administrative court to consider these proceedings held in this area have not been able to obtain this official report from the province for very long and have not been able to open the case. Following the attempts of several heroic citizens of the Sakaryan to lie at the gates of the province, they were only given the report, which had their signatures on it as it was about to expire. So, I sincerely ask: In this age of communication, in this age of civilization, in this age of communication, in this age of age, when no one has been able to explain or explain who any of the partners are, if the thermal hotel is to be built, how the cold water resources have been seized, what the mines are wanted, what the mines are looking for, whether it's hidden from the public because of environmental destruction, or whether it's hidden from the public, in this country, where no one has reached a conclusion. I'm asking you, what really happens here, and if the applications are run under a license, we'd appreciate it if you could shed some light on the issues. Because in Sakarya, and in many parts of Turkey, mountains are being dug up, streams are connected to private property, but people don't know who did it. In particular, I'd like to thank the Minister for your concern.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0092par0163	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "70%" sign in the frame article 9 of the 683 Orders of Mine Law shall be replaced as "60%" and "30%" as "40 percent," which shall be replaced from the article text of the next sentence, with a sentence of "20.000 euros and an administrative fine. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0093par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0092par0173	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0094par0176	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 9th Amendment. I salute you all. Here we are, indeed, discussing a bill that concerns a very important sector of Turkey, which concerns the mining sector. In fact, there is no industry in the world as difficult as the mining industry. It's a really hard sector for an employer, for an employee, for an engineer. So there's probably no other industry called the past after the end of the shift, when the work is legalized, when the work is completed. In our motion, we envisioned reducing the 70 per cent cut from these mining fees to 60 per cent of the overall budget, although the environmental harmonisation guarantee will be increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent. Mr. Secretary, the government and the Commission didn't agree to this motion, but I don't understand why they didn't. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, I have made a motion to the Ministry regarding the tender of the Mining Information Management System, which was made in the General Directorate of Mining Affairs. You responded to this motion. In this motion, there is no answer to my questions remotely, or the information you give as an answer is not accurate. I'm going to present this motion with a review after my speech. Dear lawmakers, the Mining Information Management Information System is a system that envisions monitoring the permit work of the MiGEM, despite some shortcomings in the MiGEM. A while ago, this system was shut down and decided to build a new system, and it is alleged to be the company owned by the son of the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. Since it was not completed during the work period and did not receive fully requested efficiency, officials in the MiGEM are refusing to take over the system. The pressure from politicians and top brass has forced the adoption of the new system and payment to the firm to be accepted by authorities. The firm is being paid $2 million. The old system, the Mining Information Management Information System, is being disabled. But since the system can't be activated as a whole, it locks up after a while and shuts down, the MIGEM can't do anything for two weeks. The old system, the Mining Information Management Information System, is then being reactivated. However, most of the information in the new system is alleged to have been deleted or lost, Mr. Secretary, these are allegations of the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, I've asked questions here, and the most important question of my questions is, Mr. Secretary, in the two weeks this new system hasn't worked, have there been any irregular registration arrangements that haven't been registered before? If so, who do they belong to, and what licenses do they belong to? That's an important question. Again, who was given this tender? I claim the Prime Minister's son was given to his company. And I'm asking the Minister, who was this job for? Mr. Secretary is responding, saying that, as suggested in the proposal, the Mining Information Management Information System is out of the question. This system has been disabled. You know how we know, guys? I continue, from the Minister's writing, Mr. Minister says the version of the information management system has been planned to stop. What does it say up there? It works uninterruptedly, he says. What does it say here, folks, after that? It has been halted with a plan. The planned halt of the old version of software developed by the tender has not affected activities, he says. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you know how much this tender is being tendered, whether or not the Prime Minister's son is being given... This system won't work in two weeks... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... Because of the failure of this system, I'm asking the Minister again who's licensed or who's the victim. The information I received from the General Directorate of Mining Affairs, from the technocrats, from the staff of the office, doesn't confirm the information the Minister has given. The information given to this motion is all false information, Mr. Secretary. If you think you can fool a congressman and a congressman whose profession is a mining engineer with such false information, you can only deceive yourself.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0095par0187	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law bill 683 rows shall be changed into "including city municipalities" in the 6th amendment to Article 13 of Mining Law. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0096par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0095par0197	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0097par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're going to need an explanation for this clause. Because the mining industry is public, the state is public, and the public business is fundamental because it's public, but in your time of power, all the mines -- including the boron -- are thought to be -- have all been privatized, handed over to the private sector. Now, there's a government share here, and I want the Minister to explain on this bench what his government share is, and I want that because it's being given false information to the public. 30 major city municipalities were built, the government's share of coal is paid in redevance to TKI. That's what we know. That's what the law says. If it was paid as Redevans, the tax would be given to the county's private administration; the province's private administration, the governorship, the city's council would assign it to the service of that province. Now, with the councils of this city's municipalities, the city's general legislatures were removed, and the city's municipal councils were replaced. Is this state share, right, in these major cities, the city councils, or not? After the state's private administration, they took over this mission, and that's one. Second: Is there or is there not a right for municipalities to receive a contribution from the mine in the area, starting with a thousand or so? For example, why did the Soma Municipality's contributions to Soma City in the last ten years decline despite the increase in mining? It's interesting, isn't it, the mining industry is improving, the money being transferred to Soma City Hall is running low? That's an interesting subject. Another issue, he said, would be a budget of 70 per cent of the business license price, and 30 per cent will be spent within the framework of the environmental integration plan. Mr. Secretary, I'm telling all of you, including the registration fees, including the application, the business, how much tuition did you receive, as the Department of Energy, I'm asking? How much of this did you spend on the environment, how much of it was used in the environment? This is not what developed countries, Canada, South Africa, America, do. When someone buys a business license and starts running a mine, they deposit guarantees. He will destroy it and dig it, and he will make thousands of tons of rubble, and he will deposit a guarantee that the place will be restored to its former state. When the mining industry is done, when that place isn't restored, when it's not put in the trees, the greening, the vegetation and so on, that's what the guarantee is for. Why is this assurance not taken in Turkey? That's what we're saying. Once again, Mr. Minister's statement about our Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, the request of the state's share to the Metropolitan Municipality would have no state's share in the state. There has been an answer for misunderstanding. We're calling from here: Is there a right or is there not to receive a state share of the city's municipalities, which have been taken over by the state's private administration? They'll make the roads, instead of CYDES, instead of BELDES, they'll be shut down, they'll be serving in the city, shouldn't that money go there? Explain if you have to. If you don't have to, why don't we just ask for an explanation? Unfortunately, the mines have been privatized because of this wild exploitation and the greed for profit. Privatisation has brought subcontractorization, subcontractorization has brought business accidents along with environmental disaster, and because there are no guarantees taken in place of destruction of nature, it says here only from expenses. Notice, under one paragraph, how to arrange the environment for a thousand TL -- a thousand liras -- with a thousand liras? How can 30 percent of this be worth 300 lira, and how can there be an environmental arrangement? I'm waiting for the Minister to explain it here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit03spe0098par0209	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. The commission and the government are in place. There are four motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the 683 Orders of Mine Law shall be changed to the amount of the price of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Attila Kart Sakine Öz Doğan Dawn Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 10 of Law Bill 683, we propose and propose that the public institution's statement, which is included in the Tenth Amendment to the Tenth Amendment in the Tenth Amendment to the Tenth Amendment, be replaced in the form of the public investment and replaced in the same joke, and the sentences added to the same article and Law 3213 in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Caffeci Recep Special Yilmaz Turkish Nusret Bayraktar For public investments under the Act No. 8/6/1994 and under the Act 3996, raw materials are also given to the company in charge of the company's obligation to provide raw materials for the tender agreements and to be used on the subject of the contract and limited to the duration of the project. The amount of raw materials used in this case will be secured by the end of January each year to ensure that they work on the environmental integration plan, at 30% of the cost of the state's right to operate in the same group by the end of June. If the state's rights and guarantees are denied or not invested, $20,000 will be fined administratively and asked to be completed within three months. Otherwise, production will be stopped." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 683th amendment to 6% of the "4%" bill in the fifth joke of Article Number 14 of Mining Law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken İbrahim Ayhan Erol Dora Halil Aksoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Sequential Code and the 10th Amendment to some Laws. We offer and propose that the first and second jokes of the article be changed in the following way. "The second, fourth and fifth jokes of Article 14 of Law 10-3213 have been changed in the following way, adding the following to the 17th joke, following sentences below and following this joke. "In the event the mine is used or sold as raw material, the price of the sale of the mine in the same market is the January price of the sale of the mine as a Tovenan in businesses. The precedent of the sale price of the state's rights from the mines is declared by the General Manager's office, taking into account in the areas of which each mine is separate and applied for the year. The price of sale at the beginning of January cannot be lower than the precedent declared price. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by the ministry's regulations. " a) I. Group (a) bendi by 3% of the scaled and/or washed market sales price specified by the governorship of the mines or by the province's private administration, b) I. The group (b) was 3% of the mines, c) II. The group (a) and (c) bendi are taken from the mines at 3% (except the government's right to the right to the right of state in this substance, except for the amount of raw materials used in construction, dams, ponds, ports.) proportional, ) II. The group (b) bended by 3% of the market price in the mines, based on the properties of natural stone and the area in which it was located, d) III. By 1% of the group's source salts, 3% of the group's other mines, e) IV. The group from the mines include gold, silver, platinum, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, aluminum, and uranium from the mines in the extra-3 table, including radioactive minerals outside uranium oxide and 6% from other radioactive substances, 2% from others. f) V. The group is 3% of the mines, It's taken. The price of the January sale, declared by the owner of the license, is inspected by the Ministry and completed incomplete statements. The state's rights are granted at least as much as the base price per year for mining licenses that are licensed to operate. However, it is not a requirement for the state to be taken in the spring salts. " "However, it is guaranteed by the end of January each year to provide environmental integration plan work by 35% of the state's rights and license licenses in the same group by the end of June, if the tender agreements determine that raw materials will not be met by the public institution and its organisation, which makes the tender. If the state's rights and guarantees are denied or not invested at all, the registration will be fined based on the amount of administrative fine and asked to be completed within three months. Otherwise, production will be stopped. S. Nevzat Unafraid Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Emin Haluk Ayhan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0099par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the 10th Amendment of Law Bill 683, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. Now, the 10th article is an important clause in the bill's state rights. In general, it includes some proportions that predict that the state's rights, which are currently being taken from different mining groups, should be increased by about 50 to 60 per cent. Now, there is no doubt that this bill, which does not solve the serious problems of the mining sector, will include even more serious problems in the sector, which further increases the state's rights by doubling them. Thus, our proposal aims to lower the rate of increase brought down by the bill slightly further, lowering the average rate by 1 per cent in each group to a level of 1.5 times as much as it did before. In addition, large amounts are foreseen, as is the case in general. We propose that a penalty prescribed for 20 thousand liras be replaced by a price on the basis of a license, such as $10,000 today's terms. Again, we suggest that it would be more appropriate for the sector to increase 30 per cent of the estimated value to 35 per cent as a contribution to the integration plan and thus to make an arrangement in favour of the sector. I believe the Supreme Council will consider these assessments. Otherwise, the production of the mining sector with high penalties and high state rights cannot be increased, exports cannot be increased, problems there cannot be solved, lives lost in mining businesses cannot be prevented. So I'm having trouble understanding as a member of the Commission that a proposal to increase money, such as the Finance Minister or the Bookmaster, was really brought by the Ministry of Energy and Resources. Okay, if it comes from the finances, I'll do it. So the first duty of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources is to solve what is the most important problem in this sector, not to increase the state's right to enrich the state's vault. A new problem area is being created with this application. For example, the 4th group of minerals, such as gold, silver, platinum, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, aluminum and uranium, has been indexed to the market values in proportions. Where? The London Stock Exchange averages. The higher the London Stock Exchange, the higher the state rights, the lower the London Stock Exchange, the lower the state rights. Dear MPs, this is the state of the Republic of Turkey. I believe that by the price of the other country's stock market, the right to state is set, which will bring this bill back on the table as soon as possible. Instead, it would be more accurate to base the amount of production and the value of a certain price. We also submitted this to the Ministry, but unfortunately during the commission's work, it was kept in an arrangement that was satisfied only by increasing rates without any changes. We think that should change. Instead of getting more taxes from the multi-producers, more than the many winners, this arrangement will cause new problems in the industry, which predicts that the low-producers and the multi-producers will pay more state rights to the government, depending on the London Stock Exchange. Thus, the proportions of our proposal have been held at a reasonable level, and I expect you to support our proposal, which predicts that more resources will be transferred to work within the framework of the environmental integration plan, so that 30 per cent will be raised to 35 per cent. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0100par0061	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 683th amendment to 6% of the "4%" bill in the fifth joke of Article Number 14 of Mining Law. Halil Aksoy and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0101par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0100par0071	Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0102par0073	Mr. President, the good lawmakers, the mind of the political authorities has never been different from the mind of an entrepreneur who operates in the market. This mind, which perceives every material and spiritual value as a market meta, is one of the reasons for the great catastrophes we face at this point. First, because of the damage done to the KİTESTs, the extortion auction, due to the efficiency and efficiency, was pursued by certain capital groups. However, these public enterprises, founded on the sweat of the workers of this country, could have been transformed into the locations of rights production and division, which worked better, produced better, and worked with a very small unit -- public losses that emerged during the sale. Again, the same logic forced a perception against society, as public enterprises did. But it didn't even occur to him that public enterprises don't have to make a profit because this mind thinks that public enterprises are business, and people are customers. The largest privatisations in the history of the Republic were also the most illegal markets in the history of the Republic. This is the mind that continues to officially pursue our mines, which are described as a right in the Constitution today, at the cost of violating the Constitution for energy needs, efficiency and so on. The mines were your people, but they were your people's only place to die. The resources were all of our people's, but only to eliminate the environment, the habitats, the labor, and condemn them to a life of slavery. Now, at the point where we're here, not only among the social groups, but also among the capital groups, all of the mines are being discriminated against. That's what they say after hundreds of miners who lost their lives. Let's remember, the Prime Minister of the period, after the mining accidents in 2010, "Destiny is in its nature." he said. Against further criticism, he said: "Those who accept police work or military professions are considered to have accepted the witness in the first place, as well as the nature of the work. My brothers and sisters who work at the mine earn their bread under thousands of feet of ground. There are mining accidents in the most advanced countries in the world. If this place was in the hands of the government and not the subcontractor, it would be a mistake to say that it would not have been an accident. We have only one thought and goal, which is the peace and trust of our nation. Former Labour Minister Mr. Omar Dinçer said similar things: "The shock caused by the explosion damaged the gallery and the elevator. The underground destruction has also affected their rescue efforts. Rescue teams have done rescue efforts in Karadon at great risk. There was nothing in our first 19-20 corpse, they died well -- whatever that means -- I can safely say that they didn't suffer about it and that they died well in physics. There's no way to understand what it was like to die beautiful. Again, the TEPAV report on business accidents in the mines shows that the prime minister is trying to make it look like natural death, and there are such accidents happening in the developed countries of the world, and the approach is completely counterintuitive and counterintuitive. Most of Turkey's coal needs are covered by lignite coals, but that's where the biggest mining accidents occur. Again, the least produced stone coal is an area where the most deaths or massacres occur in the world. In order to prevent this, measures must be taken, and as measures delay, death will increase. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0103par0081	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 10 of Law Bill 683, we propose and propose that the public institution's statement, which is included in the Tenth Amendment to the Tenth Amendment in the Tenth Amendment to the Tenth Amendment, be replaced in the form of the public investment and replaced in the same joke, and the sentences added to the same article and Law 3213 in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends For public investments under the Act No. 8/6/1994 and under the Act 3996, raw materials are also given to the company in charge of the company's obligation to provide raw materials for the tender agreements and to be used on the subject of the contract and limited to the duration of the project. The amount of raw materials used in this case will be secured by the end of January each year to ensure that they work on the environmental integration plan, at 30% of the cost of the state's right to operate in the same group by the end of June. If the state's rights and guarantees are denied or not invested, $20,000 will be fined administratively and asked to be completed within three months. Otherwise, production will be stopped." Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TECHLOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0104par0090	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0103par0091	I'm having it read. Projects of the Adjectives (YID) are very important public investments without public resources. The agreements on these investments can sometimes be management-side investors, and sometimes business institutions. If the contract side manages are investors, the permit for supply of raw materials is taken by public agencies. However, the contract side is left to the companies in charge of the production of raw materials if management is a business. In the event that the provision of raw materials is left to the company in charge, the production permit is intended to be granted to the company in charge, since the difficulties with supply are an obstacle to the implementation of projects. In addition, the scope of the current arrangement covering all tenders is limited to the SID projects under Law 3996. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Members of parliament, since this amendment motion has also been proposed to add the 14th Article of Law 3213 to its 17th joke, the possibility of processing the next motion, which I mentioned in the next statement, including a change of notice, has been eliminated. In that case, I submit the clause to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "two months" in the framework of Article 11 shall be changed to "three months" in the current 683 Orders of Mine Code 3213. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of law bill number 683 in the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the city is changed by the municipalities and governorships in other provinces, which are the districts of the districts of the districts of the city. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0105par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0103par0116	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0106par0118	Mr. Secretary, when it comes to local governments and the capital city, I always laugh when I ask for a word. The city is divided into the municipality because we asked for a share. What you didn't say is that they want separate rights. The state's private administrations were given a government share, weren't they? It's being given. Has the state's private administration been lifted in major cities and replaced by city councils? He's here. That's where you're going to give it, isn't it? There's no other way. So the city councils took that job. After that, the town hall is responsible for the roads, drinking water, mosque, school, everything. Now, the fundamental problem here is that when there are these debates about the mine in the world, the right to state... the municipality is the state, the public institution, the election. The difference is: Central governments get appointed, and local elections have elections, and they have parliaments. Now, the AK PARTY's got it, so I'm going to bring the presidential system. Well, bring my brother, 50 states like in America, in Turkey. No one's stopping you. The regional parliaments, no one's stopping you again. Germany has 17 states, Italy has one, Spain has one, Belgium has one, England has one, all developed countries have one. They have a right to what is called a state share. So if the mine's coming out somewhere, it's got to leave a income where that mine comes out. If you don't regulate that income fairly, a foreign company that comes from the outside will plunder, plunder, plunder, destroy the water, river, river, forest, and then mine the money, put the money in its pocket, leave you a contaminated environment, an unhealthy environment, and then you'll say, "Oh, let's go like this." This is not the case; for Erzurum is also a rebel in Tortumu, and in Bergama is a raiser of Izmirli, and in Çanırlı, and in Muğlah, and in Antalya, they lift him up. Now, while that's already the case, you need to find a balance, the people who run it as a state need to set a balance. So it's not a damage to where that mine came from, it's a benefit. Isn't that what the mine's for? That's what it's for. That mine needs to guarantee the environment arrangement, and it needs to be opened to the people who live there. If you don't apply this law like Canada, Africa, South Africa, or even China, as in many countries, all over Turkey is a fight; if you don't do it, it's in the rivers in the President's Rize, it's in Tripoli, it's in Munzur, it's in Hasankeyf, it's everywhere. So you're going to balance that, and you're going to name the state's share, and you're going to admit that the local government of the state, which comes with the election, is the public administration. These public governments can also create economic enterprises, they can produce oil, they can mine, they can regulate, they can offer public service. Well, let's be clear here, when I say government share, I mean public... The People's Democratic Party will take the public's goods, the people's goods, the people's goods, and all the foreign companies you've given away if they cross the threshold and become in power in these elections, and I'll tell you straight from here, it's that simple. The property of the people will be the property of the people, and it will be for the benefit of the people, and he will have the benefit of the people. Not like that, bring the British company to the nickel mine at Turgutlu, where they poison the entire Gediz Plain, where only the British company will profit, where the people will die. That's not true. From now on, we say the people will take care of their rights. The state share, the capital city is the state, the government's public representative, it's elected, it'll take over.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0107par0124	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "two months" in the framework of Article 11 shall be changed to "three months" in the current 683 Orders of Mine Code 3213. Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMITOR Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0108par0133	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0107par0134	Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0109par0135	Mr. President, I'd like to thank you in particular for accepting our motion. Then we'll change the subject a little bit. The AKP's years began in 2002, and we came to 2015, and I look at it this way, and we make laws all the time, and we make laws all the time. We're changing the Work Law, we're changing the MIT Law, we're changing the Social Security Law, we're making a bag of laws, we're entering the commission with 50 articles, 150 points, but there's no law that makes our poor people happy from top to bottom, so it's for the benefit of our poor people. Again, you've brought in a mining law today, in the mining law, where you're trying to reward the employer, where you're going to answer to the employers. Again, it's a shame that the Soma Commission has established the Soma Commission, with the votes of four parties here, unfortunately the Commission of Soma, who passed this law, can't find it, can't get it, can't evaluate it. And you mock the souls of 301 dead workers? Are you mocking the families of 301 workers? Again, a continuous perception operation, a continuous perception operation. You're saying that because we've improved the working conditions of the miners, is there such a thing in this law? 2,831 workers are still seeking severance pay. We have a small mine in Çorum Dodurga, over 117. The workers were left outside the door. An important part of them are trying to make a living on unemployment money, some of them are pursuing seniority and reporting compensations, while others are trying to work in above-ground mining for much less wage. Again, the government has a control authority. You took control of the government, you gave it to the private sector. The years of the AKP have been -- twelve years -- will end in June 2015. Look, dear friends, what your laws are doing in Turkey: one of the most intense years in Turkey is depression, depression, economic crisis, 2008. This year, in 2008, the use of antidepression drugs was 17 million, while in 2013, the number increased to 26 million, nearly one-third. 12.1 per cent of the people living in this country in 2003 felt very happy, while in 2013 the figure fell to 8 per cent. What have you done with your laws? So making a lot of laws doesn't help. What did you do? You've corrupted society's mental health, brought our country back to an unhappy people's country. Do you have any idea what our divorce rates are like in our unhappy people's country back home? You know, when we were old enough to get married and have a lot of kids? Remember when we had a government elder who said, "They're drying us out with the betrayal of birth control." He said, "Why don't you have a lot of kids and get 2,800 of them thrown out of the house and let them die in Soma, so that they can die in Ermenek?" Now, an early marriage with lots of children... Look, my dear friends, do you know that one out of every five marriages ends in divorce, between 2002 and 2015, and that the ratio between men and women is one third of those marriages that ended in divorce -- the same amount of cheating? For reasons of divorce, 31 percent in women, 34 percent in men, divorce is due to infidelity. Dear friends, again, over 25,000 of our people have committed suicide in the last ten years. Even worse, one quarter of the people who committed suicide were between 15 and 24 years old. So one fourth of them committed suicide in the years when they were most happy, most hopeful. Again, in our country over the past 12 years, crime like extortion, extortion, extortion, sexual harassment has doubled. Drug use has peaked in the last 12 years. Bonzai was sold in elementary schools' gardens, in elementary schools' garden walls. Violence... violence has surrounded every aspect of our lives. Everyone's trying to get their own rights now. In particular, violence against women, Mr. Group Vice President, violence against women has increased by 1,400 percent in this period. Society's polarized, society's tensed, society's unhappy. Making laws isn't enough. Society has become unhappy. The situation we're facing is a massive social collapse created entirely by the power hand. Unhappy, unemployed, more divorced, dying in business accidents, going to prison, worrying about the future. This painting... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is it appropriate for our country with 2,000 years of history? I'm asking you if it suits you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0110par0152	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0111par0154	It's been made.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0110par0155	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0112par0156	We were going to accept the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0110par0157	On the 12th article...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0113par0158	The motion was not accepted?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0114par0159	Mr. President, the proposal has been accepted. It will be.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0115par0160	Mr. President, we accept the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0116par0161	Mr. President, the clause has been accepted by the motion. We agreed.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0117par0162	Sustained motion. Don't make a mistake.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0115par0163	The deputy has spoken in violation of the rules. Mr. President, we agree.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0118par0164	There are three motions on the 12th article: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0119par0166	That didn't happen, you have to fix it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0120par0167	Mr. President, the record...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0118par0168	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0120par0169	Mr. President, look, it's true that a friend's warning is not accepted. However, it was expressed by the AKP Group, where the proposal was accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0121par0170	The minister agreed.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0122par0171	Yes, the Minister agreed, they all agreed.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0120par0172	So correct him, let the record show...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0123par0173	There's been a lack of attention.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0124par0174	Mr. Gök, the General Assembly has refused. The government has agreed, yes, I have no objection. I said, those who accept the proposal and those who do not accept it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0125par0175	We agreed. He says, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0126par0176	We agreed. Everyone says so.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0127par0177	Sir, that was the vote then, wasn't it?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0128par0178	Yeah, I'm just saying, based on the results of the vote. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the introduction of the 683-tier bill, which shall be added by ore search or operators, under the declaration "or the responsibility of a geology engineer" in the fifth paragraph of Article 17 of Mining Law. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 12th Amendment to certain Laws. We offer and propose that the terms of "$30,000" mentioned in the article be changed to "$20,000." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendment to the 683 Order 3213 Mining Law, which is currently in session, will be replaced as "the cost of the goods base" in the first and second jokes of Articles 12 and 17 different articles of Articles 1 and 2 as "the cost of searching and operating contractors" in its second joke, "except for a number of reasons and unexpected circumstances," which has been established in its fourth statement, "the responsibility of the search and the last amount of the device" or "in which has been added to the last amount of jokes" and "in this period." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0129par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0128par0204	Speaking on the motion, Celal Dinçer, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0130par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 12 of the Law Bill, which has changed the Law of Mines, number 683. I salute your high council. Many of the materials we're talking about in this bill contain provisions that will negatively affect mining. This bill will end the country's mining and will not solve their problems. The mining engineer and the worker will narrow down their employment, bring investments to a standstill. In short, if the bill is passed, it will be the end of the country's mining. The bill is in the form of a criminal bill, dear friends. With this clause of the bill I'm talking about, administrative fines are being issued during the search period. The search period is flooded with red tape and turned into a swamp. Every term is expected to spend a certain amount of money. In no country in the world, spending money and searching have been legally linked. Anyway, there's no logical explanation for this relationship. Instead of looking at the amount of money spent, the government needs to see if there is an economic ore reserve at the end of the search. The amendment to the Mining Law, Law 5995, was the first step towards the end of mining in our country. The power is now taking another step, and mining is being completely terminated. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, in 2014, the mining sector had suffered two serious business accidents in our country, killing nearly 325 workers. The cause of business accidents appears to be due to the fact that the most important problem was that the state did not perform the right to supervise. In particular, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has tried to search for criminals as if they had failed to perform their primary task of overseeing the mines, as if they were not responsible for the business accidents. The most important proof of this is that the bill and the audit work are to be handed over to the authorities. While the ministry is supposed to put its own responsibility on the table and solve problems, it has prepared this bill as revenge on the mining industry and the mining engineers and has created a phenomenon in public where the draft is designed to solve business security, business health issues, but in reality, that's not the case at all. These regulations are problematic for the following reasons: The bill envisions administrative fines, rather than financial fines based on guarantees, in the current law. In view of the financial size of the fines, it is not possible to accept them. The bill has administrative fines ranged from about $20,000 to $50,000. Each year, the bill demands a price that is not based on any legal basis under the guise of the state of the search and business period. The fact that any economic activity in our country requires taxing revenues, but the bill and state rights accounts are left entirely to the pleasure of the administration. The license extensions have been left to the political initiative of the adult. The rules of these processes must be set. There's no such arrangement in the bill. It is not right to ask for a high price in registration times. Redevancing. Penalties are now being reduced to four zeroes. The collateral is converted to a registration fee. The license transfer is left to the minister's authority so that he can get custody. Companies who have received a tender from the state are trying to be protected by this bill. "Technical oversight" has been removed as a result of efforts by the General Directorate of Mines, which has been registered in the Soma and Ermenek catastrophes, as a result of their efforts to place this responsibility on mining engineers, and the mining engineers are sacrificed to those authorized by the employer by implementing the "permanent detention book." The bill holds the June general and custody that suspends the law, which includes an arrangement for capital change in the mining sector. Mining must be carried out in accordance with the universal principles of the law; the ministry of mining must be established; the mining law must be established; the CENTER must be established and have sufficient and competent staffs! The political power, which meets the demands of capital at every turn, must listen to the voice of science and engineers for the benefit of our country and our people. Again, I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0131par0229	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 12th Amendment to certain Laws. We offer and propose that the terms of "$30,000" mentioned in the article be changed to "$20,000." S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0132par0238	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0131par0239	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0133par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. Dear lawmakers, in the last week, I gave a speech from the podium to address the distress of tens of thousands of subcontractors. The theme of the talk was this, as a reminder: In the 24th term, a bag of laws of our Parliament had been passed, adding 8th article to the public tender law. With this clause, they were asked to cease the employment of the staff taken from subcontractors and to be sent to clean jobs, but to facilitate the work of public institutions, it was still necessary to establish standards, but it was not adopted, and it was expired on January 11th, dear friends. I'll do a number of institutions that can't wait for this regulation to come out, or to be removed, or I'll be in a difficult position, and the executives of the institution, who are acting on anxiety, have put that clause of the law into practice -- why and what criteria are they based on, even though there is no application regulation. Tens of thousands of people in Turkey are now suffering this loss, trying to get us, all of you, all of us through their troubles. On Thursday, I called Mr. Faruk Çelik Sir. Thank you, he's returned our call. When we told him about this sensitivity, he sincerely referred to the rightness of these concerns and concerns, stating that the regulations that must be adopted by January 11 were not removed due to the lack of time. He also said he would mention it at the Council of Ministers last Monday. So I told him that the administrations must be instructed until this regulation has been issued so that this community, which is now fully awake, can be calmed down and persuaded and stimulated by subcontractors and subcontractors, and Mr. Steel has stated that he will send it to the relevant authorities. So far, so good. The opposition did its duty, informed the government, and the government said it would do its due. It's beautiful. I thank him again. But, my dear friends, then there was a silence in the government's wing, and an inertia took over. Dear friends, look, I'm sure this problem is happening all over the provinces, and if it doesn't, don't worry, it'll be back to you in a few days. Come, support this matter, which I have expressed for the second time on this stand, and warn the government to be executed immediately. Friends, the answer to this is this: these friends who work in offices, they do the same work for years, they specialize in it. Their withdrawal from offices will create serious gaps in the administration and the relevant public service. It would be appropriate for subcontractors to be given a staff before this is given and to end the tyranny of subcontractors. The fact that these individuals are forced to resign as they go to the elections is expressed in some circles where they will be evacuated and where AKP agencies will recruit them. We're following these allegations, and we're gonna follow them to the end. We don't find the government's inertia to be very good at this. I think we're saying that the source of this inertia is also a sign that these claims are true. Come and get us wrong, dear friends, please accept our solutions to the problems of subcontractors. Let's thank Mr. Secretary here as a government member who's worked out a solution to this problem tomorrow, just as we're criticizing it today. The important thing is to solve the problem. He's in a lot of trouble right now, waiting for the decisions of our Parliament, our Ministry, these friends, there's no real order left in their homes. We'll all be face-to-face with our friends when we get to the polls tomorrow. So, tomorrow, we're up high, so we can go with our foreheads open, and here's what we're offering you as the nationalist movement party. As soon as they're on the staff... Bring this Parliament out in an hour, and hopefully, if you can't do that, get the regulations out as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0134par0247	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the introduction of the 683-tier bill, which shall be added by ore search or operators, under the declaration "or the responsibility of a geology engineer" in the fifth paragraph of Article 17 of Mining Law. Erol Dora (Mardin) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0135par0255	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0134par0256	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0136par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of Mining Law number 683 and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. In a country proud of being the world's 17th largest economy, the standardization of mining disasters as accidents and phytrates normalises the ongoing slaughter of workers in Turkey. These disasters cannot be described as an occupational accident, because in order for it to be an occupational accident, measures on business health and safety were to be taken in full use of all technological facilities at that workplace, but an unpredictably unpredictable situation would have led to an accident. However, the situation is that workers are sent to die in plain sight to reduce the cost in recent mining accidents in Turkey. For example, in the Soma massacre, the discovery that the methane content in the Soma basin would increase depending on the increased depth of the new areas, due to the fact that the charred vein was influenza and fire-appropriate character, and that production without proper solutions could have led to a disaster earlier in the Turkish Engineers and Architectures Association's Business Accidents Report. The most important lignite basin in our country, Soma. It has been determined that coal has high amounts of methane content in its new working areas, depending on the increase in depth. Mistakes here are never acceptable. The production must not begin here until all the research is done and the methane drain is done. Due to the thickness of the coal vein and the lack of methane in the basin until today, production without experience could lead to a new disaster. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers had recently made a statement in the General Assembly saying that only thermal power plants around Şırnak, Silopi and the surrounding area had a business license. I'd like to bring a specific situation before the General Assembly. The village of Kösreli in Şırnak is called Hassane village... Although I was a village born in that village, and it was a village on the foothills of Cudi, it was forced to evacuate by the state in 1993, although it was a very important village. All residents have now had to migrate to different countries of Europe -- a few families, with exceptions. But recently, Mr. President, our concerned ministers have always, at work, made a statement that our citizens who have emigrated to Europe can return to their homes. But once in a while, when I go to Silopi, of course, Mr. Hasip Kaplan makes some really big efforts in these matters, and he knows what's going on. Right now, all of our village's properties have been routed and destroyed. Mr. Minister says that no firm, no company, no business, no business, no business, no business license, but coal has been brought from all sides, and the entire creek bed has been dried, and the property of our people in Europe has been violated. It's impossible to accept. We all need to think that, of course, coal will be removed, but what's important is that we believe that ecological balance needs to be maintained. Those mountains, that habitat, are all of us, so we believe that all of our MPs should be responsible in that sense. I'd like to address the Minister from here as well. They said so themselves, let's go there together. We're always ready. Please, I believe you'll be able to get a technical team in on this, and if you have a report or if you have time, you can go to the area and see the damage there. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0137par0265	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the phrase "or by the mine search or by the operators" to come after the declaration "incumbent on the mine engineer" of the 683-level bill, "with at least one geology engineer in it" in the second verse of Article 24 of the Mining Act. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 13th Amendment to certain Laws. We propose and propose that the 5th and sixth jokes of the article be changed in the following way. "Agreement 7 states that you will be allowed to operate as soon as necessary permits are received. As of the day this permit is granted, the state will be granted its rights. According to the permit, the decision to assess environmental impact, which must be adopted according to Article 7 in three years from the date of the establishment license, shall be issued to the General Manager for which permissions for property permits, opening of a business and working license are processed into the records of the General Directorate. During its term, administrative fines are fined per year for non-compliance licenses. The license can be extended for three years if it cannot be granted a business permit due to the permits specified in this joke until the end of its license. In five years, license holders who don't produce for more than three years are fined for administrative fines based on the price of a license, except for reasons and unexpected circumstances. This sentence is carried out if total production over this three-year period is less than 10% of the annual output reported in the project. The permit will be revoked if the verb against this joke is redetected, starting with the application of the administrative fine. However, in the business project, an administrative fine is not imposed and no registration is cancelled if the gallery, well and defamation of activities in the licensing area has been declared within three years to reach the mine from the date of the operation. " Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of Mine Law to be changed to the second amendment of Article 13 in the framework Article 13 in the second joke, "20.000 TL" has been changed to "the cost of the state base," and "if the other group is in the mines" in the third joke, the term "elli years" will not be changed as "the sixth year" after the second sentence of the different eleventh joke, "in which the owner of the license has not been applied to its administration in this period, however, it has not been executed by administrative fines." We propose and propose that the addition of the expression should be changed into "$50,000" in the 11th and 12th jokes. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0138par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0137par0293	Mehmet Ali Sesam, MP of İzmir demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0139par0295	Mr. President, with this motion, we say, we say that the search for mines of this country is important for the development of mining in Turkey, where the rights of the entrepreneur are given and the rights of the license is more permanent. In this sense, we've always said in this law that giving out mining licenses and encouraging the search for mines should be fundamental, but look, for some reason, the search license in Turkey should be greater than the business license. This is a fundamental feature of not being encouraged by a difficult job, such as searching in Turkey. There are various reasons for that. One is that the Turkish mining sector in 2012 was compressed between the Prime Minister's General and the Prime Minister's two lips. We're negotiating this law, and we still haven't got the clear answer here: will the Prime Minister's Generalge be lifted or not? It's the Ministry of Mining and the powers we've given him, but it's the Prime Minister's Department that's outstripped all these powers. How will this contradiction be resolved? The answer to that is that the general council is considering this law, and the miner is waiting, and so are we. The second issue is that a lot of these companies have been troubled by the mentioned bag of laws, some of which have been shut down and some of which have been found unemployed. The wages of unemployed miners are not paid. The firms don't pay for these people. These workers don't have the power to take it legally, nor do they have the ability to deal with the problems of these people who are already in pain, so we made a promise here that we'd put a clause in this law. Let the government pay for it, collect it from the firms. It's that simple, let's do it. At this point, they're not very large numbers, so with numbers like $100-200 million, it's a situation where workers in all of Turkey can at least take their wages and relax. Let's do this. In the same way, in this law, we find that the government takes over the burdens of corporations who have taken on redevans from the government with the bag of laws, but how will the government contribute to the burdens that are coming on your friends in the market, in the private sector? I'm not taking any steps on these things. There's one other thing that's very important in this industry: that the mining engineers, geology engineers, geophysicists, really, have become more of an engineer in a company than they've ever been able to use their own licenses with a licensed corporate personality. Let's see, that's not true, that's against the Constitution. In this case, this law will be passed, but this clause will be returned from the Constitutional Court, and I'm making it very clear. At this point, I also saw in law talks that the Ministry, Turkish Engineers and Architecture Chambers are cross-eyed for some reason. Let's not forget that as a professional organisation, as an academic professional organisation, this institution has one of the most important institutions to speak of in these laws. This is an environment in which years-old engineering science's savings of engineers in this sector, especially in these laws, should be taken into account, they should be valued, but we have seen that the Turkish Engineering and Architecture Rooms are increasingly stripped of their powers, and their words are not heard. I say to all the public and my fellow congressmen in Congress, that democracy can be improved by the reflection of the opinion and the legal regulations of civil society organisations and public institutional scientific professional rooms; a democratic law, democratic arrangement, that can only happen. For this, the rights of authorized corporate personalities and engineers must be protected. We need to solve these in this law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0140par0303	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 13th Amendment to certain Laws. We propose and propose that the 5th and sixth jokes of the article be changed in the following way. "Agreement 7 states that you will be allowed to operate as soon as necessary permits are received. As of the day this permit is granted, the state will be granted its rights. According to the permit, the decision to assess environmental impact, which must be adopted according to Article 7 in three years from the date of the establishment license, shall be issued to the General Manager for which permissions for property permits, opening of a business and working license are processed into the records of the General Directorate. During its term, administrative fines are fined per year for non-compliance licenses. The license can be extended for three years if it cannot be granted a business permit due to the permits specified in this joke until the end of its license. In five years, license holders who don't produce for more than three years are fined for administrative fines based on the price of a license, except for reasons and unexpected circumstances. This sentence is carried out if total production over this three-year period is less than 10% of the annual output reported in the project. The permit will be revoked if the verb against this joke is redetected, starting with the application of the administrative fine. However, in the business project, an administrative fine will not be imposed and registration is not cancelled if the gallery, well and defamation of activities in the licensing area has been declared within three years to reach the mine from the date of the operation." Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0141par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0140par0315	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0142par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are some things I've been missing from this conversation earlier, and I'd like to share them with you in particular. Now, usually when we say this Mining Act, we need to talk about minerals, investments, economics, people, jobs. However, it became so that today we remember not the coal, but the disaster in Soma, the death of Soma, as we called it, but not the coal mines in Ermenek, and not the coal mines in Ermenek, but Uncle Recep's five-dollar tear tires, which, in a sense, we remember today -- as we said -- 600 unemployed workers from the Mastra operation. Now, I want to make this especially clear: elephants kick, grass gets crushed. So, if you're dealing with people in political accounts, and you're not thinking about people's bread, their vaccine, you're making a big mistake, and you're in a non-human approach. Look, there's something very clear. Now, the Mastra business has applied to you on 24/4/2014 for permission to buy and use explosives that have already been renewed. However, this application was not deliberately renewed, nor was there even a positive or negative answer. Now, during that time, other mining companies operating in the Silver House have no problems with their licenses, and they're doing it well. However, Koza's licenses are in trouble, and the license is stubbornly suspended and not granted. The mining license expired on 10/6/2010; there is ore to be produced; the facility is in the center, waiting a year and a half for an extension by the General Directorate of Mines, how long will it wait? If you refuse, refuse. If this is necessary and necessary, give me this. What are you waiting for? Now, there are some permits that are expected, and I'd like to share them with you. For example, there was a request for a permit to operate in the open and underground, applied in April 2012, not given positive or negative information. I'll clean it up, I'll break it down, I'll break it down a little bit. Is that what the economy is? Is that what this is? Is that what red tape is? A forest permit was asked to build a waste dam, applied in October 2012, rejected in March 2014, the company submitted to the court, and the administration court ruled in favour last week. Expecting results. The application for CED revision was applied for in April 2014 for a new waste dam that could not be approved because the forest permit was not granted, and the application for CED renovation is still pending. A warrant for purchase and use of explosives was issued in March 2014, without a positive or negative return, a lawsuit has been filed in the administration court, and the results are expected. The mining license expires in June 2014. There was a request for an extension in 2012, and it's still waiting in the MiGIM. What kind of MIGEM is it, what kind of Ministry of Energy, what kind of waiting is it, what logic is it to act on, it's impossible to understand. On the other hand, even though the same company, the other businesses of this company, had some anticipated permits, they also took permission and began their activities. As of today, the only non-functional business of this company is this Mastra operation in the Silver House. On the other hand, Minister, when you look at the forest in this Burdur, especially in the forest, it's all over the forest that's seriously bald. Go to the Karaman area. I saw it when I went there because I was a teacher, and I was embarrassed. You gave it to the Chinese, and everything that was done when it was supposed to be planted as a result of the operation. One of them stepped there, opened up a huge space between the green, opened up a huge space somewhere else, and it was an incredibly bad image, environmental destruction... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and it's also a human disaster. You have to get your hands on these. You have to follow your responsibilities at the company. After the mine comes out, he needs to make the environmental arrangements to restore it to its original state. I remind you of that, too. In particular, I expect the answer to this mining operation in the Silver House. Don't oppress people, within the framework of the law...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0143par0333	Yes, Mr. Janicire...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0142par0334	Let's give it to those who deserve it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0143par0337	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the phrase "or by the mine search or by the operators" to come after the declaration "incumbent on the mine engineer" of the 683-level bill, "with at least one geology engineer in it" in the second verse of Article 24 of the Mining Act. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0144par0346	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0143par0347	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0145par0349	Mr. President, friends, we're really working on this, we're preparing a motion, it's read here, believe me, hands are coming down, they're getting up without anyone noticing. From the moment you give a business health and safety business license, there is a serious standard in mines in the world, so if you maintain that standard, you will ensure job safety and control. What do we say? The mining engineer will be, of course, in charge, but the geology engineer has to be. Why do you need a geology engineer? There are many reasons for that, my friends. Now, if you don't know the basic geological data, it will flood like Ermenek. Again, the reserve for the ore, the tenor, the dispersal information, as well as the fault fractures in the minefield, the fractures, the rocks, the behavior of units, the resilience parameters, the field's underground water, hydrogeology, geological elements, the business project, the technical guidance, the concepts that prevent life and economic loss, all of which are the geology engineers. Now, the mismanagement between closed businesses and open businesses, the subterranean flooding, the internal combustion, is a technical problem that comes up again. Now, Afşin, Soma, Ermenek, Şırnak, Adana, Zonguldak mine accidents all happened because they didn't predict these geological risks. Now, what we're saying from here is that you complete this deficit in terms of occupational health and safety, so that's our concrete proposal. You're saying you can't go straight to a healthy conclusion unless geological parameters are followed during the operation of mineral resources that have been produced by millions of years of geological processes. Believe me, I spent four years in a house with geology students. They collected and brought all the fossils, they pronounced those parameters every day, and I learned from them. I was the only lawyer among them, but it turns out that among all the mining businesses, unfortunately, geology engineers weren't given enough jobs, they weren't assigned, they weren't authorized, they weren't. I've already asked at a large privatized mining company when we were working as a parliamentary research commission, 1,300 workers were working, there was no union. I asked him about the geology engineer, and he wasn't there. I mean, it's a bad situation. The Ministry actually knows that very well. They might be able to guess what privatized large mining companies I'm talking about right now, their holdings. Sensitivity is necessary for all of you, necessary for everyone, necessary for Turkey. Dear friends, at this time, the eyes of the world's press are now on a hostage surrender in Akchakale district of Urbana. Japanese Kenji Goto and Sacide al-Rishavi... who are said to be the caliph's brother. There's a surrender over the khachale and a Jordanian incident. The whole world's press is here. I wish my friends would do a flash check. The surrender of the Musul consulate was also in Akchakale. There's ISIS on the other side. There's ISIS on the other side of Akchakale, Turkey on this side. Now I'm asking, isn't there some sort of motive involved? Why from Turkey, why this point? I want to stress that the government is really wrong about these things. Of course, we will make an effort to save people's lives, but an image of the level of cooperation is extremely dangerous and will put Turkey in a difficult position in the international arena. I'd like to express that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0146par0354	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "$50,000" mentioned in the 5th and 6th jokes of Article 14 of the current Section 3283 Mining Law shall be changed to "the cost of the spiritual base." Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 14th Amendment to certain Laws. Article 1, 4. And 5. We offer and propose that your jokes be changed in the following way. Article 29 of the Law No. 14 - 3213 has been changed in the following way. "MEDDE 29-Business is carried out according to its project and its relevant provisions. The license holder will be granted up to six months to perform the project's appropriate operation if it is detected that the operation is in violation of the business project. At the end of this period, if the project is not implemented, the production will be halted by a fine of $30,000 in administrative fines. However, production activities will be halted until the dangerous situation is resolved if it is determined that anti-project activities are dangerous in terms of business. The owner of the permit is obliged to submit the search information to the General Manager, if he made a search of technical documents for business operations, the business report and the business field by the end of April each year. If the obligation is not met, the permit will be fined for the amount of the base price. Production activity will be halted until the obligation is fulfilled. 1. The group (a) has a permit for the mines, and is obliged to submit its business action report on business operations during the previous year by the end of January, to governorships in the cities of the capital city, to the special administration in other provinces. If this obligation is not fulfilled, the permit will be fined for the amount of the base price. Production activity will be halted until the obligation is fulfilled. D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Emin Haluk Ayhan Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current law bill number 683 must be submitted to the General Manager in its third joke in Article 29 of Mining Law 3213. "It is necessary to submit it to the approval of the General Directorate." To be changed into form; to be added after the phrase "General Manager" in the fourth joke, " we propose and propose that the eighth joke be removed from the draft text. Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0147par0383	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0148par0384	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0146par0385	I'm reading the reason: The introduction of business projects and changes to the General Manager's office alone before it is implemented and no responsibility to the General Manager on this issue will cause considerable problems. If political and bureaucratic structure is considered to be the first degree of dealing with problems and responsibilities, it is necessary for them to actively participate in and take responsibility. It is intended to limit practices that will destroy ecological life, particularly fossil fuels, by resolving these problems and spreading the mining areas. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Orders of the Common Law and the 14th Amendment to certain Laws. Article 1, 4. And 5. We offer and propose that your jokes be changed in the following way. Article 29 of the Law No. 14 - 3213 has been changed in the following way. "MEDDE 29-Business is carried out according to its project and its relevant provisions. The license holder will be granted up to six months to perform the project's appropriate activities if it is determined to be in violation of the business project. At the end of this period, production will be halted by a fine of $30,000 in administrative fines if the project is not implemented properly. However, production activities will be halted until the dangerous situation is resolved as long as it is determined that anti-project activities are dangerous for business. The owner of the permit is obliged to submit the search information to the General Manager, if he made a search of technical documents for business operations, the business report and the business field by the end of April each year. An administrative fine is fined on the basis of the registration price if the obligation is not met. Production activity will be halted until the obligation is fulfilled. I. The group (a) has a permit for the mines, and is obliged to submit its business action report on business operations during the previous year by the end of January, to governorships in the cities of the capital city, to the special administration in other provinces. If this obligation is not met, an administrative fine is fined on the basis of the registration. Production activity will be halted until the obligation is fulfilled. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0149par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0146par0401	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0150par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 14 of Law Bill 683. On this occasion, once again, I salute you all. This motion aims to reduce the 14th article, which regulates business operations to reasonable punishments. In short, the business location in the bill is intended to be reduced to a reasonable amount of $50,000, such as 30,000 euros, if it is operating in a non-project activity. In the same way, if the license holder does not submit his report on previous year's activities to the general directorate by the end of April, we recommend a fine of $30,000; we recommend that it be reduced to $10,000, which is the price of registration. Also, I. For the mines, the group (a) also aims to reduce its report on its activities by the end of January each year if it does not deliver to the province's private administrations or city municipalities during the previous year, to another 30,000 euro fines, which is the price of registration. Now, there's no point in putting the operations of a business that's already in trouble by providing a fine of $30,000 -- most of which are small and medium -- to a company that can't get its report to the authorities for any reason -- as of the end of December. We say these fines are high, so they will cause new problems in the sector. For this, punishments should be reduced to a reasonable level. That's what we're proposing. I hope you valuable lawmakers make this assessment. Mr. Secretary, I would like to take this opportunity to mention a few things to you on behalf of our citizens, especially the victims. The first is that many of our citizens who have been laid off by accident and are still unemployed -- a significant part of them who have left my knowledge, have worked there, have returned to our province -- their compensation has not been paid; both parents and their spouses and children are begging for compensation by begging. Yesterday and today, many of our fellow lawmakers brought it up. Please, if you have any authority in this matter, use it here, and here it is my job to solve the victims of the community. Call it the Ministry, put your weight on it. Another issue: A large part of workers who have been laid off after the privatisation of Seyitömer Liniyets and still work with subcontractors are both employed and charged for at least ten hours a day. That's what I'm telling you today, knowing that I'm in charge of giving you the solution to this problem that a few of our citizens have delivered today. Give me a hand here, please. We had serious discussions about this together, but now at the center of Kütahya, many of the Cletahian workers at Seyitömer Liniyets became unemployed. It's almost like a social war with workers from Southeast and other provinces. I'd like to point out that in order for this not to go off, you have to be involved. Job applications have been made for 299 workers who will soon be admitted to the Garp Lines Administration. Unfortunately, these include complaints about workers from other counties who came and applied for a fake residence certificate, and, by the way, they're all on the interview list. I'm announcing this from here. In this land, we must say, "Stop, all together, the practices that will cause chaos and bring people together. " You're going to privatize the land's property, and you're going to have the children of that country thrown out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's hard on the consciences. I'm conveying the matter to the Minister in the presence of the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0151par0417	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "$50,000" mentioned in the 5th and 6th jokes of Article 14 of the current Section 3283 Mining Law shall be changed to "the cost of the spiritual base." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0152par0426	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0151par0427	Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP, who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0153par0429	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the draft of Mining Law number 683. I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you some information about the size of the mining sector as we discuss this law. As of the end of 2014, about 70,000 workers work in the mining sector, including 22,000 underground. 70,000 workers may not be seen much, 70 thousand workers with millions of workers in a situation where they work... so, even if there's a problem in this sector, they're working elsewhere. But some very important lawmakers say: A mine worker provides 12 jobs because of his employment, I'd like to underline that. A mine worker, on the other hand, provides work for 12 different workers in different sectors where it's effective. So if we multiply this by 70,000, it's about 800,900 thousand people working today, the mining industry. And in terms of employment -- as I mentioned earlier -- it's at the top of our most important sectors. But this new law, more than opening the way for this sector and increasing employment, will increase its share in national revenues, will, unfortunately, have consequences for shrinking the sector. Our friends have mentioned it before, and we've mentioned it in our motion, so the law brings in such harsh practices that a minor setback cannot be forgiven. Here's your report, 30 grand fine. You've shorted that collateral, the tuition, the registration fee, 50,000 lira fines. You didn't meet the delegation from the Department of Mines over there, a fine of 30,000 lira. Punishments, punishments, punishments... but there are no steps to pave the way for the industry. I mean, what is it supposed to be, dear friends? I also mentioned in my previous speech that in order to address these problems, we need to go to a shell change in the mining sector. In order to do that, we need to increase the measures in terms of job safety. It's one of the most important things about job security is that we provide our equipment needs at the highest level. I'm telling you again, it's very important that the work safety equipment be brought in without duty. I mean, if we're saying Chinese goods are weak, not secure enough, let's bring what's the best quality product in the world, let's use it in our stoves, but please, let's bring it in without customs, bring it in without VAT. Now, in 2014, as far as I know, there's been a state rights fee of close to $370 million. I mean, why don't we just waste this state right on safety measures? Why don't we spend it on technological investments so we can make safer productions, make more efficient productions? So, last year, this country spent $390 million just as health care for Syrian refugees, and when I asked the Minister, it responded. But we can do this level of numbers to renovate our sector, to help with the change of the shell. So that's what we're going to suggest next. The introduction of half of the amount paid as this state's right to technological investments will be a crucial step towards overcoming the sector's difficulties. With these thoughts, I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0154par0438	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 683th amendment to Article 30 of Mining Law 3213 shall be removed from the draft text of the 15th article. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 683 Orders Numbered Mine Law shall be changed from the article text of Articles 3 and 5 of different Articles 30 to the frame of the 15th Amendment. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0155par0459	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0154par0460	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0156par0463	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Republican People's Party motion for Article 15 of the Law on Mining Law number 683, and I salute you. My dear friends, Turkey is a land of strangeness. I mean, strange, strange things happen in Turkey. There are terrible events in Turkey. And the deaths, the disasters of the citizens, are overlapping, but we can't find the political responsible for any of this. There are incidents, terrible events, but there are no political responsibilities. My dear friends, one of the strangest things is that Turkey is standing because of power cuts and electricity bills. The other day we walked with citizens in Antalya, my dear friends. With torches in our hands, we protested the darkness of the Justice and Development Party, the darkness of the non-compulsive companies, but only us, the Ministry of Energy, the EPDK watched. Nothing's changed. Turkey has no energy supply security. Turkey has no cheap energy for producers, industrialists, citizens. The pumps don't work because the electricity isn't paid; the citizens don't have water, the fields don't have water. So, what is it? There's a stake in the electricity bills, there's a power outage, there's a guarantee of profit to the corporate allies, my dear friends. What else? There's death in the mines in Turkey, persecution in the mines, there's rout transfer in the mines, but think of a Ministry of Energy that has no responsibility in this painting. At the beginning of his mission, he uses all of his energy to watch this painting to protect companies, not domestics. It's always special laws for corporate allies, my dear friends. The Mining Law changed in 2004. If you ask, then there's a revolution, but no one's listening to the warnings. Then there were five more modifications between 2006-2014. Is there a problem here? Why do so many laws change? It's designed to give the pursers new opportunities to close the minefields. These changes are being made because the ministers of the Justice and Development Party do not recognise the law. That's why the law doesn't hold stitches. There are worse arrangements each time. My dear friends, take a look at the 15th article, there's a contradiction. It says in this article: "We gather a field together, if it's abandoned, we re-certify the area, but if there's valid licenses in it, if it collides over and over again, we'll tender between the two of them. How can you trust yourself if you don't accept the validity of your own licenses?" How will the world trust you? How are the companies going to trust them? This has nothing to do with legal security, this clause needs to be removed completely, from us. Now, something much more interesting came in, and last night came a bill signed by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, my dear friends. A wasted bill of the Electric Market Law came to mind. The Justice and Development Party is selling everything to prolong its political life - forests, dams, streams, everything. He also sold distribution companies, which were sold for $12.7 billion. What happened when he sold it? It was supposed to get better when it got special, but it didn't. Citizens' bills started to swell, electricity cuts started, citizens rebelled, went to court, no bills like this, these companies are robbing me, I want justice. He said, "Yes, there's a score here, there's a robbery here." That's not how it works; it's unfair, it's illegal collection; it's paid back. But this is Turkey of the Justice and Development Party, where court decisions don't apply. What do you do? You make a mop under your feet. Sejdişehir Aluminum is an example of this. You've passed the law twice, both of which have been cancelled, in order not to enforce the court's decision. What kind of law state is that? Look, the price of electricity sold from a free dam next to a 305 million dollar factory is almost $2 billion, 2 quadrillion in old money. Dear friends, I have a lot to say, but my time is up. Alas, it is a sin. Don't kill this country, my lords. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0157par0473	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 683th amendment to Article 30 of Mining Law 3213 shall be removed from the draft text of the 15th article. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0158par0482	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0157par0483	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to limit mining and monopolism, which will further increase the problems we face in mining and working life today, as well as the prospect of mining in the mining area. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of Article 16 and the first joke of Article 31 of the current 683 Section 3213 Mining Code, the current 683 Orders Numbered Mining Law, the framework can be held close to each other for operational integrity and without regard to the regular detention area of the various 31st Articles." We propose and propose that the phrase "$30,000" in its second joke be changed to "the cost of the legal base." Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Şafak Namik Havutça Sakine Öz Kemal Millerderelı Atilla Kart Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the first joke of Article 16 of Article 31 of Mining Law 3213 in the following way. "MEDDE 31 - Operating operations in mining license fields, except for source salts, are under the supervision of a mining engineer. Other vocational disciplines -- one of which is a geology engineer -- are required to employ engineers, considering business technique, size and geological structure, as a minimum mining engineer in business activities in the field. The size and quality of the business in a business with a permanent handler and working on shifts is determined by the regulations imposed by the Ministry to implement the task, authority and responsibilities of other engineers who will be forced to work each shift, or other engineers who will be assigned to work. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th Amendment to the 683 Orders of the Common Law and Some Laws. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "MADE 16-3213 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 31 of the Law. "Containment and technical staff: MADDE 31-Except for the source salts, business activities in mining license fields are conducted under the supervision of a mining engineer. In the business activities of mining license fields, a minimum mining engineer is required to employ enough engineers from other vocational disciplines, including business technique, size and geological structure. The size and quality of the business in a business with a permanent handler and a working shift is determined by the regulations imposed on each shift, which will be mandatory for the mining engineer and other engineers who will be assigned to the task, authority and responsibilities, the deployment procedure and the basics of the training, the procedure of the work and the basics of the ministry. In the event of a mining operation without providing the conditions for employment mentioned in the first joke, three months will be granted administrative fine on the basis of the registration price. In the meantime, mining operations will be halted if the shortcomings are not met. Action is permitted if employment conditions are met." Alim Ik Mehmet Şandir Yusuf Halaçoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0159par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0157par0516	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm reading the motive. Under the arrangement, one of the other engineers who will work for the mining engineers was intended to be a geology engineer, to reduce the fines imposed on the verbs, and to be given additional time to repair the shortcomings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the first joke of Article 16 of Article 31 of Mining Law 3213 in the following way. "MEDDE 31 - Operating operations in mining license fields, except for source salts, are under the supervision of a mining engineer. Other vocational disciplines -- one of which is a geology engineer -- are required to employ engineers, considering business technique, size and geological structure, as a minimum mining engineer in business activities in the field. Based on the size and quality of the business in a business with a permanent handler and working shifts, the management of mines, geology engineers, or other engineers who will be forced to work each shift, the task, authority and responsibilities, appointment procedure and basics, education, work procedures, and fundamentals are set into force by the Ministry. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir). Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0160par0528	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0157par0529	I'm reading the reason: As a result of our country's geological and tectonic structure, our minefields are highly curved, broken, broken, alterated, worn, moved, and shaped as we see them today. For this reason, it is known that the field's geology-geotechnical properties are well known and must be followed when it is operated as well as in the search for the mines. The continuation of a productive and secure business will be possible, however, with the pursuit of these features. For this reason, geology engineering services in the mining sector provide continuity in the process of searching, researching, finding, operating, and leaving in harmony with the environment. In the process of mining and operating, new geological data on the mine bed can be revealed at every stage, and with the interpretation of these data on surface and underground mineral geology maps, new targets are detected, and business projects can be developed in light of new data. In recent years, significant new reserves have been found as a result of geological research and research in mining fields such as Murgul, the Globe and Divritic, which have been run since the 1940s. The creation of mineral geology maps during the operation is an important document that contains data that will ensure the best operating of mines, a national fortune. The detection of faults, fractures, and cracks to be encountered during the implementation of the mining project is significant geological risks, such as determining the behavior and endurance parameters of geological units, including the field's underground water/hydrojeology, and the direction of production, as well as the emergence of accidents that can lead to life and economic losses. The risk arises in open enterprises as serious excitements, caused by the angles and altitudes of geological units, as they fall or fall, as blocks fall in closed businesses, collapse, ceiling collapse, mismanagement, flooding. As a result, there are loss of life and loss of production and other economic losses in businesses such as geological and geotechnic elements, such as geological structures, rock properties, and underground water. As a matter of fact, the recent Afshin Elbistan, Soma and Ermenek mining accidents occurred as a result of these geological risks were not foreseen and necessary measures were not taken. Again, given Business Law 4857 and its relevant regulations, geology engineers also serve as business safety specialists at mining workplaces. For the specified reasons, the mining engineer will be operating methods, while the geology engineer will be conducting geological, geotechnic, hydrogeological and structural geology, with a more efficient and healthier and secure working and operating environment. In this respect, it is intended that a geology engineer and a mining engineer work together in mining businesses. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of Article 16 and the first joke of Article 31 of the current 683 Section 3213 Mining Code, the current 683 Orders Numbered Mining Law, the framework can be held close to each other for operational integrity and without regard to the regular detention area of the various 31st Articles." We propose and propose that the phrase "$30,000" in its second joke be changed to "the cost of the legal base." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0161par0547	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0157par0548	It's Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0162par0551	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 16th Amendment of the Mining Legislature. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, 2014 has gone black for us. Our hearts burned with the pain of the miners, the blackened women and our children, who spent hundreds of lives on a handful of coal. The Parliament, which has been considered a cure to ease the pain a little bit, to heal the wounds, has been asked to be defeated by the government's reckless politics, which has been shot down. After May 13th, a parliamentary research commission focused on laundering the ministers and institutions, not on the real problems of mining and labour safety, almost covered up the facts of Soma. As we explained in the 250 - page opposition situation against the Soma Commission Report, our basic principle in mining should be to focus on efficient domestic energy sources, supervised projects and production, to re-open public mining and efficiency, to develop an understanding that delivers the sweats of miners and engineers and their families without delay. There's no point in punishing the firm alone, training the industry with a money stick. As long as we don't do the proper regulations, careful inspections, you won't get results again unless you try to enforce the firms in the mines where the TMMOB rooms that we're trying to remove their powers from you are constantly warning you about. There is a very clear fact: As we have clearly highlighted in the Soma Commission, the fact that MIGEM did not use its actual control authority in the project processes, that MTA would be disabled in the collection of basin mining, licensing and geology processes, not enough feasibility studies have been done, which has caused the disaster to appear in both Soma. The fact that the government has a map of production in the mining field is different from the company's map, the fact that the geology of drilling data was not regularly done was clearly effective in the water raid in Ermenek, and that the Soma Commission has asked about Ermenek, the MEGAM official, who has not been able to make clear the actual field and drilling values that the company has produced. The Ministry of Labor has made it clear that there have been no regular drillings in its controls for two years, but it has deepened the extent of pain both in Ermenek, and in Soma. In the past eight months since May 13th, the government has blocked its ears to dozens of packets of solutions for permanent steps in the mining sector and in business security, reports of engineering rooms, lists of solutions for the Soma Commission. As thousands of miners struggle with their savings with future concerns, the Ministry has gone to close the mines instead of secure mining, making the sector completely nervous for show reasons. On January 11, 2014, the number of mines closed to the Soma disaster was 208; from May 13th to December 31st, the number suddenly rose to 661. From the May 13th Soma disaster, this 661 license site, which has been shut down so far, has six things to do with the public, 655, special and real legal individuals. The ministry halted production in 188 mining fields after the Ermenek disaster. You, who started with Soma, the AKP ranks, and were so imprisoned in the chain of catastrophes leading to Ermenek, that when you cleared the ministers, while cleaning the MEGAM and TKIEH, the first person to turn his back on the AKP members of the Commission for mining was Prime Minister Davutoglu. Sadly, the government, which did not listen to the Soma Commission's list of solution proposals, had announced the package that would sign new errors in the field of business health, safety and mining before the Soma Commission announced its report, even listening to its own voice from parliament, once again ignoring the will of Parliament, our will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Members of parliament, with this bill, the MiGEM has passed control powers over to the private sector, while the sanctioned legal person has left the constitutional control duties of the state in the mines to the companies, and you allow them. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0163par0563	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 683 Sequential Law and the 17th Amendment to some Laws We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. "He may request to take the necessary safety measures in the licensed field and to release the mineral geology map prepared with other engineers, including the geology engineer and geology engineer, showing the final state of the field." Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim İlk Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the law bill 683 rows, which was drafted by the geologic engineer to come after the "signal map" and the declaration in its first joke in Article 3213 of the Mining Law, which regulates Article 323. "The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism monitors and oversees this process." Pervin Buldan Property One Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding the "appointment map and" sign issued in the first article of Article 17 of the Section 3213 Charter for Change in the 683 Order of Mining Law is provided to the end of its third joke, "The cost of its activities in this area is the assurance of an accountant of the administration, which gives its license to carry out integration plans with the environment." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Şaş Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Sakine Öz Namık Havutça Attila Kart Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0164par0592	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0163par0593	Mehmet Hilal Kaplan is the MP of Kokueli who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0165par0596	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my speech, he honors those who have lost their lives in the mining business so far, and today supports the struggles of the metal workers who have gone on strike because they have failed to pay for their labors throughout Turkey, and I wish them success. Dear lawmakers, mining accidents and accidental deaths have increased rapidly since the start of privatisation in the 2000s. In particular, many of our citizens have lost their lives in the recent mining accidents that occurred in Soma, Ermenek, Zonguldak, and many of our provinces. We're all heartbroken. Part of our heart is buried in the mines, beneath the ground. I'm afraid we've learned nothing from the measures we need to discuss in order for this painful painting not to happen again. This job is the cause of increased accidents and deaths, Minister, privatisation. We can't call it privatisation. In privatisation, some environments are supposed to be given in order to ensure the benefit of the state, and although it's called privatisation, it's in no way intended for employees, people and state to be pursued without the benefit of the public and state. Can you imagine, dear lawmakers, that the state doesn't extract coal from the mine itself, that someone will get a bride? I'll take all the coal you pulled out. What I'm asking you to do is just lower the cost. Mr. Secretary, the government officials, is this privatisation? What does a man of the state do who buys or rents this job in the way the state wants it to do? His sole purpose is profit. He gives subcontractors to the government for more profits, starts ignoring work safety measures, deepening working conditions and hours. So, what does he invite? It invites business accidents. In fact, it's a little rude to call them business accidents. It's more accurate to call them "work killings" because we're formally inviting them consciously and methodically. Now, at this point, I made an offer of law. My proposal for the law was: "Let the state produce coal for itself, and under no circumstances should it contract redevance. " What's wrong with that? You said the state is big. You said that the state has the authority to do whatever it wants in any institution, to give the rights of its employees to the full end. Then why do you give coal to privatizing a product that we've acquired from an important substance, especially energy? Look, Mr. Secretary, in countries that produce five or six times more than we do, unfortunately, there are no deaths in our line of work. Don't they have business accidents in their outlet? So, I want you to empathize with this... valuable lawmakers, under the ground, working 500 metres, the mining worker will go into the mine knowing the challenge, the danger. A responsible state also knows that its citizen is obliged to provide work environment, occupational security, safety of life and property. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, no one's sorry, but the state and your concerned Ministry are guilty of this. Your good intentions and soft behavior are not enough to cover this up. I have no doubt about your good intentions, but the souls of those whom we lost in the mines, and the wives and the orphaned children who remain behind, are a disgrace to all of us. If that's not the solution, why don't we sign the Security and Health Convention on Mines 176 of the ILO contracts?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0166par0604	We signed it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0165par0605	We signed it, and it just happened. Now that Zimbabwe, Zambia, Albania, Armenia, the Czech Republic have signed countries that are far behind us in economic and social development, why are we considering this after the Soma and Ermenek murders? Look, dear lawmakers, in these accidents, in these job killings, does the state have no responsibility, completely leave the miner responsible? No audits, no safety measures, no licensing process is given in any way he wishes, working conditions and hours are left at the miners' mercy, no social possibilities are granted. So, who's the organ that's supposed to provide them? State. How does the government get up in the water like olive oil without a crime in this thing? I think, for him, at the point of learning from these events, everyone has a responsibility, but at first I believe the state has a very serious responsibility. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0167par0609	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the law bill 683 rows, which was drafted by the geologic engineer to come after the "signal map" and the declaration in its first joke in Article 3213 of the Mining Law, which regulates Article 323. "The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism monitors and oversees this process." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0168par0619	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0167par0620	I'm reading the reason: The geology engineer's declaration, which is the only vocational discipline to map mine geology, should be added to this clause, and it is explained by what occupational discipline the mineral geology maps will be drawn up by the process, which has been considered a problem within the implementation of the mineral law for years, even by removing the process of administrative litigation. It is also imperative that the measures taken by the licensed owner be monitored and supervised by the relevant ministry, both political responsibility and functioning. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th Amendment to the 683 Sequential Law and some Laws. We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. "He may request to take the necessary safety measures in the licensed field and to release the mineral geology map prepared with other engineers, including the geology engineer and geology engineer, showing the final state of the field." Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0169par0634	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0167par0635	I'm reading the reason: Under the arrangement, the creation of mineral geology maps was intended to address the problems in this area by being employed by a geology engineer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the law bill, which is currently in session, 683 rows, shall be changed into "double the cost of the spiritual base" of Article 18 in Article 36 of Mining Act 3213. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "the cost of the state base" in the framework of Article 18 shall be changed into "half the cost of the spiritual basis" of the current 683 Order 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Günah Sakine Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Kemal Millendereli Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0170par0656	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0167par0657	Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0171par0660	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on Article 18 of Mining Law No. 683. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we've been talking for two days. I want to say the last thing from the beginning. This law, in this case, is a law that will shrink the sector beyond opening the way for the mining industry, beyond improving the sector, beyond strengthening it, beyond solving its problems, beyond supporting mining activities. Just as the laws that have been passed before have finished the small farmer, just as the laws that have been passed have finished the small business, this law will end the small miner. More than 2,000 people work in underground mining businesses in Edirne, my science. I don't know, I mean, 2,000 jobs may not be considered a very important job, but as I just said, a mine worker is providing jobs to 12 employees in 12 different sectors. So I did a study, and only the mining industry in Edirne is contributing to Edirne's economy more than three counties contribute to agriculture. So when this law comes out, my three counties will be flooded, and I won't be able to buy an ounce of product from these counties, these counties. This will be a loss equivalent to the livelihood of some 150-200 thousand families. In this sense, my friends and I, from the beginning, have to support this sector as someone who's been in the industry, although there are good materials here -- the main thing is punishment, punishment, punishment -- but the issue is that we can't see the incentives to make the industry jump, we can't see the ingredients to feed it. I mean, I'd really like to share this with you. Another important issue has also been mentioned, and I, as a mining engineer, had shared in the Commission talks the difficulties of those authorized by this law, which means that this concept of sanctioned corporate individuals is not clear enough. Yes, it will be determined by regulations, so as the Minister and the concerned have promised, I hope, it will be very important for the rooms to have their opinions taken as this regulation is set, and to take certain measures that will satisfy the ability of mining engineers to work on their own reputations and accounts that have been taken from the hands of geology engineers. Dear friends, another important issue, this law has been really rushed. However, we should have taken advantage of the Soma Report when we drafted this law. The National Assembly of Turkey's Parliamentary Research Commission report, which worked in 2010, was really a brick report, which was studied for months, discussed with all the components of the sector, and a vision for the mining sector, which was not benefited. In this sense, it comes as a law that both the industry and the parties have prepared before they can digest enough. I do believe that if we deal with these shortcomings with our motions, we will do useful work for the industry, and I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0172par0666	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law bill 683 rows shall be changed into "double the cost of the soul base" in Article 18 under Article 36 of Mining Act 3213. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION AHMET ERDAL FERALAN (Nevşehir), Mr. President, we are not participating. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0173par0675	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0174par0676	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit04spe0172par0677	I'm reading the reason: A change was intended for further action. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0172par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second section includes articles 19 to 30, including articles 30, including Articles 10 and Articles 11 and Articles 11 and Article 24 of the framework, interim 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, depending on Articles 23 of the article. On the second chapter, Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak for him.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0175par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second part of Law Bill 683. I salute you all. Now, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, this bill regulates certain powers, but somehow it doesn't regulate responsibilities. We've said it many times before, this Justice and Development Party's power has now become a power fetishist. I express that on purpose. He's not satisfied with authority, authority, authority, but when he sees responsibility, he runs away like a hound. Don't run away from responsibility. If there's authority, there's responsibility. This bill is also the government's way of avoiding a responsibility. And unscheduled... government, a plan you call Ministry, works within the program, plans, organises, other than that, does staffing, audits, performs management functions, but at first, he has no plans. Now, the Plan and Budget Commission have received an offer of a clause. Other laws, as well as other issues, are now being discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission to establish a university of health sciences at the moment. A separate university institution, the National Education Commission, has regulations concerning the Mining Law. Now, I'm curious to know that various arrangements for the Work Commission regarding occupational security... So, no plans, no schedules, no accounts, no books, that's it. On December 1, 2,831 mining workers were fired by telephone messages. This note here in my hand is from the hands of the mine workers, the one they wrote and the one they gave me. The workers want to be compensated as soon as possible. And when will this government make the arrangements for him? As soon as possible, they want their business, their mines, to be opened safely, and they want to start working. They have credit and credit card debts; they need to be postponed for a while. Like the workers in Ermenek, they expect to be employed in public. Members of the families who suffered from the accident, the disaster on May 13th, have made their applications, they have not yet been employed. What about the workers who were fired? Your Majesty, remember, under the scope of the ISKUR, we also know that you have employed 10,000 people in Şanlıurfa, even for nine months under the scope of community benefit practices, and we are following you. You must also make arrangements for the employment of our workers. Didn't you open an underground mine worker and iftar in Ramadan, Mr. Secretary? You couldn't praise these mines. Miner disasters have happened, workers have been laid off; you are not with the workers, we cannot see you. What does your government want to do? You have to be very clear about this. You made some tenders, nationalizations to build a thermal plant in Soma Yrca, and brought the company against the people, your government, you brought it. What right do you have? The extensions, etc. without contract, without legal, without the board's decision, we've brought them up before, and we'll bring them up again in the days to come. There are disasters, lives are lost, stoves are extinguished, and then a visit to condolences, and if you had written a letter, you would have told us about the condition of these mines. In other words, those who are in power, the President, the Prime Minister and members of the government, are showing that Turkey is under personal and arbitrary management. 804 workers complained about Mining in 2012 because they failed to receive their two-month salary. What did you do? You didn't do anything. How more will the citizens and workers write to you? On December 25, 2013, 121 workers complained to the Ministry of Labor, their complaints were raised by six, no solutions, so here's the worker who wrote the letter to you. Only between 2009 and 2013, there are 1,120 mining accidents in the Darkale Mining Room, and there are no precautions. Now, one very important thing: this unplanned, unregistered, unregistered, bookless, is one of the greatest examples of such legislature and execution, my dear friends, this bill. The Soma Commission did its work meticulously, with its shortcomings, but it presented a very serious report. Lawmakers of the ruling commissioners also tried to make a serious contribution as opposition, despite all their shortcomings. And that lack was just a government effort to get rid of this accident and its responsibility in the accident, and we'll bring them up. But in other cases, why doesn't the Department of Energy consider these regulations? Why don't you consider the reports of this research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? This is a situation that should be completely condemned. The report detailed the main problems in the mining sector, the problems stemming from audits to mining, redevans and service applications, subcontractors, infrastructure issues related to business health and safety, the problems stemming from integrity, scientific and technical approach in the mining sector. The results of these reports should be examined and evaluated, while the bill is being drafted and the final form of the Commission is being given, while the entire work and the amendment proposals have been ignored. After every major mining accident, legislation changes are being made, but the real problems are not being touched. This bill prepares the legal infrastructure to operate public-owned businesses, especially coal, in the form of rejection. There are arrangements to meet the expectations of corporate allies regarding penalties and other financial issues. There is an effort to reduce the reaction to the government and channel it in a different direction and get rid of responsibility by creating a structure under the name of the government. We don't think it's right to establish a structure under the name of authorized and authorized executives, instead of technical oversight. Mines are the property of the state, the public. This is clearly stated in Article 168 of the Constitution. You're privatizing government control rights. So what's the government gonna do, brother, if you don't check it out? That's an awful lot of recklessness. Now, the Parliamentary Research Commission report should remove the subcontractory system in public mining businesses. With this bill, there's no regulation on public rejection, it has to be done. Again, the research commission says the market should reduce obligations, such as state rights, private management, fees, guarantees. Contrary to proposals, the fee for a business license increases between 1.5 times and 15 times, raising the state share by 50 per cent. In the report of the Soma mining accident research commission, the proposals are being reversed. With these thoughts, I wish to make sure that our criticism is taken into consideration, with all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0176par0028	Thank you. The second speaker on the episode is Osman Aydın, Aydın MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0177par0032	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have taken a pledge from my group on Mining Law number 683, and part two of the Law Bill for Change in Some Laws. I salute you all. The mining industry is indeed a very important sector for our economy. Given the 2013 figures, it's clear that a number of imports, such as 107 billion dollars, is made up of different assets under the definition of "managency." Given that nearly $60 billion is governed by the oil and oil Act, the economic size involved in the Mining Law is clearly equivalent to $50 billion in imports. So these numbers weren't very different in 2014. At these levels, the foreign trade deficit, the mineral products that we import, in our foreign trade at 50 billion dollars -- the most important problem in our economy -- is that it's about $50 billion in foreign trade deficits. Therefore, because of its importance, the mining industry, indeed, is among the most encouraged sectors, such as the backward local incentives in philosophy, as thought. As a sector, even if you continue this activity in developed areas, you have to take advantage of the backward local incentives as philosophy. Because mining is, in fact, the most important industry in the countryside that employs in another way, but today, unfortunately, in our government's actions, we don't see this understanding, this philosophy. For example, friends, in June 2012, a district was published by the Prime Minister. This was the exact same way: the lease of all public assets, real estate, is tied to the Prime Minister's permission, with a two-line generalization. Unfortunately, the mining sector took the biggest hit as a result of this two-line sentence. In terms of numbers, the mining industry took this blow, which the miners had done from June 2012, to open a business, to open a furnace; because they couldn't get permission for thousands of files in the forest fields, because they couldn't get thousands of files, friends and because they couldn't get permission, because of the fact that they couldn't get permission, in 2013, the mining sector, friends, minus 4.8 of our country's economy grew. The failure to open the stove, as a result of the failure to produce, has reduced the mining sector to minus 4.8, my friends. What does that mean, minus 4.8? Friends, the 2002 disaster, the economic crisis in 2002, was negative 5.1 percent. So, as a result of this sentence, it is clear and clear that the mining industry has suffered a major disaster because it cannot open a stove, because it cannot produce. What happened to the result? At the beginning of 2014, our Prime Minister gave a directive, all of these files were forwarded to relevant institutions, relevant agencies, and after those permits were granted within the framework of the law, in 2014, about 8% of the first quarter grew in the mining sector. The number of growths in 2014 has not yet been announced, but it appears to be less than three. Given that, the damage the generalization has done to the sector, the mining sector, is clearly seen as obvious. This sentence needs to be removed quickly, friends, one of the miner's biggest problems is this generalization, and it needs to be removed quickly. A second issue has come to the attention of the new issue, the mining industry, which has encountered an unimaginable increase in the new policy on rent prices within the framework of the Forest Law. Friends, the mining industry is taking advantage of public land for two purposes. One is the areas he rents to produce furnaces, mines, and one is the areas he rents for facilities, the areas he rents to build facilities. Because the facilities, indeed, are actually going up into the mountains, especially in the forestlands, because it's causing trouble to the city with its dust and its smoke on one side of the city. However, with this recent change of regulations, the price hikes reached 600 per cent. With these price hikes, there's no way to do mining at these prices, hire them, pay these rent prices, friends. I'll give you an example: the price of wooding on a 100-acre forest field is taken at once, it used to be $100,000, now it's $111,000. The mining industry has no objection to that. But there's an annual rent fee, guys, $47,000 for 100 acres of land. The miner, who paid $47,000 before the generalization, is now paying the rent price of $217,000 with this new sentence, my friends. When we did a second calculation for the factory location, for the 100 acres that were rented for the plant place, the cost of allocation of the land was increased each year to £44,000,622,000 TL. This is the price of property per acre in Gediz Plain, the Plains of Mendes, the Plains of Mendes. These costs are not affordable; they are not possible to collect; they are not possible to maintain mining activity. Our underground coal companies couldn't afford the two differences we created in the bag law. The two differences we created were that we doubled the wages, doubled the minimum wage, reduced the workforce to eight hours from eight hours to six hours. We're not against it, folks, we're not against it, but our businesses are closed, our underground coal companies are closed. This needs to be made up, and it needs to be done quickly. In order to produce a solution, the government must not buy 18 per cent of the VAT. The government has to pay the SEC bonuses and taxes. The government has to take over the severance that this difference has brought, so that our thousands of unemployed citizens on the street can go back to work, and our thousands of tons of coal production can be restored. In order for the industry to survive, it must be used by the truly backward local incentives. The philosophy to take advantage of the backward local incentives needs to dominate the sector's leadership. The 50,000 liras, 30,000 liras, the heavy fines we place in each article will bring heavy burdens to the sector's shoulders. For him to reduce these sentences to a reasonable level, for the sector to survive, for the sector to be mobile, it must be reduced to a reasonable level. With these wishes, I wish the law well. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0178par0042	Thank you. The third speaker on the episode is Erol Dora, Mardin MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0179par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the second chapter of the Law on the Amendment to some Laws under Mining Law number 683. I salute the General Assembly. A balance between the basic needs of human life and sustainability of natural resources can be made within the framework of a holistic planning in harmony with the social and environmental dimensions of economic activities. In a similar way, the sustainability of an economic field of mining can be conducted with comprehensive and qualified planning, considering geological, legal, environmental and social factors. In this context, the mines must be removed, provided that the measures for labour health and occupational safety are properly taken and that no harm is done to the environment. Dear MPs, the quality of mining activities in Turkey has once again surfaced, leaving no doubt about the Soma and Ermenek catastrophes. After every major mining disaster, after the workers' murders, governments have changed the legislation, but since it is not focused on the real problems, a realistic and long-term arrangement cannot be carried out. This bill has been reflected in the form of a major change to the press and public, but has been deprived of many qualified arrangements to ensure the safety of mining activities and the life of mining workers. However, important work has been done by different institutions, following recent mining disasters and mining workers' murders. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have completed the Turkish National Assembly Soma Research Commission Report on the Soma mining disaster, making significant assessments at both the point of labour health and business safety and the point of mining activities. In addition, the People's Control Agency's report on the same matter has been concluded. Again, the results of the reports prepared by the Mining Engineers' Room should be examined, and the proposals should be evaluated, and we see that most of the proposals made in the reports were not even considered. Dear lawmakers, even through concrete statistics, not only in mining activities, but in many businesses, the problem of employee safety is alarming. The statement of government officials trying to naturalise the deaths of workers in front of the parliament and in front of the press is exemplary. You need to speak the truth and take measures on that fact. See, Turkey is Europe's first place in fatal business accidents per 100,000 workers; it is the third place in the world. According to International Labour Organization ILO data, the number of workers killed every year in Turkey, which ranked third in the deaths of workers after El Salvador and Algeria. According to ILO data, the rate of business accidents resulting in death is 20 per 100,000 per 100,000 in Turkey, while the rate is lower than 2 per 100,000 in countries such as Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Denmark. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security data, 172 work accidents occur every day in Turkey. These accidents cost the lives of four average workers every day, while six workers are constantly unable to function. Dear lawmakers, the largest mining job murder in our history, took place in Soma. A January in Soma, which had previously been run by the public and was handed over to Soma Holdings by a redevance contract. As details of the accident arise, the concept of minimum production in the redevance agreement shows that the production company, which is producing more and less, has been pressured to produce more and less cheaply, and companies have not taken sufficient measures to ensure job safety in the face of this pressure, bringing untrained staff to the ground with insufficient equipment, not even allowed to go out for food or shift change. In addition, it has been revealed that control activities are inadequate, that the people who are being audited on behalf of the public have only done a limited audit through the document, and that the company's own handlers have not prepared their audit reports properly. Mr. President, it turns out that planning in a large coal mine basin in the disaster of Ermenek has not been done on the basin site, due to the lack of an underground map throughout the basin. It has been determined that water from the old gallery to the new gallery, where the gallery was so close to the old gallery, which had already been opened and was no longer operated, that the water that was pressured around the new gallery cost the lives of our miners. However, while public, mining workers and relevant civil society institutions await the removal of the redevance work, the bill is forbidden to run only with the private sector's redevance agreement, as if the accident had occurred in the private sector redevance business, without a public regulation. On the other hand, there was no provision for legislation and practices that introduced public redevance businesses into more work, more products, cheaper production structures. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been assigned to an institution called the corporate community, not technical oversight. With this arrangement, the government privatises its control authority. The government has been given the responsibility of inspection and cannot be handed over by the Constitution. As a matter of fact, in the past, the Constitutional Court has cancelled the regulations that have been passed over. Following the two major mining disasters, the implementation of corporate individuals authorized for inspection means nothing more than the Ministry's tendering control to someone else in order to avoid responsibility. With this arrangement, no more business accidents will be responsible for the events of the company's owner or partners. Authorised corporate individuals are the privatisation of the state's right to control. Such privatisation logic is not right, it must be removed from the bill. Dear lawmakers, covering up the negatives in the mining field, caring for a group of people, pretending there's nothing wrong, trying to make the workers forget the workers who have lost their lives because they've avoided their neglect and their security expenses. Mines are the property of the public. Therefore, the state must be in mining activity, but it has to be far from understanding that it will be treated according to the investor's proximity to power, without understanding that some investors will be favoured, some will be ruined. As a result, the bill is far from implementing arrangements to address the problems of mining. It is not a text that envisions the design of the mines by implementing engineering science and technique, taking care of labour health and occupational safety measures. It's far from serious suggestions that will protect our resources, protect the environment, and prevent business accidents. In this context, there is a need for comprehensive regulations that will provide an improvement in environmental and social dimensions, envisioning international, scientific, technical and fundamentally labour safety. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0180par0061	Thank you. Now, Alim Ilk, MP of Kütahya, has asked for a personal word on the department. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0181par0065	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself in the second chapter of Bill 683. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, there's been a lot of talk about the industry. In this particular department, two important issues will be presented before the General Assembly as matter is discussed. First, the owners of mining licenses in underground coal enterprises of public institutions and institutions -- the areas in the state's hands -- will be able to make redevance contracts for production activities with third parties in part or all of the license fields. In other words, the state will now withdraw its hands from public spaces, from coal management, calling the private sector a welcome. So, we're going to see a section where subcontractorization is officially legalized. This is against the Constitution. You're going to leave public institutions and organizations out of it, and you're going to tell the private sector that you can't deal with the third party. The state is free; it can open these fields to whomever it wants, set the legal ground for slavery, but when a son of a country loses his life, there is no state. What should we do? Here, let the private sector take responsibility for it, and let it be punished. It's so wrong. We shouldn't let that happen. The second important issue is: those who operate in areas of Redevans and state, Tİ and Turkey Taşkomuru, so far, the state will not see the closure of private sectors in this country by the state's growing mining costs, especially in September, in order to address the victims of those who lost their lives after the fatal accident in Soma. So far -- the information from the director -- close to 150. The business has shut down because of this distress, and more than 10,000 workers have been unemployed, valued lawmakers. You're going to ignore this, but you're going to tell those who do business with the public -- only because they took these contracts for someone's sake -- we're going to pay for your loss. That's not gonna happen, and we can't let that happen. If it's going to happen, it's going to be the government's burden for both parties, and if it's not going to happen, I'm sorry, brother, but you're going to have to suffer the damage so far, just as someone else is going to suffer the burden of the private sector. Otherwise, there's no point in this House being here. Therefore, in this chapter, we must resolve these two important issues. Somehow, this great House has to solve the problems that have been created by the influence of the bag law on the industry. We are not interested in matters related to the Employment Act. In parallel, the high legislature's esteemed deputies are being brought here, as these law talks continue, and the commissions are also in the bag of legislation to improve the working conditions and to ensure business safety. Hold on to the working hours here, about the government taking over social security contributions that lead to additional costs, but with the private sector, but with the people doing business with the public, this Parliament will have to solve it. If we can't figure this out -- I'm willing to say it -- the arrangements in this bill that we've been working so hard here so far are not going to solve any problems. In short, you may be able to withdraw from the sector to perhaps tens, hundreds of small or medium-sized mining businesses that you've put in your head in the name of reckoning with someone, but you can't solve Turkey's problem. So, I'm putting an end to my words, again, demanding that our motions in this department be carefully examined and supported by the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0182par0072	Thank you. Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0183par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people regarding the Mining Law. I salute you all. When we talk about the Mining Law, let me tell you something in terms of the number that we're talking about, we're talking about a $117 billion external current deficit in the commercial volume of Turkey. About 50 billion oils and derivatives of this, 60 or so billion dollars of imports related to other mines. While we're discussing the legal arrangement of such a market, I'd like to share a perspective with you. I've been working on this Commission for eight years, and while working on this Commission, we have a saying as the Republican People's Party: Mining is an important issue for Turkey. Energy is a very important issue in Turkey's future and in the world's future. In this regard, the state must exercise its authority at the point where both the Constitution and its duties, which are the property of the public, are to do the saving and controlling of our mines, as well as the development of mining, as well as the state should be an investor in a policy that clears the way for investors. In opening the way for these investors, the government's main perspective on the mines they licensed, encouraging the mines to become high-value products, sharing the state's annual savings with both state institutions and private sectors during these production phases, putting their vision and production technology at a high level in that share. In this sense, the state has to be in this sector as a regulator and investor, not a withdrawal from the mining and energy sector. You can't give up after counting all those numbers. Look, guys, even though we've said this, and we've done all of this, and we've done all of this in energy, so do 33 percent of the renewable and domestic resources, and give that kind of incentive, and don't see the government's incentives in this area as wasted investments. Despite our warnings, here's the policy that I've seen for eight years: I'll get my hands off this job, give it to the private sector, and when I give it to them, I'll build a structure that's close to me. This has shown itself in the Prime Minister's General Assembly, has shown itself in cases of redevance, has shown other things, and the biggest danger has been that our external dependence on energy has really gone to the highest point in a country. So, there's a crisis in Russia, and as a result of this crisis, we can't negotiate or lower prices for natural gas, even though there's a decline in world oil, but our addiction is high. Not enough, now that one law is coming, we've given the nuclear law to the Russians and the nuclear. We're connected to them in nuclear, we're connected to them in our energy with natural gas power plants, we're connected to them in oil. It's a very important external addiction and an energy policy that's concentrated in the only country in which this is an external dependency. Is it true? It's definitely wrong. In this sense, we, as a state, had to do the government's active work within a national energy policy and this national energy policy. We've told them all about it, it hasn't been done. Now, a new draft of the law, as if they didn't exist, has come about both nuclear and energy markets. What do they do there? They're making legal arrangements to clear their way through problems so that privatized distribution companies can make a better profit. They're clearing the way for legalisation of the missing fugitive's price, which should not be taken under a court order. This is all wrong. Mr. Secretary, it is imperative that you enter a national energy policy and it is our duty. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0184par0082	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0185par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the CED report on Akkuyu's nuclear power plant has claimed that the signatures were fake, and the press has been very serious. Has it become clear, has there been a criminal investigation of the signatures, has there been an investigation, has there been a criminal action against anyone? I'd appreciate it if you'd be more specific. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0186par0088	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0187par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in the area of Gebze, and in the vicinity of Hereke, the quarry is digitally high. These quarryes also come to a point in the area of the settlement, especially in the Gebze region. In the past period, a decision made by the administrative governorship of Alexei will be made to the north side of the North Anatolian Highway to build an OSB (OSB) of the quarry in the region, especially those in Gebze and Hereke. However, I have a vision in the villages mentioned, and perhaps when I get a chance to speak, I'll say, do you have any idea if there's a quarry about 500 acres of all the quarryes in the forest villages? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0188par0093	Thank you. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0189par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there are serious power cuts in Mersin, the Mediterranean, Toroslar, Yenişehir, Mezitli, Erdemli, Silifke, Bozyazı, Aydıncık, Anamur, Mut, Gülnar and Çamiliya. Sometimes it lasts for days, and in some of our counties, I've witnessed a 12-hour blackout myself. Now, does your Ministry have any work on this? Is there any progress on infrastructure work? Or is the entire industry abandoned to the private sector and the nation abandoned to its destiny? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0190par0098	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0191par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you before, in Antalya, about 3,500 quarry mining licenses have been issued and all the mountains of Antalya have been pierced, all our citizens are disturbed by it, the forests are gone. How much more are you going to give, Minister, so is there a limit to this? How long will it take Antalya, the apple of the eye of the world, to endanger the mountains, the waters of such a place? What's this license gonna be, 3,500, 3,700, 4 grand, 7 grand? That's what I'm asking. Also, I live in Sub-Low County, where there's a storm, the slightest rainfall, the power goes out. Citizens are fed up with it. That's exactly what I'm shooting, and I'm actually thinking about getting a generator. Why don't you...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0192par0104	Yes, Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0193par0105	Mr. Secretary, the Kütahya Sugar Factory has been privatized and the Grandkids have bought it. While the grandchildren were buying food, they were not on the privatisation list, but with a trick on the deed, they moved 112 acres of land into their own bodies, and the process continues in the judiciary. Why did I say that? What does that have to do with you? What's important here is the Grandkids' Food. Grandkids Foods also bought Capital Gas. We also know the Grandkids' Foods as a friend of today's President's Imam orator. However, they also transferred the 200 million-dollar building of the EGO (EGO) to their own system of fraud on the deed, and again, there were objections, which was cancelled again and eventually returned to the EGO (EGO). Grandkids Food, Capital Gas, which means you're in...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0194par0110	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0195par0111	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary through you. Mr. Secretary, we agreed to one thing today when the 10th article was discussed. A draft bill was discussed at a point when the public-owned do-gooder model did not pay the state share. There's a problem with Izmir. I asked that in the Commission, and I just reminded the undersecretary again, and I'd like to make it public through you. The opening of a stove in the village of Akalan, Kemalpaşa, is a January instead of an area dedicated to the territorial road of İzmir-İstanbul, where it is assigned to the logistic road. The court has halted the execution, but your opinion is now requested. I don't know about...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0196par0115	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0197par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this is one of our cities where the industrial zone is busy. We have nine OSBs, especially in Gebze Dilova. Due to recent power outages, OSBs have suffered both economic damage and loss of their machinery due to frequent power outage. Is it possible for you to take precautions or measures by your ministry or at the point where the SMEs and medium-sized workplaces are damaged in this regard? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0198par0120	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0199par0122	I have a quick question, Mr. Secretary. Actually, just for the record, I can ask you this question personally. We're one of three countries in the world as a thorium mine. It's a mineral that has a very important function in energy today. Does your Ministry have a study on this? I'm curious about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0200par0125	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0201par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this Alaır tea is our most important tea in Antalya. You're making six HESs on top of Alakir, and those 6 HES send water to each other with pipes only. There will be no life there, Mr. Secretary. I want to know what's going on with this, what's the latest situation, what I want to know. And in the Citadel, cedar trees are being cut down quickly. Our villagers took walks. I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0202par0131	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0203par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to the press reports and reports of nuclear physics experts, there are statements that radioisotopes used to build nuclear weapons are also radioisotopes that will be used in Akkuyu's nuclear power plant if established. Is that true? Is that really what your government intends? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0204par0136	Thank you. Mr. Akar, here we go again. Last question.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0205par0138	Mr. Secretary, you've privatised 21 power distribution companies, and while these privatisations were being conducted, we've made indications that both the Court reports and our constant warnings, that the bank accounts of the privatised institutions have not been correctly identified, and that they haven't been read for a long time, and that these indicators have been made. You claimed that none of this was happening even though we kept it on the agenda all the time. However, the recent Court reports show that these institutions have been identified as privatized companies, and the trial process has begun some of them. Because some of them don't pay. Have you launched an investigation into the authorities? Where did this neglect come from? That's what I want to ask you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0204par0139	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0206par0141	Mr. President, dear friends, in the last six minutes that I have left, I'm going to try to answer the questions of 31 of our MPs and about 11 of ours. It's all about these things, if my deadline is extended now, or I'm going to try to address them in the speech at the end of the law. It was said about the 3,500 quarry in Antalya. Currently, the II-A group has been granted 117 licenses as a quarry and has been authorized to operate on 66 conditions. The business project for 39 of these licenses has been given and is in the process of reviewing them. The license is not granted within historical structures. Actions are also terminated in the event the previously licensed areas become a status area. Now, here, perhaps, to further emphasis on authority, who has the authority? There's a period of authority, especially in the case of the people who started with Kopeeli, Mugla and Antalya, and then we applied it to all of our other provinces. If the governors don't allow that quarry to be built there for any other reason or because it's corrupted, it's under their jurisdiction. We give these in Antalya, believing that all these quarryes are required in accordance with the need, but in the end, there are so many cities which are now banned and restricted, in the case of demand. These aren't operations to be built and stockpiled, these are operations to be used when it's built. The environment, urbanization, tourism, site areas, and the construction of quarry activities, we have also stated that they cannot be done, and at the request of the governors, we are setting up restricted areas. There are many licenses that have been rehabilitated. We can actually send two of them to your addresses in digital space, about their old state and their new state. I'm not going to read the questions very much; just to read the information, I'm saying to better use my time: by the end of January, 7,202 search licenses, 13.424 business licenses, 20,626 total licenses; 9,080 licenses, 8,418 in terms of those operating in 2013, are also available in 5.827. And so 2,406 calls and 866 business licenses were cancelled in 2014. With regard to the Prime Minister's General Assembly, there are 6,118 licenses, 2,212 positive views, 2,682 negative views, and 1,224 waiting, as of the end of January. Especially in underground coal companies, redevance contracts are being terminated. They were asked to be terminated by the opposition, without any private sector-public distinctions. We've asked that only the public's redevans businesses need to remain, and that the cancellation of a redevance operation from private to private should be included in this draft of the law. In fact, this can be seen as a process of increasing measures in terms of life and property safety and increasing the responsibility of the owner of the license. It's not the first time I've said that the public is going to withdraw from the production industry, that it's going to step down gradually, that I'm going to say it on different grounds. But what's important is that it's being done by increasing the measures related to job safety and job health. At the same time, the regulations and organisation of the law that is under way by our Ministry of Labor. In the same context, a similar arrangement by our Ministry was also needed for this kind of arrangement, which would lead to conflict in terms of duty and authority, issues related to occupational health and safety. Besides, every field was called at least one mining engineer, permanent custodian's obligation... to end the duties of the Maden engineers? On the contrary, when this law was discussed in particular in the Commission, there was a debate about whether or not the mining engineers would be enough for them, whether we had enough engineers. Of course, we're also targeting more safety and safety of goods related to occupational health and safety by providing permanent supervision obligations. We all have the right, dear friends, to ask that the real and corporate people who are not particularly competent in the underground coal business be prevented from operating. And since we've been taking into account the complaints, we've been doing some work on it. In order to increase the safety of lives and goods in the minefields, basin mining was also widely requested. That's what we're doing. Authorized corporate personalities are being created, and the nature of them has all been carried out together in the bill. Did the circuit take place? In fact, with new provisions added to the Mining Law, the part of the registration cost that corresponds to 30 per cent will be kept in the collateral account for environmental integration studies. This is an important development. Here we talked about a clause that would carry out the obligations of license holders who didn't keep their stoves in line with the environment, and we also talked about the environmental impacts and measures related to them in the 7th article. Of course, along with the new provisions added here, many issues related to partial environmental harmony were discussed. I have to tell you once again that the requested information, especially the list of miners, was sent to the e-mail address of our member of parliament on January 16, 2015. That is to say, if any of our other congressman friends have demands, please, if they give us e-mail addresses by the end of their negotiations here, we can send them to all of our friends. Meanwhile, some of our ministers asked if their son and groom had taken it. I don't have a list of grooms and sons right now. I can only say they didn't buy it about my own son-in-law. If you give me that list, we can still do research from amongst them. It's about calcium, dolomite, calculus, granite, what's all this, what's the joke? It's not in the same group as rocks and radioactive mines. That's what we specifically said. The rocks, such as calcium, dolomite, calculus, granite, andesite, basalt, 2 (a) and 2 (c) were identified, while radioactive minerals such as uranium and thorium are found in group 4 (c). Of course, this ministry or the minister, he actually asked that the official be corrected along with a motion from our friends from the opposition party. And since it didn't make much difference to us, we agreed. And let me just say once again that the authority in the ministry can't be separated from the authority of the minister who runs that ministry. Of course there are technological developments in the mines. I'm just passing through. With public tenders, differences in the new situation will be met. The coal productions of the bags in the legislatures related to the rights of the worker and then to the rights of the employer. Of course, I have to say, it's only for the public, the relevant. The private sector can only be assessed under free market conditions. It was asked here whether the opinions of the engineering rooms were accepted or not. Everyone knows that we've all worked together in the Commission, that we've had a meeting together before, and in the study of regulations, I also mentioned that it would be met again with NGOs and mining engineers' rooms and other relevant engineering rooms, and that it would go to the Commissioners. The price of the search was discussed at the price of the license. The price of the base's registration was set at $1,000, and the business licenses amounted to $10,000. I want to say once again that the allowance and the collateral are no higher than that price, that the friends who are going to take into account these costs are here.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0207par0161	Mr. Secretary, would you please...
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0206par0162	License prices were transferred gradually, depending on license areas, in order for those with a certain capital to be able to perform their requested safety activities. Dear friends, I can answer the answers of the remaining 21 friends at any moment when I'm given time. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0208par0165	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0209par0166	Mr. President, please give Mr. Secretary time.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0208par0167	The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the joke found below before the first joke of Article 37 of Article 19 of the 863 Section 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Attila Kart Sakine Öz Kemal Çığürmenderelı Doğan Şaş "The request for the duration of the search can be accepted by the General Director's Office if the owner cannot meet his obligations due to circumstances or unexpected circumstances until he has received a business license and has received a business permit." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 19 of Article 37 of Mining Law No. 3213 be removed from the bill's text. Erol Dora İdris Bauken İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0210par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0208par0189	I'm reading the reason: The irrational motive approach is very vague, and it is open to the abuse of capital, which is the sole goal of profit. In economic recession, conjunctural and sectoral setbacks, it will be possible to stop production and maintain the permit. The abandonment of this permit to the General Directorate's initiative is fixed by the AKP's nearly 13-year power, which will make the privileges granted to the secondary capital inevitable. With change, these possible problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the joke found below before the first joke of Article 37 of Article 19 of the 863 Section 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends The request for the duration of the search can be accepted by the General Manager's Office if the owner of the permit cannot meet the obligations of the license, due to reasons or unexpected circumstances, until he has received a business license." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0211par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0208par0203	Mehmet Hilal Kaplan is the MP of Kokueli who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0212par0205	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Mining Law is one of the key laws in Turkey. Its importance concerns many areas. Like taking advantage of underground wealth, controlling, protecting underground water basins, and making raw materials for energy sources. It's also important for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry because it includes agriculture and water basins. Although this bill is of interest to many ministries, I would like to express in particular the passing of certain substances from the Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, the Ministry of Forestry, with any motion. Dear lawmakers, one of the key elements of the Mining Law is the quarry that often comes up with environmental problems. The changes made in the Mining Law in 2004 led to the removal of the quarry licenses under the Environmental Law and the release of them by governorates and state's private administrations. The negativity is that many of the forest fields, meadows, machis, and green areas have been transformed into a mushroom nest in the assessment of stone furnaces. Minister, during your administration, 85,000 quarry licenses have been issued in the last 11 years. I'm aware that the dynamite that was detonated to remove stones from any quarry caused an earthquake violence around 4.2-3.6, causing both the quake and the underground waters to disappear. According to Article 43 of our Constitution, the state maintains the values of its historical and cultural assets. Again, on Article 45, it has a duty to prevent the use of fields and meadows without purpose, to provide plant and animal production. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, about the quarry, and I've just asked you in particular, one of the troubled provinces is our province of Kopeeli. Our province of Kopeeli, TEM, E5, and the last one to be built is a very rich event from stone furnaces for some reason in the region to form the raw structure of the North Anatolian Highway, which is the sequel to the third bridge. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to show you this picture. Every day, as we go to Istanbul, a quarry is located right next to Gebze's tollbooths, a place with several quarryes. Now, this quarry has been in the family for about 25 years. As citizens of the Gebze region, in particular, the district of Hereke, the governorship has decided that as a citizen, we as civil society organisations will go from time to time to time to disease, pollution, dust, noise, the explosion of dynamite -- as it is seen in the picture -- when our complaint petitions from the location of the TOKI's dwellings are frequented by the ministry, the governorship has decided that the quarry must go from here to a collective location. I asked the governor's office about the location of the quarry, which would go from the Information Act. He didn't give us the location of the destination in any way, Mr. Secretary. He gave me his coordinates. I got their coordinates, showed them a trace on a mapmaker. This is the location of the quarry in Gebze and Hereke, which has been parselized on about 500 acres of land in my vision, as it is north of the North Anatolia Highway. So today, if we're in the north of the OSBs of Dilova, it's all a forest area, including five of our villages. Now, because of the arrival of the industrial region, villages such as Balık, Pelitli, Denizli, Rabbit, and Mollafenari remained in the industry. Even if you count the villages of Dilovah, the villages of Kuses, the Tepechite, and Tepeçik, are in the industrial villages. Now, with these quarryes, the information that you're talking about or the governorship gives, given by the Ministry, in accordance with the research of MTA. If that's true, five of the remaining eight villages will be trapped under industrial or stone furnaces. The forest areas are disappearing, the green area is disappearing, villages are no longer villages. Mr. Secretary, in particular, if this area is OSB and the stone is OSB, then the villagers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to ask you to follow up on whether or not their opinion should be taken, whether or not the CED assessment should be taken. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0213par0216	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the 683 Orders 3213 Mining Law shall be changed to the "Ministership to General Manager" in the frame of Article 20. Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Doğan Gündüz Sakine Öz Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following statement to the end of Article 20 of Article 46 of Mining Law, section 683. The costs for these lines cannot be reflected as a burden to the public." Nursel Aydoğdu Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0214par0236	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0213par0237	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to make it clear that license holders will be charged with these costs. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the 683 Orders 3213 Mining Law shall be changed to the "Ministership to General Manager" in the frame of Article 20. Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0215par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0213par0249	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0216par0252	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on our motion in Article 20 of the Law Against Mining Act 683, and on the amendment to some Laws. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I salute you all. My dear friends, in my earlier speech, I suggested that the laws of energy privatisation were made on purpose in order not to apply the Court's decision, and the laws against the Constitution were deliberately passed. My dear friends, one of them is related to the free Oymapınar Dam, which has been privatised for 305 million dollars, and from this dam until now, the amount of energy sold is 2 billion Turkish liras. That's a terrible number. The law has been passed so that this cannot be returned, and the summary of this law is this: The Council of Ministers determines whether or not the decision made by the State shall be carried out regarding the cancellation of the privatisation. My dear friends, look, this has even broken the Constitution of Law 6300, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Justice and Development Party rule. Not only that, this law was annulled due to violation of the Constitution. This time, again, this Mehmet Genghis and his company passed another special law, so that it would not be possible to get these money back. This law, Law No. 6552, will not be carried out after five years of surrender to the subject of the state-owned institution. My dear friends, look, these are abuses of legislature. I would like to warn my friends of the Justice and Development Party that one of the most fundamental rules in all the world's legal systems is that abuse of rights cannot be protected by the law. Everyone is obliged to follow the rules of good faith when they exercise their rights and fulfill their obligations. It is a violation of Article 138 of the Constitution, which knowingly violates the Constitution. Because the Constitutional Court is to render their decisions ineffective. My dear friends, Mehmet Genghis is still going to run this place for 40 years, and he's going to get about $10 billion, or $10 quadrillion more. They'll get the money that's supposed to be in the public pocket. My dear friends, this is an abuse of legal authority. I'm warning you from here, this court doesn't make laws, my dear friends, that the legislature doesn't apply. This has nothing to do with the law. My dear friends, look, we just said, "What are these extraordinary things happening?" See what it's called in that bill that comes to Parliament in the coming days of the Prime Minister's signature, which is to be discussed very soon: the courts, the consumer arbitration committees, if they decide to extradite on the electric bills, the distribution companies reflect those prices on the tariffs. You're bringing this, it can't happen! So the corporations will reassess what they paid the citizen by court order through electricity bills. Isn't that brilliant, guys, how brilliant? So the citizen who goes to court will win the case, get his money back, and then he'll pay the lawyer's fee back to the same company with the electric bill. So what does this have to do with logic, intelligence, law, my dear friends? How could something like this come here, this is coming to the High Council, it's nothing to think of. It's making fun of people's minds, friends. I mean, these court-ordered proceedings will come back to you one day as electrical road-water. You'll come back, you'll pay for it. The world is no longer in power, my dear friends. The Justice and Development Party will go one day, but those accounts won't stay in the courtroom. It's a shame you're taking credit for this privatisation. This is where you spend the money for our children's dorms and scholarships, going to these companies. My dear friends, look, the legislature itself here, if it abuses its right to live, it stinks of salt in that country. We're warning you from here, so please fix this. Do not maintain these violations of the Constitution. I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0217par0262	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the joke, which is held with article 21 in the framework of the current 683 Order 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesam Doğan Günah Sakine Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar The public-run activities in the Fine Coal Basin are not subject to fiscal provisions, except for the defamation of the Law and its share of private management and its share of bringing services to villages, but are exempt from the rights and the rights of the State. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0218par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0219par0277	Mr. Akar will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0217par0278	Your signature is not in the motion, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0220par0279	Read the motion and sign the motion accordingly. Did you see what he signed?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0217par0280	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0221par0281	Mr. President, I've seen what I've signed, Mr. Group Vice President, but the ministers don't know what they're signing. Why did I say that? Because for the past two days, we've had two very abnormal incidents at the CIT Commission. One is the D.C. Gas incident, and the other is the Kütahya Sugar Factory incident. First, the Kütahya Sugar Factory is privatized. While the Kütahya Sugar Factory is being privatized, a 112-acre land deed to the Candy Factory is being manipulated by the Toruns who bought the Kütahya Sugar Factory, and the Grandkids are getting food. You know the Grandkids Food, the Prime Minister's imam-member, the company that makes obeisance to the head, but thinks more of the conservative's profit, such a company. Now, it's been interesting, we've talked about it, we've been talking about it for three or four years, but the next day, the capital came up with natural gas, and the grandkids came up in the capital gas. The grandkids -- you know -- a $1.5 billion capital then bought natural gas for $1,162 billion, then bought it, became Ankara Metropolitan, had the right to distribute 2 million cubic metres more natural gas, so the conditions changed. But we came across something very interesting, something that belonged to the EGO, a 200 million-dollar building in Ankara's capital, and the Toruns' Foods, again, put it in their account, with an allele, with a deed on the deed. Yeah, what a great guy, what a smart guy! Members of the Council of Ministers, Your Honor, I don't think you know what you're signing, what privatisations you're signing.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0222par0283	I mean, she's even mated the gravitas!
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0221par0284	Now, Melih Gökçek has rebelled, I. Melih, the tweet Melih, he rebelled, he sued, he canceled the verdict, he got it, but we couldn't save Kütahya from the Toruns. Let's see what else is under here, I'm curious. Now, I'm going to tell you another story. You privatized 21 power distribution companies, you pocketed the money after privatizing it, those distribution companies are just collectors. In my last speech, I told him how he collects, how they serve poorly, how they leave people in the cold. Now, there's another story here. While these companies are privatizing, the distribution companies are privatizing, it turns out the funds in their safes are missing, bank accounts. Meram Electric, for example. In his bank accounts, the TEDAS General Directorate, including the money in the road, showed it as $4,435, and twelve days later, the money in the bank -- which they called "the money" -- reached 30 million. I'm just giving you an example here. This example, we've said over and over again in these power distribution companies that this corruption was done, that the counters weren't read before they were privatized, that the numbers in their bank accounts were wrong. He's been on this stand many times: we don't have that kind of thing. We have faith in God. Such mistakes do not happen. He allowed the state to be robbed by linking everything with religion, by linking everything with morality. Yeah, yeah, that's what he said in his speeches. Every time he spoke here, he threatened us: there is a list of your friends. I can explain your friends' demands for energy here. He said. One said, two said, and the third cried out: "Come to the stand, and tell us what our friend has requested." It turns out this Minister has us all marked up, our friends. He came, gave us a list of a friend's demands. And he did, in humility, just give it to the band presidents. And our friend came along, and he said, "I have this request, like all merchants, like the people who did all this work, but you didn't give one license." But I'll tell him the demands from the AKP. Despite what he said, I'll send them to him. Despite what he said, he didn't send them to any of his deputies. Mr. Secretary, we'd like you to send the AKP lawmakers to us as well. You promised this demand to the people where you live. You brought our friend's request in a list, printed out, but what did you tell us when we asked for the AKP people? He's not ready. E, he's ready, he's not ready. What kind of logic? It's hard to understand that logic. Now, dear friends, indeed Turkey is being robbed and robbed by your government channel. We know about the robbers, and you know it. As you know, 60 of your friends put their hands on their consciences and they didn't approve of it, and you know it.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0223par0289	That didn't happen, that didn't happen.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0224par0290	Put your hand on your conscience, Haydar.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0221par0291	I know you're not on this road. That's why I want you to supervise this government. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0225par0294	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 22nd article of the same nature, so I'm going to read it and process it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the phrase "haric" found in Article 22 of the current 683 Orders 3213 Mining Law be changed. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sakine Öz Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Osman Aydın Kemal Değirmenderelı Haluk Eyidoğan The signatures of the second motion are: İdris Bauken Erol Dora İstiye Birtane The signatures of the third motion of the same nature: Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0226par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0225par0320	Let's read the reason in order. The arrangement aims to prevent a major part of the mining accidents from contracting a reödössance agreement with public institutions and institutions, such as other businesses. With this arrangement, the violation of the principle of equality of our Constitution will also be resolved. I'm having him read the second reason. These organisations should be subject to the same action, given that a significant portion of mining accidents are owned by public institutions, institutions, and partnerships, but have occurred in businesses under reödövence agreements. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP, who wants to speak on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0227par0329	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 22 of Mining Law No. 683. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this clause allows only public institutions and institutions and their participation to be allowed to operate through redevance. And one of the things that's a little further is that this bag of paper from September 11th is also able to pay the price difference to compensate for the problems of the law on underground mining, the damage done by businesses in public institutions and corporations, or to compensate for the harm done by this law -- other friends just mentioned -- but that is not possible for the private sector in the same situation. In the question section, Mr. Secretary has just said that the harm of the private sector in the bag of legislation will be resolved in the free market conditions. Now, Mr. Secretary, we also have to express with open heart that the private sector means we're not going to compensate for its victims, if I'm not mistaken. Why is that? Because, unfortunately, we can't see a step in this, a step in a couple of commissions going parallel, any motion, any will. Look, dear friends, Mr. Secretary, you know these figures very well, how much coal did we import in 2014 when I asked Mr. Economy Minister? As of September 2014, we paid for about $4 billion in coal imports at the end of December 2.3. Dear friends, our payment on coal imports in 2014 is $4.6 billion. The total amount of all of our mining exports in 2013 is $3 billion,879 million. I mean, one's 2014, one's 2013, but I know there's no big difference between 2014 and 2013 in the number of coal imports. So, we export all the marble, we export the chromium; what we export is 3 billion, 890 million, not the coal we import, dear friends. Here we will support the local coal companies, which the Minister has always said of willfully. It's true, but how will we support them? We can't see the answer to that, the actual reflection of that, the will, I'm afraid. So, the next time you get a chance, Mr. Secretary, in this review speech here, is really waiting for you to explain how the private sector will be dealt with, Mr. Secretary. Another thing, friends, environmental issues. We also talk about environmental harmony, but one of the things that is important here is the support that we need to give to burn technologies that are particularly environmentally compatible. They called me on the phone, Mr. Secretary, and I'm cut off from my electricity debt. He's on his way to get the endorsement, and our farmer citizen turns out he's been cut off from his electricity debt, and the power distribution company took over his money. ▪ This is a private company, and how does it seize my money? If tomorrow's Arcelik dealership deals with the government, is he going to let me back it up again? Mr. Minister of Agriculture was just here. He's gone. I mean, I think it's the Minister of Agriculture who's dealing with it, but it's also our responsibility to take care of these kind of victims. With these thoughts, I pay tribute to the High Council. I'm probably the last speaker. I bid you good night.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0228par0336	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I read the motions on Article 23 concerning Article 10: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the declaration of "work rooms and relevant NGOs" to come after the declaration of "Work and Social Security Ministry" issued under Article 23 of the current 683 Order 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesame Namik Havutça Kemal Millendereli Born Dawn Sakine Öz Attila Kart Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the introduction of the "positive views of relevant public institutions and occupational rooms" to come after the declaration of "the implementation of this law" in the first verse of Article 3213, which stipulates to add additional Article 3283 to the Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the current 683 Orders "The Law of Manden and the Law to Change Some Laws." We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. "The regulations for the implementation of this Law are prepared and implemented by the Ministry, receiving positive views of the relevant public institutions and institutions and professional rooms." Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0229par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0228par0363	I'm reading the reason: The regulations under this law are intended to be prepared and enforced by the Ministry in accordance with the views of the relevant institutions, institutions and professional rooms. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the introduction of the "positive views of relevant public institutions and occupational rooms" to come after the declaration of "the implementation of this law" in the first verse of Article 3213, which stipulates to add additional Article 3283 to the Law. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0230par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0228par0375	I'm reading the reason: The removal of the views of the directly relevant parties to implement the law will allow for the initial removal of the problems that can be experienced in practice. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the declaration of "work rooms and relevant NGOs" to come after the declaration of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security under Article 23 of the current 683 Section 3213 Mining Law. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0231par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit05spe0228par0387	I'm reading the reason: The drafting of regulations aims to draw up the positive views of NGOs. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 11 of Article 23: Those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a two-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-29sit06spe0228par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The Turkish Armed Forces are about to support international efforts in the fight against Pirates, Sea Bandits and Armed Robbery Actions, given by Turkey's Grand National Assembly on the basis of the Constitution, Time and Time and Time Government, Aden Bay, Somali Blackwaters and Offshore, the Prime Minister's Office in the Arab Sea and Mujavir Areas, and to discuss the necessary arrangements in order to meet with the Commission on February 3rd, and to meet with the Commission on July 15th, on the basis of the Commission's decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
