tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. First word off the agenda... My fellow lawmakers, now three of our fellow lawmakers are preparing to speak off the agenda. It'd be great if we could lighten this hum in the General Assembly. The first unscheduled statement is from Erzincan MP Sebahattin Karakelle, who asked for a speech on the 97th anniversary of Erzincan's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the 97th anniversary of the rescue of our beloved lawmakers from enemy occupation. I salute your high council. On this meaningful day, I congratulate you on the festivals of my Erzincan countrymen and my Tercan countrymen, whose salvation will be celebrated on February 17th. February 13th is the day when thousands of Erzincan braves shed their blood and gave their lives to the foundations of the state of the Republic of Turkey that had been rebuilt over the ashes of the burned, destroyed Anatolia. As Master Necip Fazil calls out to these braves, he says: "Let what is left of what is beyond death be ashamed." With this great understanding, from yesterday to today, I wish God's mercy to our martyrs who have fallen into the land without blinking an eye, and a long life to our veterans. I give thanks and mercy to all of your comrades, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has given us back our glorious front for our future and future struggle. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Erzincan, your land is dear to you, Erzincan, and your place is for the brave, Erzincan, our poet says. Yes, throughout history, he has hosted many civilizations, Yavuz Sultan Selim Khan, Sultan Mehmet Han of Fatih Mehmet Khan, our Erzincan, occupied by the Russians after the First World War, handed over to Armenian bandits after their withdrawal. It's been almost a century since the Russians and Armenian killings. Not in a century, but in a few centuries, our great nation will never forget the pain of those days in the flesh of Erzincan and Erzincan. With our power, a new Turkey and Erzincan, growing, growing political, social, economic, and growing, are also growing, taking its share of development. In education, in health, in agriculture, in tourism, in transport, in security, there are very important investments. In health care, our residents are now receiving the most severe surgeries such as heart surgery, angiograms, at our Training and Research Hospital, not only our province, but 17,000 patients on average, including the environment. And hopefully the foundation for our 200-bed construction will be thrown out this year. Our Erzincan university is moving rapidly towards the vision of a world university in the east. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the city of the union, the city of the brotherhood, the land of the souls, Erzincan, have received over 5 billion investments and supports in the public sector, especially with our power in the last 13 years. In education, our schools in our cities and districts are equipped with the education technologies the age requires, 649 new classrooms have been provided. In addition to the DAP and GAP projects, the crane meadow dam, which continues rapidly, will meet with water on 149,000 per cent of our land. With urban transformation and TOKI practices, our province has received 8,643 new dwellings. The construction of a white meat chicken integrated facility, capable of 8,000 cuts per hour, is rapidly under the workforce of the Meat and Milk Foundation, which I believe will create large added value and employment. In the event of all these investments, I thank and thank Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the founder of our party, the leader of our cause, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, our Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, who has taken over the flag of service to our nation for new Turkey, to our ministers, and to our former Minister of Transport Maritime and Communications, Mr. Burili Yıldırım. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this thousand-year-old geography, where our common history, our common culture, has made us brothers, no one must be able or will not be able to disrupt our unity and unity. With these thoughts and thoughts, on the day of salvation, I salute my fellow saints with respect and conversation, and I pay my respects to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP who asked for a speech on the anniversary of the liberation of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. President, I have been promised as part of the 95th anniversary of the rescue of our heromarash from enemy occupation. I salute your high council. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, ninety-five years ago today, foreign forces began to invade Anatolia, but unfortunately they failed. First the British occupied Kahramanmarash on 22 February 1919, then the French on 29 October 1919. The French have done great atrocities to Kahramanmarash, but under this persecution the people of Kahramanmarash have successfully risen and defended the city and managed to escape the French. And again, ninety-five years ago, the people of Kahramanmarash, in one heart, said to us, "Marash is no laughing without a tomb." And they began to fight the French with this philosophy. The first battle of independence was fought by the people of Kahramanmarash from Kahramanmarash. There are two events that are the key to our heromarash's salvation these days, ninety-five years ago. One of them is the hand handed to the Turkish woman, the bullet fired at French soldiers by the Milkman Imam. Second, the flag thing. After seeing the French flag waving at Kahramanmarash Castle of Kahramanmarash, the people gathered at our Grand Mosque to perform their Friday prayer at the time, our professors at the time use the same phrase: It is not necessary to say Friday prayer while the foreign flag is waving in the country. After that, the people of Kahramanmarash struggle with the French for twenty-two days, twenty-two nights, with the technology at the time, with the bins, with the pickaxes, with the shovels, and with the stuffed rifles. This Battle of Salvation, this struggle by Kahramanmarash, has been passed down to the world literature. After giving up this Salvation War, the French have to leave Kahramanmarash. Again, when the people of Kahramanmarash have driven the French out of Kahramanmarash, their fight is not over, as it is today, they are running to the surrounding provinces to help them with their salvation. February 12th is the wedding of our heromarash, the feast, the right pride, because it is the day when an occupied city struggles with its own ability to free itself from foreign states. Today is the wedding of Kahramanmarash. This wedding to Heromarash, may the holidays be blessed. This is the wedding of Kahramanmarash, which continues with great events, as it has always been, in every period, but we are looking at this struggle that Kahramanmarash has been fighting for the flag for the past 12 years, this struggle for the name of the tyrant, this struggle for the savior, and this struggle for the savior. No flag, no people, no name, no savior, no name. Negotiations are being held where foreign forces and terrorists should be fought. The flag is called the Turkish flag, the nation's name is the Turkish nation, and the savior's name is the Grand Leader Ataturk. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Giresun MP Selahtin Karaahmetoglu, who wants to talk about the problems of Giresun Province. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, members of parliament, as is our province of Erzincan on February 13th, my birthplace is also the day of salvation in Giresun. That's why I'm celebrating the day of my fellow citizens' salvation. I've been promised to tell you about the problems of Giresun Province. The province of Giresun is one of the major provinces of the Eastern Black Sea region, which is undeveloped in industry, whose economy is agriculturally weighted, but in return for its social quality, level, culture level and natural beauty. The province of Giresun is at the head of our most martyred provinces in the National Liberation War, although the province of Giresun has not seen an enemy invasion, and it is also a province that gives Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (42) the 42nd and 47th Guard regiments. During the 12-year period of AKP power, Giresun's economy suffered significant losses. It's the lifeblood of the Giresun economy that's at the beginning of this. From 2,521 employees to 160 employees today. The SECA paper factory has been shut down, lost a factory capable of employing 1,500 workers. At the same time, the private sector's food, nuts, and integrated facility, which has a capacity for 800 workers, unfortunately closed down, while small-scale nut-cracking factories were closed down in Giresun. Again, three private-source flour factories have had to be shut down. The Forestry Company garage has been shut down, the Coast Guard has been removed, the Development Bank has been removed and the Port of Giresun has been privatised. Even though the port of Giresun is the third largest port of the Black Sea region, it is unfortunately being used as a parking lot today. In order for Giresun Harbor to gain functionality, it must take up the port of customs. There was no serious employment at this time, and 15,000 people were unemployed in Giresun, and the population of Giresun was reduced between 110,120,000, and the migration in Giresun came seriously. For Giresun's problems to be resolved, some infrastructures must be made. At the beginning is the Erzincan-Torul-Tirebolu-Trabzon railway. This road needs to be done, and the Tirepoli railway will be a railway network that will contribute substantially to the country's economy in terms of both economic and distance-wise tunnels and lack of the number of viaducts. The 25km of Giresun's segregation is not enough. It is important for the economy of Giresun to reach Suşehir and Sivas, and to travel from here to Central Asia, Iran, and also to reach the Mediterranean. Giresun has medical school, which unfortunately does not have a hospital. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. Also, there are 70 foreign-owned markets in Giresun. Because of these markets, Giresun's tradesmen face death, economic death. In 2012, Giresun had 2,423 files, 15368 files without notice. I'd also like to point out that we still haven't been able to answer our question proposal for this issue in 2014. The number of trades in social security is 6,740, and the amount of debt is 96 million 231,268 TL. Despite the development of an institution to improve the development of cities, Giresun did not contribute to the development of neighbouring provinces, and unfortunately, he counted where Giresun was. Tourism Master Plan Giresun should also be considered again. The poor people of Giresun, who were called by the late Uður Mumcu, have become poorer today. And Giresun is different from our province of Hakkari just by the sea. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you. Now, according to the 60th article, I'm fulfilling very short commitment demands. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. As in all parts of our country, health staff working in the town of Tokat are in a great deal of trouble. The violence of medical personnel in particular has now reached unbearable levels. Violence is increasing. Violence against health staff must be prevented and the necessary legal arrangements must be made, and the laws must be enforced without prejudice. In addition, health personnel suffer from inadequacies, severe seizures, challenges in the field are unbearable. Besides, it's getting heavy when they don't have enough resources. In addition, medical staff are afraid of retiring due to very little pay. Returning capital shares taken by health personnel also arise when there are not enough percentages of pensions and times left unaccounted for. The government and Parliament are expected to make arrangements to assist the health staff in their rights to violence. He says we invite the authorities to hear the voices of these hard-working and selfless people and to do what is necessary, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0010par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the unemployment rate in Mersin is 13 per cent. The rate is 3-4 points above the Turkish average. In 2011, unemployment was 9.2 per cent, while today it was 12.4. Every day, many of our citizens call us for work, and some of them even commit suicide. Why is unemployment increasing in Mersin? Because in many ways the AKP government has punished Mersin, and has blocked investments in Mersin. For example, the port of Mersin was prevented from growing. For example, the organizational industrial zone has been prevented from connecting to the highway. Çukurova Airport was promised an election, not made. The route to Mersin-Antalia was promised as a choice, not made. Now, the AKP will come in the election season and cook them up and put them in public again, but our people won't eat them. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0011par0077	Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mayor. I address the government, its ministries, its municipalities: Do not fill the forests, the water basins, the coasts, the trees, the woods, and the urban green areas and the squares with concrete, do not allow wild construction to destroy the environment by the hands of looters and looters. Let's leave our children and grandchildren places to live and cities. Don't take credit for those who destroy our nature and our cities with piles of concrete that spoil the Siluet and poison our air. Don't ruin the identities of the cities. Instead of making plans for habitable locations, block the planners of planned destruction and destruction. We don't want the right to build, we want the right to live, we don't want the brand cities, we want the ID cities. We want the transformation to be done with the public. We don't want racing cities, we want sharing cities. We don't want building design, we want life design. We want our neighborhood. We want green cities, we want healthy cities. We want playgrounds. We want fresh air and water. Projects and investments are for people and for a better life, not for ruining nature. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting through you. On February 4, 2015, during a visit to my constituency in the districts of Bursa, a racing citizen in Iznik County claimed that in horse racing, well-used horses were being rushed and won the race. Is such a situation in question? Has there ever been a race where punished horses run? Would you consider a study of it, a study of it? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0015par0087	Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our teachers at the Ministry of National Education have been acting on the grounds that watch duties are a chore, not being on guard duty for nearly a month. This action includes all trade unions in the education-work division; education you, Turkish education-SEN, education-work, ACTIF education-SEN. In fact, the duties of teachers in the National Education Act 1739 have been counted on the basis of the law, which does not include the duty of a watch. Teachers are a non-refundable chore... that even in international law is a practice that the public officials shouldn't do. I'd like to address our Minister of National Education, who was just here. For months at the Ministry of National Education, our teachers at schools have been presenting their right demands for this. Does your ministry plan to place this duty as a chore on a legal basis, on a paid basis? It is our teachers' request that by giving instructions on this, by making legal arrangements, I.e. the charge be paid, and this is a righteous request, a demand for international law. That's why I'm asking the Minister to fix this...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to bring to your attention the long-term blackouts that have been happening in most of our southern provinces, possibly in every region of Turkey, and in recent days, I'd like to draw the attention of the ministers. Turkey is making the lives of Syrian and Iraqi refugees who have taken refuge in our country uninhabitable, as it victimises electricity cuts, industry, trades, farmer, and farmers. In these harsh winter conditions, I bring to the attention of the government and Assembly in particular all of Turkey's suffering because of power cuts in the snow under the tent, which is heated by electricity, fueled by electricity, burned his stove with it, and cooked his vaccine with it. I urge caution, immediate caution. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0019par0098	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0020par0100	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, tomorrow is the anniversary of our heromarash. On February 12, 1920, our heromarash survived the French occupation. One of the first places where the torch of the struggle for salvation was lit is Maraş. It is not necessary to perform Friday prayer in a place where the French flag is floating in Ridvan Hoxha's castle, in its own wisdom, in love, before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is formed. The marash, Aslan Bey, with his words, saved himself from occupation with his milkman Imam, with his teacher Ridvan, and many other unknown heroes, whose name we cannot name. In fact, not only Maraş... but to be a nation... but to be a member of the Republic, to be a member of the United States, to be a member of the United States... to be a great example of the struggle of Yemen, Aleppo, Libyan, Benghazi, Tajura, Tajura, all around the same nation... to be dedicated to the same nation, to be in love, to be in love, to be embraced by our brothers, martyrs, to be in doubt, to be a heromarash, to be in fact, to be a great example of that day's struggle. Tomorrow Kahramanmarash will have a wedding. With a sense of history again, like every February 12th, the hero will remember that day, remember his independence, remember the bliss of living in the shadow of the flag, and know it. With these feelings, I also remember my grandfather Ali Hafizoğlu Mehmet Efendi, one of the veterans who fought at Mercimek Tepe. I'm celebrating today.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0021par0103	Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0022par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, this government said that before the last election, it would make Tokat (a 4T) famous, which was not trade, agriculture, tourism and promotion. One by one, the merchants of Tokat are sinking one by one in the trade. Farmers don't harvest their crops anymore because they don't pay. Did the government succeed in tourism? How did he succeed? He provided a tourism operation in Tokat, making it Turkey's 2nd most migratory province. In the introduction, the Tokat Credit Day, which the Tokat NGOs themselves planned to do in Istanbul, by organizing and working, by providing their own funding, was unfortunately cancelled due to pressure from power. All the NGOs in Istanbul, all the people who like Tokat, are on alert, rioting. We ask the government to remove this pressure. At least let the slappers introduce it. It's obvious you're not going to do any good. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0023par0108	Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0024par0110	Mr. President, at our Giresun School for Special Education Professional Education, 105 of our students are educated at a light level of disability, 70 of our students are medium, heavy and autistic disabled. The school urgently needs a gym, a car, a van and an interschool elevator, and I'm announcing it to the relevant ministry. Also, there is a need for a hall with sufficient capacity for theatre, conference and all other education, culture, art activities in Giresun, a friend of art and art activities that has been under way for centuries, and I would like to inform the minister of that. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0025par0113	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0026par0115	Mr. President, I'd also like to ask Mr. Secretary of Defense, who is here through you, that you have initiated the Bedelli military exercise and made our friends happy, who have been waiting for some price, and that you have received a certain amount of money from the vault. I've shared it with you before: People who can't afford it, but who leave their jobs at a young age, have only the right to pay off their time in the military and make them count their time in debt and retirement. These people serve the government. Just because they don't have the money, I think the state should pay for their time in the military and quit their jobs. At this point, you have your source, and it's best to pay the price of insurance for these people, and it's a measure of right. It is imperative that the insurance of these people, who do this work with a sense of national service and who have the power to do it, should be covered by the state's budget. I expect you to come to a conclusion with your good intentions.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0025par0117	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0027par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Adana, one of Turkey's most advanced provinces, has become one of Turkey's most unemployed cities in unemployment today, losing blood every day in agriculture and trade, especially as a result of the 13-year policies of the AKP's government. Its industry has been severely hit by the latest incentive law, becoming a city without new investments, which, by the way, is going through a very difficult period in credit card use and repayment; it has become a city where subcontractorisation is common. In June 2011, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan promised 11 in Station Square. Although in 2007, President Abdullah Gul and Recep Tayyip Erdogan stated that the region would become an energy reserve and become a city where tens of thousands of people would have jobs, it became a city with no activity.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit01spe0028par0122	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As to the reasons for not showing places such as Diyarbakir, Mardin, Midyat and Batman-Hasankeyf in the areas of cultural and tourism protection and development, I would like to submit to the opening of Parliamental research on the grounds of the 98th and 104th and 105th Amendment articles of the Constitution. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The Ministry of Tourism and Culture has identified some areas of Turkey as tourist centres and the Charter of Culture and Tourism and Development and Tourism Centres. The cultural and tourism protection and development area in this regulation are regions where historical and cultural values are densely involved and are declared by the Ministry's proposal and by the Council of Ministers to assess the borders in order to protect, use, use, sectoral development and ensure planned development in areas where tourism potential is high. Culture and tourism development areas consist of 28 different locations. These include five separate regions from Antalya; two regions from Elazig, Mersin, İzmir and Rize; and one from the provinces of Samsun, the Army and Sakarya. When we look at other cities on the list, unfortunately we only see our province of Şanlıurfa from the Southeast Anatolian region. In particular, the reasons why our cities, such as Diyarbakır, Mardin, Midyat and Batman, have very important historical and tourist sites, should not be included in these tourist and development zones should be made clear. Mardin is on the UNESCO World Heritage Temporal List. It will also be applied for in 2014. Diyarbakır Walls are known as the tallest walls in the world after the Walls of China. The districts, such as Midyat and Hasankeyf, lead the number of tourist sites in Turkey with historical and urban structures. I would like to request that two separate regions from Rize be placed on this list, and in order to investigate the reasons why none of the areas we consider are included in the Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Zone. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 22 October 2011, a number of people were killed as a result of the conflicts in Hakakari's Kazan Valley. One of the most important claims mentioned in the conflict is that chemical weapons were used in these conflicts. Again, another claim is that when the soldiers are in the combat zone, the military planes begin bombing. In order to investigate all these allegations and to question all the facts of the House, I would like to ask that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 104 and 105. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Mardin]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] On October 22, 2011, 36 PKK members were declared dead in the conflicts in the Kazan Valley of Kazan. According to some statements by the press at the end of the year, the soldiers lost their lives in the same conflict and were hiding them from the public. Again, confessions are alleged to have been used by chemical weapons in conflict. The unresolved Kurdish problem increases these deaths day by day. The estimated number of deaths, which have not been fully determined by the conflicts between the PKK and the state since 1984, has been estimated to have killed 50,000 people. All of these deaths took place in our geography and have a profound impact on all segments. Because of these battles over the past 28 years, the dimensions of the war are not yet fully known. The village cremation, the village evacuations in the 1990s, has also affected the construction of cities, and we are still discussing the impact of the forced migration. Again, it is not explained what methods have been used in the conflicts, but it has come to the conclusion of all areas with practices that have been ignored by the law of war. The very existence of people who die in conflict almost every day is deeply upsetting to all of us. Besides, it still hasn't been revealed how those who lost their lives in custody lost their lives. Loss in custody is another issue that has hurt society, and no work has been done on it. The lives of people who lost their lives in the conflict are a whole other problem. There are some very serious allegations that the bodies of those who lost their lives were tortured. It's difficult to predict the psychological effects of the war environment as of the moment we live. One of the most important claims in this incident in Kazan Valley is the bombing of the area where the soldiers are fighting. Allegedly, during the time of the soldiers' presence in Kazan Valley to fight the PKK members, the bombings were carried out by fighter planes and many soldiers died during the bombing. The alleged chemical weapon was also indicated that the soldiers were affected, that some soldiers were injured, and some were killed by chemical weapons. These claims are undoubtedly in need of investigation. This is merely allegations of what happened in Kazan Valley. Military suicides, also known as suspected military deaths, are a serious problem. According to the ten-year figures announced by the General Staff, 934 soldiers committed suicide. The number of soldiers lost their lives during the conflict was 834, as the Chief of Staff announced in the ten-year period. In our country, where there is conflict almost every day, it's a matter of thought that military suicides are more than soldiers who have lost their lives in combat. Whether these soldiers are really committing suicide or being killed is unclear. All facts about the conflicts in Kazan Valley must be brought to light. Again, the reasons for the loss of their lives should be investigated regarding the people who lost their lives. It is necessary to investigate all these allegations and to investigate how frequent the use of chemical weapons has been. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly EMO Diyarbakır branch on 25/07/2012, ESM Diyarbakır branch, TES-İS 1. The press statement issued by the lu branch and the IHD Diyarbakır branch to draw attention to power cuts and tension surges in the districts, particularly Diyarbakır, Mardin and Şanlıurfa, has issued a restraining order against authorities mentioned by the branches. On the grounds of this decision, I move that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Long-term power cuts in the region, especially in Diyarbakır, Mardin, Batman and Şanlıurfa, have had a negative effect on life. We have not shown enough sensitivity to the questions and parliamentary research we've already submitted on this subject, and it has been reiterated that the problem is the use of illegal electricity in the region. NGOs and officials in the region have also made statements highlighting corruption and irresponsibility involving DEDAS officials. Civic organizations responded by making deportation decisions on these individuals in the Tigris Electric Distribution Asş (DEDAŞ). Democratic mass organisations, which have been identified with their irregular activities with inspectorial reports and have been targeted by the TEDAS General Directorate, continue to sit in the office, while the problem of power cuts and tension fluctuations in the region is a joint press release. The Chamber of Electrical Engineers (EMO), the Energy, Industry and Mine Public Workers' Union (ESM) and Diyarbakir branches of Human Rights Association and TES-İSİ Diyarbakır No. 1. On July 25, 2012, the local branch's joint statement has responded with exile to demand solutions to electricity cuts and tension surges in the region, especially in Diyarbakır. EMO Diyarbakır Branch Executive Board Chairman İdris Ekmen, Vice President Murat Çelik, ESM Diyarbakır Branch Chairman Alican Çetinkaya, TES-İS-İŞ Diyarbakır No. Lu branch Secretary of Mali Hüseyin Pınar, EMO and Uður Yaka and Onursal Turgut, who were also members of ESM, were assigned to various provinces without justification on October 18, 2012. In our country where we live, another example of advanced democracy is punishable by organizations and executives who act to protect the interests of the public, only because they express their opinion. The price of wrong energy policies during the AKP administration is reflected in the loss of lives and property due to expensive and qualityless electricity presentations to electricity users, while employees are subject to a lot of pressure under the influence of executives appointed by political allies, with the lack of integrity. The reasons for such protection should be made public by the head of the TEDAS Inspection Board of Prosecutors and those of the DEDAŞ executives demanding disciplinary action. The problem of energy in the region is increasing, rather than dealing with problems, it is punishable by individuals and institutions who are working hard to address these problems. It is not only the people who are being punished here, but it is the labour and professions that seek to protect public interests by their attitude so far. The AKP's government is targeting democratic mass organisations fighting to seek rights directly. TEDAS and DEDAS, especially the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, should work overtime to solve the country's energy problems, prevent corruption and irregularities, rather than try to lower the voice of employees, labour and trade organisations. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament will hold seminars in Brussels on "International World Women's Day" on 4 March 2015, with "Political Participants in the Western Balkans and Turkey" and "Advention of Women and Girls" in Belgium's capital, Brussels. The issue of accession to these seminars is submitted to the General Assembly's approvals under the 9th Article of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Mr. President, I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0028par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In fourth place, we will begin negotiations with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0029par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0028par0007	Is something wrong?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0029par0008	I have a request before we start discussing the law.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0028par0009	Let me read it until I want to say something about the whole thing, and then we'll talk. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 685 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Yes, Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0030par0013	Mr. President, the bill of the Military Judgement Act has been set against many articles of our Constitution and the Civil Code, and has been brought to the Parliamentary General Assembly. This needs to be withdrawn because there are some regulations brought here because of the separation of both the Constitution and the forces, which connect the judiciary, and the administration is in charge of the judiciary. The administration commits crimes, the executive authority, for example, the ministry, the governor, has permission to investigate the law under his command. So since these situations are contrary to both the Constitution and the agreements that we are part of, and are contrary to Article 90, we demand that this be withdrawn, and we want to explain that.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0028par0014	Thank you. Now, then, we can have a discussion.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0030par0016	We'll have to open up a legal debate, then, yes.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0028par0017	Okay. Mr. Kaplan, it's against you. Mr. Kubat in favor. Mr. Hamzacebi, it's against you. Mr. Halaçoglu is in favor. I'll give you five minutes, so everyone can speak freely. Lehte, Mr. Kubbat, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0031par0027	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge in favor of the position of the President in the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, Mr. Hasip Kaplan has suggested that the bill will not be able to discuss it today, as it claims to be contrary to the Constitution, but it is not a valid opinion when it is considered by the Civil Code. Because a bill or proposal is organised in Articles 38, 84, 87 and 88 of the Civil Charter, which shall be examined and treated in what way the claims of violation of the Constitution shall be examined and treated. If there is such a claim in the commission phase, according to Article 38, the commissions can also do so on resen and on appeal. The Constitution has already completed its talks and reflected its decision in the report, after considering whether or not it is in direct or covertly contrary to its word and essence. Could such objections be raised in the General Assembly stage? Of course, it can be driven, but how, how it can be forwarded is also arranged in Article 87. A right and authority lawmakers were not recognised at the point of the extradition of the entire bill to the commission on charges of violation of the Constitution. According to Article 87 of Article (1), if there are no provisions contrary to the law or the Civil Code, a clause in the bill or proposal may be rejected, or a clause extradited to the commission, a amendment of a clause may be requested by the motion. I point out, if there is no rule against the laws and the Civil Code, the 88th article, titled the request of the letter or of the clause, titled "Request of the letter", or of the government, or of the bill or of the proposal, may ask that all of one or several articles be returned to the commission. The lawmakers have no authority at the point of returning the bill to the commission on the grounds of violation of the Constitution. What needs to be done here is that if the Supreme General Assembly is already being discussed here, there may be a variety of allegations of violations of the Constitution here, if the General Assembly sees these allegations as serious, it may refuse to be passed on to the articles, and it may already be recognized. After this stage has been passed, there may be motions on the matter due to the violation of the Constitution, which is set in Article 84. If a bill or proposal is alleged to be in violation of the Constitution or a specific clause of a proposal during negotiations in the General Assembly, the process will be taken before other proposals, which we have done countless applications here. In fact, in the last few years, there have been 7 or 8 discussions about similar issues, and in fact, the General Assembly and the presidency have been established in this regard. Since the presidency has no authority to return it to the commission, which is already about the bill and the proposal here, I say with due respect to the position of our President, in the opinion that continuing the negotiations of the law will be in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0032par0033	Against him, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0033par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Guys, if you're going to make law in this House, there's the Constitution, there's the Civil Code, and there's the universal laws of law. Now, here will be the Supreme Court of Military Judges. He will appoint four members of the National Defence Minister, who will be chairman of the board. Now, be careful, State Department of Defense, don't move. The military judiciary is also a judiciary according to Article 145 (45) of the Constitution. But we always defend the judiciary, but it's a judgment, and there's a judge and a prosecutor. Now, when you put the execution at the head of the trial, you guys hit rock bottom. I mean, there's the 138th article of the Constitution. When you say "independent," no authority says "independent." Mr. Kubat, I know my religion like my faith, and you don't believe what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0034par0038	But it's an administrative board.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0033par0039	Look, I'm telling you, as a lawyer -- look, Mr. Bronze is here, and Falcon is here -- I'm telling all your lawyers: you're going to put the Minister of National Defence in charge of the judiciary, you're going to put the Minister of Justice in charge of HSYK. You're not putting a Minister of the Forest at the head of the trial, you're missing a Minister of the Forest. You guys turned it into jungle law, no. The separation of forces, in Ancient Greece, in Rome, in Montesquieu's famous theory of dissolution of powers, then in today's democracies, from the ancient 1215 Magna Carta, to today in Britain, in Britain, in France, in the presidential system, in the United States, you overturn the brake and balance system. You'll have the brakes and balance and no brakes and no balance. Are you against the presidential system? There's a division of forces in the presidential system, and you're bringing in the forces. I'm having trouble understanding you here. Look, not anywhere in the world, but let's take all the first-class students from law school and ask them, "Does the walking run as a ward of the judiciary, or does it have a command over its head?" That's one. Second, I say the second mistake: Imagine the Chief of Staff committing a crime, ordering, bombing planes, people dying. And who's going to give that order? Let's say the Prime Minister. Who's gonna give him a warrant for his trial and investigation, says the law? It's the Prime Minister who gave the order. If that Prime Minister commits the crime, will he give the order? Who are you guys kidding? If you love God, it is not in the name of the law. How will the Prime Minister, who ordered the crime, give himself permission to investigate the Chief of Staff, Kara, Air, Navy commanders? And the Home Secretary -- mind you, an experienced Home Secretary -- is sitting here, he says -- will give permission to investigate if the Coast Guard and the gendarme commit a crime. This is the lower level package of the security package, folks. You're building a security package on this. Because, with this, when you take it off, let the Minister, for the minister's sake, the governors, go to the gendarmes, the Coast Guard, distribute them, shoot them, break them, show them, meet them. Well, then, that governor will let you, the governor's minister will let you. I mean, where was this seen? This is the second mistake. Third mistake: International law, Constitution 90, Constitution 138, Constitution 145. You're saying that the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the 6th Amendment, either you don't know how to read or you're really having memory problems. Nowhere in the world does this kind of independent court exist, friends, with the Minister of Defense in charge. Who are you kidding? Don't do this, pull it back. It's a very, very wrong legal arrangement, very dangerous. This package lays stones in the security package, which is part of the security package. The security package is also the stage of this. That's why this package needs to be withdrawn. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, just because you have a majority of fingers doesn't mean everything's true, it's so real. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0035par0047	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu of Kayseri, please come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0036par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there are a lot of things in this law that we're going to judge now, especially the Constitution. Again, there are problems with judicial independence. In particular, this law needs to be changed and corrected. Now, in general, we can consider it this way: According to the bill, the Council of Military Judges will consist of five people, and the President of the Council will be Minister of the National Defence. Now, valued lawmakers, the presence of a member of the executive body in charge of a judicial board means that the execution directly intervenes in the judiciary. In fact, it is impossible for the judges to think that they are being judged fairly, so this matter must be corrected. Again, four members of the board will be elected by the Prime Minister among the first-class judges recommended by the National Defence Minister. If you consider such a choice, I think, that the Council of Ministers of the National Defence alone will decide the agenda, and will call a meeting, then everyone will know, of course, that the board of judges will no longer be a legal committee that will be able to decide on its own free will. Therefore, it is contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to the separation of forces, it is contrary to the independence of the judiciary, and it is against the guarantee of judgment. Because, as we just said, not only does the creation of the board continue on the basis of the Minister of Defense, but at the same time, the board does not have a direct independent presence on issues such as acceptance, appointment and transfer, first class separation, disciplinary fines, removal, and dismissal. In view of this, the Constitutional Court, on 4 June 2014, dismissed the verdict because it was a direct violation of the rule of disciplinary action of military judges, a member of the governing body, that it might raise doubts about the neutrality and independence of military judges on the sides of the trial, and there is the possibility of such distrust and doubt, and also because it violates the principle of independence and judicial assurance of the courts. So, you bring the same judgment back here. A situation like this, this board, which is to be formed, is not a board that can decide with its own free will, but is completely under the control of the executive. Dear lawmakers, again under Article 4 of the bill, the National Minister of Defence is authorized to appoint the President of the Military Court of Justice, the President of Military Justice and other administrative staffs concerned with the judiciary, except for their appointment to the board. So now that you're considering these, you don't need to form this military board. ▪ The right course of action will decide on such matters and the matter will be closed. Now, of course, there's a lot more to be said, but I want to make it very clear that a state of law is bound to act on its own free will, whether it's civil law or military law. So a state government that is not considered a separate force can never be called a democracy, and such governments eventually lead to the collapse of that state. So, while this is actually in favor of this, while speaking here, the fact that this law will be a barrier to the independent movement of Turkey and the Council of Military Judges, without correcting any of the issues that we're talking about, I offer you respect.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0037par0058	The last word against İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0038par0061	Mr. President, the bill for amendments to the Military Judges' Law is a bill prepared by the Constitutional Court on a mistrial issued by the Constitutional Court. In the meantime, of course, other arrangements for the annulment of the Constitutional Court have been included in the bill as well. However, when we look at the grounds for the Constitutional Court's annulment, it is not possible to say that this reason was met in this bill; that is the main thing, and that is our main objection to this bill. The issue is this: The Constitutional Court found it against the Constitution to be defined as an officer of disciplinary action on military judges, a member of the executive body in 2014, because the second amendment of Article 145 of the Constitution has indicated that the courts would be established on the basis of judicial guarantees and independence. That's the reason for the separation of forces. Now, Mr. Secretary, in the current system, judges are appointed by a trilateral decree. Instead, we're putting together a four-man panel, chaired by the Secretary of Defense of the National Defense, and this committee will appoint all judges. So we're making a recovery compared to the old one. A statement in the form of a defense can be made. But this argument will not be a valid defense against the Constitution's independence of justice, the separation of forces, because the Minister of National Defence will appoint all members of the four-member council, and there is no definition of hierarchy among members of the board. Of all the members of the major's ranks, the Minister will appoint the people he admires as board members. That's the point. This is an arrangement that was even further behind the creation of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors before 2010. If we are to make an arrangement in accordance with the Constitution, we will definitely have to give up a commission that will be determined by the national Minister of Defence's discretion. That is why the bill is contrary to the Constitution, and by its decree, it constitutes an open conflict with the Constitution. The separation of forces is a concept that mankind has finally reached in the long struggles, not a random concept. All powerful democracies, the democracies of developed countries, rise on the principle of separation of forces. The separation of forces was a new concept for mankind when Montesquieu wrote the book Spirit of the Law 267 years ago, when he came up with that concept there. But not many years after that, after the French Revolution in 1789, the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights was a fundamental rule of separation of forces. The 16th article, which is the basis of all democracies today, has reduced the principle of separation to all mankind, as a principle of humanity, as a principle of principle. Article 16 states that there is no constitution in societies where there is no separation of forces and where rights are not guaranteed. So in the 82 Constitution, the separation of forces is a rule, but if you eliminate it with the law, then there is no constitution in Turkey. So this is what I propose from here to the government and the General Assembly: Don't insist on this violation of the Constitution. We've given a proposal to the ruling party group to fix this, and now we're going to give it to the other opposition parties. I believe our proposal has been reached by the government. That's a suggestion. But at least we can work on a proposal that will provide greater independence than today's Constitution. I advise the Minister to give up the structure on this bill from here. Minister, the bill is against the Constitution. It shouldn't be discussed that way.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0039par0068	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Members of parliament, the bill has no authority to discuss the bill due to its violation of the Constitution. That's why we're still negotiating. Mr. President. -.. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turgut Dibek, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0040par0076	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the bill that has changed the Military Judgement Act, the Military Penal Code, and the Court of Military Courts and the Laws Again. First of all, I salute you. Now, it's been over 12 years since the AKP ruled. Especially recently, with the judiciary, with our courts, with the judges, here are the boards, with the HSYK in the past, with the drafts, with the proposals. In these proposals, dear friends, at the beginning of my words, I would like to say this, certainly, with this ease, sir, that the provisions in our Constitution are preserved and internalized... here, in the 2th article of our Constitution, we have the basic attributes of our republic, our state, the state of law, we have the separation of forces in 7, 8, 9. Here is the 9th article, which is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish Nation. Here is the 118th article, which cannot be exposed to the instruction and suggestion of any office when the courts are doing their duty. Over the years, all of these arrangements had precious friends, troubled arrangements with the Constitution. Now, in this group of authorities that have become a habit, they are in such a state that if we are to make such an arrangement in Turkey, if we are to make such an arrangement, then it must be against our Constitution. It has become such a habit. Actually, I think the argument was a good one. We've said that in the Commission, so I don't want to say much of the arrangements in this bill, but a significant part of the bill is the main body of the bill, and it's a valuable part of our Constitutional friends. The Constitutional Court has already revoked a number of provisions, issued a deadline, which expires on March 17th. He must take into account the grounds laid out in the Constitutional Court's decision in this arrangement, that new provisions, according to him, are, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, that these provisions in our Constitutional Court are being carried out under consideration, but no, I'll repeat that statement I just mentioned here: no, brother, we do what we know, we read what we know. Now, dear friends, what's in this bill? It's a bit of a technical bill, so as far as the arrangements are concerned, maybe our fellow congressmen who are listening are looking at it differently, because military courts are a little different. Let me put it this way, in a way that you can understand, that he's basically organizing three military laws. There are significant changes in the Military Judgement Act. As mentioned earlier in the procedure debate, the formation of that council, dear friends, is completely contrary to the Constitution. There are changes in the Military Penal Code, provisions that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. There's actually a study there, a total study like this, which, unfortunately, didn't come in this period, and some of the ingredients were taken from it and brought here, and there are regulations for the restructuring of military courts. So right now, we have military courts in Turkey, where the commanders are, the marine military courts, the air military courts, the military military courts; they're in separate classes. There are new regulations that make it one, remove it all, make it a joint court. We discussed them in detail in the commission, dear friends, and we had suggestions there; part of them changed a few things. I made some notes on the main commission when the law came down here. So, Mr. Secretary -- maybe he'll explain his thoughts a little bit later -- on some of the materials that we've been having reservations about, and we've just been asked to study them, and I've taken notes on the idea that we should revisit them back to the General Assembly phase. I hope that when the bill is discussed, we can all make arrangements to eliminate these concerns together, and I have such an opinion. Dear friends, I'd like to get to the bottom of this bill now. Actually, it's my dear friends from the Military Judiciary Board. So that includes the significant changes in the Military Judges' Law. Here, a structure similar to HSYK was wanted. The appointment of military judges is in the current legislation, with a three-way decree in the arrangement. So, the Minister, the Prime Minister, together, wrote a decree and, with the President's approval, made this appointment with a three-way decree. Now, there will be a board. This board, of course, actually the Minister, will approve. They bypassed the president. So, Mr. President, when you saw the structure of this board, either you bypassed me, brother, and if your friends complain about why you let me out, let them take precautions, the ruling group, for your information. Of course, that's the joke, that's what I'm saying. Look, the board, dear friends, will be made up of first-class judges the Minister will appoint. Mr. Secretary, there are four first-class judges... who may have just been mentioned. When we look at it, it has a first-class separation period, ten years to twelve years, which will be determined by first-class judges, including majors, colonels, colonels, and other generals, who have completed this period, who have exceeded the rank of military commanders. There are no restrictions, no severance restrictions. Now, when you think about these four-member boards, and Mr. Secretary Five, what he does for a living, what he does for a living, why we talk so much, dear friends, that does all the work. Now, with that joint decree I mentioned, these four-person boards will make the appointment, but first the board will do the job. So the military judges will be subject to a test, which will be the final decision to the profession, and then the board will be taking their job. Now, we call it a military judge, so there are prosecutors. So in military literature, the prosecutor, the judge, they're all called judges. So maybe you'll wake up with a question mark in your head to see if there's a military prosecutor. Dear friends, prosecutor judge, all referred to as military judges. All these military judges will be appointed by the board. The board will do the transplants, transfers. All of these judges will be first-class, first-class, disciplinary punishment for these judges -- that authority -- to erase disciplinary sentences, to suspend them, you see, everything will be done by them. Only the HSYK is not here for the inspection of this judicial court, so they've separated it, so it's still in the Minister's contract. The Minister of the Military Justice Review there is again appointing the Minister of Military, Justice, Executive Affairs, so all administrative procedures concerning the judiciary are under the Minister's care. Although there was a motion for him, and I saw him before the law talks began, and they put him at a certain point with a motion, where, with a motion taken from the Minister's authority, he came into the jurisdiction of the Minister, the Prime Minister, and the President, and we'll see him in the articles. Now, this board, my dear friends, will perform the tasks I have stated. What did the Supreme Court say? Mr. Akif Hamzacebi has just stated that it is against the Constitutional Court to use the minister's powers alone. For example, it was the Minister's intention to sentence the Minister for warning and reprimanding military judges, according to the current law, the Constitutional Court would not do such a thing." he says. I mean, it's against, it's against the warranty I just mentioned, it's against judicial independence, it's against everything. So he says: "You can't give it to me." Now, the board will give it to me. There's a notice on the board, there's a reprimand, there's a halt in progress, there's a relocation penalty, there's a discharge sentence, so he's given it all to the board. I've just mentioned it, so after Mr. Secretary single-handedly... actually, friends, just so you understand, just so you understand, you can't even give a notice to a minister, it's against the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, which says, correct it. Mr. Secretary owns the board. I'm sorry, I mean, I told you in the Commission, in the chain of command, that the Minister is in control of the entire board in one sense, because he determines four people. Then, dear friends, this board -- I don't want to say when the minister wants -- meets twice a year, the law has a way of meeting twice a year, but other than that, if it's extraordinary, the Minister is gathering, if the other members of the board don't want it, we don't have the authority to say it. Now, Mr. Secretary is setting up the agenda of the board, and he says, "This is what we're going to discuss. Now, if Mr. Secretary doesn't say yes, there's no new material in that board. I mean, that's how you set the agenda, Mr. Secretary, but we'd like to make some new additions to the agenda, so let's discuss them. No, brother, they don't have that kind of authority. So what does he do, Mr. Secretary? I mean, I'm sorry, are those the models? I mean, they're board members, and they have the right to vote equally with you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0041par0089	Isn't that how Congress commissions work?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0040par0090	Guys, I get it, at least, about the gathering, about the extraordinary gathering, or the changes in agendas, you're often told the board... One of the board says, "Let's add this to it. It can be voted, evaluated, and it can be added to the agenda by 3/2 votes. I'm trying to tell you that he's a board of geniuses. The only Minister, the Minister, he can meet if he wants, he can talk about what the Minister wants, he can be judged. Friends, now, where does such a structure exist in the relevant provisions of our Constitution? Now, I'm looking at our friends trying to talk some sense into what I just said. Dear friends, what I'm trying to say is that if a bill is being drafted, there are laws that bind us here, we have the Constitution in the first place. I mean, we can all take out what's written in this Constitution and read it, so there's no need to be a lawyer. Yeah, every average citizen who reads these arrangements understands what they mean here. Now, this board will serve for four years. There are no restrictions, and at the end of four years, for the second time, for the third time, these friends can be chosen. Dear friends, let's take a look at the logic of the business: Now, the Minister has the right to be re-elected in four years, a board elected by the Minister, any authority authorized by the Minister. In these four years, those board members, if they don't have any independence -- any bickering with the Minister, sir -- let's just say that in style -- they can't even look at it, because there's no reelection in four years. The Minister's appointment is about the minister... although you might think that in four years, he'll be Mr. Secretary, but anyway, there'll be a position there, there'll be one person there. But, four years from now, if those people are going to continue to serve there with the minister's choice again. Now, these four people, as I said, there's no limit to their seniority. I just told you, a major could be a member of this board or four majors, so there's no such thing, but there's no limit. They might say: "Where do you get it from? Well, there's no major, there's a colonel, there's a general, so it could be them. But there's no limit. Now, the members of this board are a hierarchical... well, dear friends, you see, if there are no such limits, they do the work, the appointments, the appointments, the disciplinary fines, the first class, the dissolution of disciplinary sentences, the profession I was just talking about. I mean, a major is going to give a disciplinary action on a general. I mean, Mr. Secretary, where in the world is such an app? You mean, he won't? He can, he's authorized. Well, then, there's a total injury involved. That's what we said in the Commission, we said, "That's not how it works. The Council of Military Judges -- that's the essence of the work, because of the precious friends -- is an independence and a neutrality -- I just mentioned that, well, our Constitution has to be organized in 9, 118, 140, 145, these articles. If possible, the authorities of those who will serve on that committee must be established. What can we do about it? Now, there's a Military Supreme Court, different arrivals. There is a constitutional institution as a military Supreme Court, a Supreme Court of Military Government, a place in our Constitution. Now, they have presidents, they have prosecutors. Now, those presidents should be members of this board. We say that again. What else? The Joint Chiefs have a forensic advisor here. I've just come up with a suggestion that, before we talk, before we go out here, we can also think about the forensic advisors of the forces. Mr. Minister, the Army, the Air Force, the Navy -- if you think it's appropriate -- let's talk about it all together -- maybe it's administrative missions, but -- because the forces can also serve here with their opinions. We can make the number of boards seven, from four to seven, but I think we can make it an arrangement that will satisfy your -- the concerns I just mentioned -- that will eliminate your appointment and not cause a constitutional inconvenience. Of course, now that the negotiations have started, I'm thinking maybe we can get together a little bit later, make arrangements about it, actually solve a lot of the law, or rather, the bill. Other than that, the Constitutional Court has cancelled the regulations, there are adaptations from the Military Penal Code, military courts have an establishment in a pool in one hand, so there's no Sea Court, there's no Air Military Court, there's no Corps. There's going to be a three-man military criminal court, which means there's going to be a one-man military criminal court as a committee. Now, there were problems with him, partly the judges who were going to serve him, especially the Deniz, who came there, had the right to come from the laws of the air judges, with a sense of trust. So when a sea judge enters the air judge's profession, he enters, applies, takes his test, and does his duty. Now, we've got them, we've thrown them all in a pool, we'll say in that pool, you'll say, here, you'll say here, you'll say here. I'm a sea judge, so I went into business. I entered places I knew I would do my duty." he says. No, you can go anywhere from now on." he says. There were these concerns, some of which we tried to resolve. Oh, and let me tell you, it's slowly going down, military judges, prosecutors, how many people are there, dear friends, I've looked at the numbers, or rather I've asked in the Commission, so I've taken 456 notes when I think about military judges, prosecutors in about 450 high courts, maybe this number 1, 2. Now, there are 62 judges in the sea, 51 in the air, and about 50 in the high military Supreme Court offices, so the presidents, the Supreme Court of Military Government, that leaves about 300 military judges, major military military judges, but about 450 military judges. Now, of course, when this number is small, when we think about judicial justice, administrative judgment, here's a board of 13,000-14 thousand judges, which is the body, that is, 13,000-14 thousand judges in the justice mechanism in Turkey, with the heights, up to the Constitutional Court. So there's a military judiciary where 450 people serve -- it has its own functioning -- may not be too important -- but in the spirit of the bill, the provisions concerning the judgment of our constitution are only for the judiciary; they don't apply for military judgment; they're valuable friends who've come up with an understanding like that. So let me read you two jokes about the establishment of the 13th article of the bill, the establishment of the Council of Military Judges, from whom it is formed. I don't know why they wrote that. It says the fourth joke: the Council of Military Judges is independent when they carry out their duties given by law and use their powers. No body, authority, authority or person can give orders or instructions to the board. The Council of Military Judges shall serve under the principles of justice, neutrality, integrity and honesty, equality, driver's license, and integrity, in regard to the independence of the courts and the basis of the guarantee of judgment. I mean, it's like a comedy, my dear friends. They wrote here, they wrote what's in the Constitution and what's in other laws, so there's neutrality, there's independence, there's everything. There's collateral. No one can give instructions, no one can preach. Well, it can't be found, Mr. Secretary, but you set four. So we know how it works. I mean, how are the people you picked out there gonna be bad with you? Is that a thing? Make sure, dear friends, we evaluate this and try to rearrange it. We're trying to help constructively. Or we'll have our motions and our objections to the law to the end. Look, some time ago, 128 new members were elected in the Supreme Court, elections were held, presidents were elected. Go to the Supreme Court, the elected presidents are sitting in their old apartment, friends. The test judges have been appointed. Those 128 members of the judge have no place to sit, the judges have no place, they live in their homes. So without designing anything, without preparation... now they're trying to take over the building of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization next to the Supreme Court. But it's become so... Judgement, dear friends, members of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, elected presidents, they're sitting in their old apartments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I tell you this for the sake of these unaccounted-for arrangements or changes in the law later, dear friends, they bring these problems to us. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0042par0105	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Murat Basesgioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0043par0109	Mr. President, I've been promised to present the views of the National Party of Actions on the Law of Military Judges and the draft of the Law to Change Some Laws. I hereby salute your high council and our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, the bill states that the provisions for the death penalty and the execution of the death penalty have been lifted, the amendments to the Constitutional amendments in 2010 have been made to fill the legal gaps created by the Constitutional Court of Appeals. So far, we have no objection. We also stated in the Commission that we have no objection to legal activities regarding the filling and regulation of constitutional and legal gaps. However, as our friends have expressed, new boards and new practices enter the system. Most important of all -- the issue of the establishment of a military council, which, as our valued group's acting presidents and Mr. Turgut has just stated -- I think is most of all a need for discussion and a need to be focused on. Yes, we have the Turkish Armed Forces and a military profession, a hierarchy, a discipline, but when it comes to judgment, it's impossible to distinguish that from civil justice. Perhaps we've had an opportunity to design military judgment on the basis of judicial independence and judicial guarantees, as the military judiciary has become an increasing capacity as a result of the intensity of the trial. Although our original views on judicial architecture as the National Movement Party will be expressed in their speech on the episodes of our Honorable Faruk Bal and Isparta MP Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz Bey, who has joined the Constitutional Commission, and will express our original views on military justice. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to draw your attention to just one or two things and share with the higher board my views on the general glitch in our judicial system. Yeah, it's the board thing that gets everyone's attention here. We also stated in the commission that the establishment of this board may be well-intentioned by a council similar to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, but the institution here is completely free of judicial independence and under the influence of executives. It's not about the Minister himself. The president of these five-member boards is the national Secretary of Defense, and the fact that Mr. Minister himself has been appointed by Mr. Prime Minister is a dead end that we can't tell anyone about in advanced democracies on behalf of judicial independence. Which is also dominated by our Constitution, where its functioning, even if it is a military judiciary, will operate on the guarantee of judicial independence and judgment, and the establishment of these high judicial councils is under constitutional guarantee all over the world, and is based on the basis of judicial independence and the assurance of sovereignty. Thus, we believe that the way this article is edited is contrary to the Constitution. So it's probably a prejudice, not a preconceived judgment, not a binding statement, but it will return from the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has seen and annulled the law on disciplinary sentences given to military judges as involved in the occupational careers of judges. Which is more severe than that, which is a direct violation of the Constitution and its relevant provisions, due to a direct violation of the guarantee of judicial independence and the fact that it is relevant to the functioning of judicial independence. So what's the solution, what can be done, with the condition that we generally maintain our views on the military judiciary? This board needs to be freed from the influence of the administration, Mr. Secretary, the administration needs to be freed from the Prime Minister's influence. How do we formulate this? The Republican People's Party says we've prepared a motion. That was expressed by our group's vice president, so we're open to discussion. If it comes to a point where we can be satisfied with the assurance of judgment and the independence of the judiciary, we can share our views on the matter. But if it doesn't, I'd like to say once again that we're against it and it's against the Constitution. The second issue we object to is in Article 4 of the draft bill, which gives the National Minister of Defence the authority to appoint the Military Justice Board, the President of Military Justice and other administrative staffs concerned with the judiciary, except for their appointment to the board. We find this arrangement contrary to the basis of judicial and judicial independence. It's probably a motion, I think, prepared, the guys are looking into it. If it can turn into a three-way resolution, at least we think there will be a guarantee for military judges. Yes, I have my opinion on the board. This is a very important provision of the bill. It would not be appropriate for our customs to have this legal structure in this way, both for our Parliament and for the sake of the Constitution. We think that there may be a way (to return to the world). Mr. President, when it comes to the judiciary, we can't pass our views on both our present and our future as a whole society without expressing our views on the judiciary, independent judiciary and the legal state. Unfortunately, there's a very bad idea in our society about trust in judgment, which also comes out in statistics. High judicial elections have just been made, and the judges have voiced their concerns about this insecurities. Recently, we've had three years, five years, anyway -- two very important threats added to our stockpile of problems. Number one: Our national integrity, the nation's nation's nation's integrity and the unitary structure of our state are under great threat. We're going to continue to express the presence of this threat, the size of this threat, the President-General, over and over again, to the public, as the National Movement Party, the size of this threat to our nation, the bad points, the dark points that it will lead us to, but we're going to continue to express it, but today's more about the judiciary, the part that is associated with democracy. The second threat: democracy in general, and in private, is the threat facing parliamentary democracy. Today, Turkey has quickly lost its votes on parliamentary democracy, its achievements, its acquisps, since 1876. Ten years ago, ten months ago, ten days ago, when the winnings on this matter were 3 today, I'm afraid it's down to 1. What is it? The separation of forces, the relationship of living and walking; I assure you, we have been witnessing the long-standing union of living and walking, the default of government; sometimes in place of government, the execution, instead of running, the living, instead of living. Now even in the meeting places, our sensitivity is gone. We're not afraid to see a government job in the party office, we're not afraid to see it in the party building, or we're witnessing a statement from an institution, a person who has no obligation to make an announcement on behalf of the state. There have been major breaches about the rule of law, there are great difficulties with judicial independence, judicial guarantees. I hate to be an example of foreign countries, foreign cultures, but I'd like to give you an example in order to get your attention, and it's been reflected in the press: Recently, Obama is giving a speech on the day of unity at the convention. It's a grand hall of 300-500 people. All the people stand up, six people don't stand up in front. Who isn't getting up? High court judges. Who's throwing the Supreme Court judges? The President's throwing it away. Why aren't they getting up? They don't stand up for independence, and they don't applaud, and some of them don't come to that meeting. Union Day meetings in America are very important, very honorable days, and everyone wants to participate. But there are six high-ranking judges teaching a very important lesson in the name of judicial independence and collateral. Now, when we come to our country, in our culture, we don't speak of these beautiful longings, unfortunately, from the justice of Hazreti Omar, from the women who refused the padrisah to come to peace. We've got a decree of 800 people coming up. What decree is about judges and prosecutors, not the season, not the time? In this season, there's only an alibi, a judge, a prosecutor's child is sick, his own patient, and a change of venue is at stake because of an alibi. 880 judges and prosecutors are being transferred, relocated. There's an understanding, sir, that we're struggling with a structure. In this struggle, friend, don't talk to me about the legal state, don't talk to me about judicial independence, don't talk about the judge's guarantees. I'm going to clean up this structure. Who's going to clean up after I clean up this structure? Won't our judgment always end its life, its energy on such a cleansing operation, and its judicial activity, the security of the judiciary, that it really needs to do? For him, we're going through a very difficult process in this sense, in the name of judicial independence and the assurance of justice. For example, there are December 17th-25 allegations of corruption, perhaps the most important claim of the century, the claim of corruption. Now, an executive body can't be both a judge and a prosecutor and a bailiff and an execution guard. That's how he operates the December 17th-25th operation right now; you're a prosecutor, you're a prosecutor, and you're on behalf of the entire staff of the judiciary. My dear friends, it is not the duty of the government to fight corruption once. How is it the government's duty? It is his duty to himself. Other than that, fighting corruption is the duty of the judiciary in Turkey. What's the verdict? Here, brother, this is the evidence I have. I open the way for you, and no matter how far this work goes, you must bring it to an end. It is to encourage it, to prepare its ground. That's not how it works with us, Judge, you step aside, I'll handle this. It's trying. When you try to handle it, it's called the law, it's a very primitive understanding of self-righteousness. It's possible to replicate these samples. My dear friends, I spoke on the Justice Department budget in December 2013. I'd like to share a paragraph of that talk with you again: "In the political crisis and chaos of our country, sometimes the execution of the legislature has led. Today, he will make this pioneer mission a Turkish judiciary. I said in 2013. Today, I still feel the same way, despite all your shortcomings and shortcomings. Because -- and I'm bored to say -- the living can't perform this chaos, this social corruption. The administration, unfortunately, has not been able to gather its attribute to being the government of all Turkey; camping, division is at stake in the country. The President must act within constitutional boundaries, but he says: I will be a different president. Well, then, in a country where so much chaos, so many crises, who's going to be the judge of this system? The Constitution has appointed the President to co-ordinate the harmony between the state's bodies. But if you're on one side as the president's office, then your arbitration mission is over. That's why I'm calling the verdict as an address. Despite all its shortcomings, it's the Turkish judiciary that will reduce the political crisis that we've been through despite all its shortcomings. There have been new elections, our Supreme Court President has changed, the Supreme Court has changed; good luck. In the name of the independent justice, we wish them the highest achievements in their duties to uphold the rule of law. We also thank our previous presidents, the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. The newly elected Supreme Court President spoke very hopefully on behalf of judicial independence, on behalf of the guarantee of justice. I hope they keep that promise. But if we give judgment on this issue as a flag, the judgment needs to show judgmental courage and judicial integrity without anyone looking the other way. He has to consider himself to be his duty in this matter. Politically, neither we, as the government, should be involved in this sacred functioning of the judiciary. We must not take any steps to politicalize the judiciary in order to take over the judiciary. My dear friends, as of today, you can take over this part of the trial, this part of the trial. That's not the answer. We all need the law, everyone's experienced it through pain. From September 12th to this side, political staffs from the 1960s revolution saw with bitter experience that the law would one day be needed for everyone. So, please, let's give up our ambitions to politicalize the law, to politicalize the judiciary. Let us give this country a system of justice that works properly, where everyone is happy. I think that's our top priority. As soon as it's held firm for him, I'd like to call on the government and the political establishment to make sure we don't interfere with the functioning of the judiciary. My dear friends, we're going through a very critical process. We're going to an election as a country on June 7th. Don't get me wrong, we're not going through a period where our election issues end on June 8th. The main problem for Turkey will be after June 8th, after July, in August, during the ongoing months. No matter how many votes a party gets, it can't be enough alone to overcome these problems. So, based on the political experience of all these years, I think that our country needs a great political consensus, social compromise. I want an understanding that exceeds a coalition format, that is not about parties' voting rates, but that will ensure a great social consensus in society, to dominate our country. And we can put together a manifesto, a national program, to agree on the important issues of our country. What can this great compromise do? Our Constitution has 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Articles, the integrity of our state, unity, language; we can strengthen reconciliation over and over again. There's judge collateral, judicial independence, rule of law, parliamentary democracy. By renewing our understandings, our wills, we can declare them to society. We could say: "Don't drive children into terrorist areas." Don't put 15-year-olds in front of the police or in all wars now, let's call off this mine business, this bitch mine traps, let's call it international contracts. We can fight with a 13-year-old drug use. With a list to add to all of this, we can create a social compromise, but we can't expect that from the citizen on the street. The parties will do it; opposition parties, including another ruling party, will come together and present a declaration to the community to ensure this social union. In order to do that, Mr. President has to remain within constitutional limits. He must continue with a mission described by the Constitution in Article 103, 104, 105, because the system has no referee. One, this is going to happen. Second, if our nation agrees with this great compromise that I have described, on June 7th, it will put political parties on the table with this power. Yes, I want a compromise in this country. I'm sick of this camping, this division. If he says that, then he's got to give political parties a role in the face of this compromise, and he's got to support it. Yes, I shared my sincere feelings with our valued deputies. Hopefully, the next process will lead to good deeds in the name of our country's unity, unity and the welfare of our citizens, and I salute the entire grand delegation, especially you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0044par0132	Thank you, Mr. Basesgioglu. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0045par0136	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the Law of Military Judges, 685 rows, and on the draft of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Given the rule of law, the inviolability of human rights, civil democratic control, the separation of forces and so on, the military's position in state structure in Turkey and many problems exist in terms of civil democratic control. As a general character of Turkey's political system, the valued lawmakers are an undisputed reality that they are far from the ideal of a democratic legal state based on human rights, driven by fundamental human values such as diversity and pluralism, freedom and justice, open society, responsible and limited governance, tolerance and respect, recognition of differences. This regime, while officially trying to appear to contain democratic institutions and mechanisms within it, has a significant oligarchy quality in its functioning. Although sovereignty is constitutionally tried to be made to look like it belongs to the nation, the use of sovereignty has other partners in the use of democratic representatives of the people. With the president, the Armed Forces and the Bureau of Justice are among the actual users of the people's sovereignty. Mr. President, we all see and live very clearly that the fundamental political decisions concerning the entire community in Turkey today cannot be taken by the democratic representatives of the public, the unchanging programme of bureaucratic oligarchy is fundamentally dominated by the political system under the image of democracy. Dear lawmakers, when we review the bill, it is envisioned that the Council of Military Judges will be formed from four members elected from the Minister of National Defence and first-class military judges. This board is authorized to decide whether to accept, appoint, transfer, leave, first class, and be first class, give disciplinary sentences and suspending military judges. To interpret this arrangement envisioned by the bill: The National Minister of Defence, a member of the executive body, is on the board, and the fact that the other board members are envisioned to be elected to the board with the Prime Minister's approval on the proposal, serves to establish a new judicial board under the direction of the administration. Thus, it is not possible for this Council of Military Judges to carry out the mission in accordance with the principles of the independence and judicial guarantees of the courts. Precious lawmakers, when their democracies are examined, we look at the position of military judiciary in this country on the axis of debates and struggles in parallel with political, economic and social developments in the past two centuries: In most of the advanced Western democracies, almost all jobs and procedures are conducted by civil judicial authorities, except for technical-in-discipline issues of the military judiciary during the peace period. In other words, civil courts have been appointed in many of these countries for military crimes, military service, and for all the petty crimes committed by members of the military. For example, during the peace period, Spain's military judiciary is limited only to the military area, and the military penal code condemns the crimes they are declared to be military. Again, during the peace period in Switzerland, military courts are authorized to prosecute the crimes they committed on duty or off duty, provided they remain in military service. Another important application in these countries is a court of law, which plays an important role in overseeing relevant court decisions. We can also mention Belgium as an example for the court of law. Mr. President, the provision that the AK PARTI government intends to implement with this bill is not to do the required work of a democratic legal state by reducing the scope of the military judicial mechanism and opening it to control; rather, it is in the form of putting military judiciary under the control of its rule and adding a new one to the judiciary's areas. Thus, this bill contains no reasonable arrangement for strengthening principles such as democratisation, transparency, judicial independence that the country needs; on the contrary, it has the qualities that will lead to a more authoritarian conduct in the country, with its already highly controversial and legitimate judiciary being protected and subject to direct execution. The principle of dissolution of forces among Turkey's executive, legislative and judicial communities was already corroded before the AK PARTI governments. And as a result of the intervention of the EC PARTY governments, unfortunately, we are no longer able to discuss a separation of forces between executive, legislative and jurisprudence. Dear lawmakers, the main function of the judiciary is to ensure that justice is carried out. The independence of the judiciary, in essence, means that the judiciary is not dependent on politics and power. The reason for judicial independence is to ensure that the judiciary is protected from interference from those in power while carrying out its duties. This is the essential principle of constitutional-democratic state understanding, because unless it is protected from any external influence or pressure, the judge is not in a position to distribute justice legally and objectively. The judge's recommendation should be law, only law. In this regard, the independence of the judiciary is the greatest guarantee of freedom. In action, there is no mention of the independence of a Council of Judges, appointed by the same Minister, who, by the same minister, is a member of the National Defence Minister's presidency and whose members are also a member of the administration. There is no reasonable response within the universal norms of the Council of Judges to be created by this method. Dear MPs, the bill will also make changes in Article 9 of the Law on Military Courts No. 353. The article states that the military courts are tasked with handling military crimes committed by military persons and the cases committed by them in connection with military or military service and missions. The duties under Article 11 (D) of State Administration Act 10/6/1949 and Article 11 of Article 5442 (D) and the investigation of the Prime Minister for the Chief of Staff and the Chief of Staff for the Chief of Staff and the Chief of Staff for the Chief of Staff, or the Minister of Defense (Jandrma General Command) under the duties of those who carry out the duties of those who carry out the duties of those who carry out the duties of those who have been born or engaged in the duties of the mission, are being subjected to the permission of the Minister of the Minister of the Interior for the Chief of Staff and for other staff. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's take a look at the duties of Article 11 (D) of Article 5442 referred to in this arrangement. Yes, according to the City Administration Act, the governors seek assistance from the Ministry of Interior and, if necessary, from the nearest land, sea and air command, in order to benefit from other provinces' law enforcement forces and other forces assigned to this work, as well as from the nearest land, sea and air command, if they cannot or cannot see or implement the measures they can't prevent from being prevented by forces in the province or at its command. In these cases, it is appreciated by the governor, who is demanding assistance from the Ministry of Interior or from the military or from both authorities. The governor's request for help will be granted without delay. In emergencies, this request can also be made verbally if it is later translated into written form. Yes, valued lawmakers are arranged by Article 11 of the State Administration Act, where governors can seek the support of law enforcement forces, both law enforcement forces, if they are forced to, and command these law enforcement forces, and manage the intervention of social events within the province's borders through law enforcement. This arrangement has already been in effect since 1949. So, if we ask what new arrangement is being brought in with the bill that we're currently discussing, what is being asked to bring in? The new provision is being brought in: The investigation of the crimes committed by law enforcement officers and security forces related to the Chief of Staff and other commanders of the General Staff to intervene is being halted. Mr. President, the investigation of the crimes against the social opposition, as in the thousands of unsolved murders, as in Roboski massacres, as in the children and young people who were massacred in travel actions, has already been effectively blocked, as in the fate of more than 50 0% of our citizens who were slaughtered in the Kobane actions. If this bill becomes legal, the investigation of law enforcement crimes against citizens will be legally obstructed. Investigating rights violations by law enforcement law enforcement during the intervention against public opposition means establishing a clear basis for violations of rights and permitting violations of rights under the permission of the Prime Minister, the General Commander of the gendarmes, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior. This bill is placed in a position not in a position to protect a citizen of the state, but in a position that protects crimes committed against his citizen, prevents the investigation of crimes, therefore forgives. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are willing to support the investigation and prosecution of soldiers who have been charged with crimes committed by military persons in the bill, including the Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of State, the Minister of Defense, a deep wound caused by the Roboski massacre in society, which has maintained the freshness of the executive's members of the public memory three years later, despite the fact that it has been three years past, and the perpetrators of the massacre will not be able to prosecute any responsible soldiers. Dear lawmakers, this bill is one of the laws in which the government has adopted a policy of punishment for crimes committed by law enforcement while providing security and security that has been heavily prepared recently. Where we come from, citizens are left vulnerable to state power. A law enforcement force is introduced to a citizen who wants to express an objection, individually or collectively, with virtually unlimited power and power. The anti-crimes against a citizen seeking rights are being brought into protection. Under the supervision of the judiciary, citizens are also wanted to be unable to seek out their rights through the judicial authorities. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have branded the state's punishment policy on the Turkish judiciary as we come in. In Turkey, the problem of punishment, which has become almost a norm in violations of the rights of law enforcement against citizens, has become a gangrene. In a broader frame, the main reason for the problem of punishment can also be summarized in Turkey as society lacks tools to question the state's actions. The judiciary, which must carry out this mission, is clearly preventing individuals or groups from dealing with the state for its historical purpose to protect and protect its institutions. Mr. President, the year 2014, for example, was one of the most intense years of women's massacres, business killings, and natural plunders, and there was a year when justice was not granted to the people who resisted these massacres and demanded justice. The judiciary has not been able to respond to the search for justice of those who lost their lives in the work killings, nor to those who were charged with women's murders, nor to those who lost their lives in police brutality, with a clear conscience. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important effects of the policy of punishment in crimes committed by law enforcement is that it destroys trust in justice and the legal system in the eyes of society. The lack of trust in the legal system of citizens and society in general also means that, in fact, it does not trust the state it belongs to as a citizen. One of the key consequences of their criminal policy is that these events continue to happen continuously. Many minds that feed on punishment policies do not see an obstacle to committing crimes against the public. We all know that whether or not those responsible are tried or not is one of the biggest obstacles to the establishment of social peace. Of course, knowing that is not enough, the government must give up the policy of punishment. We believe he should immediately give up policies that leave citizens vulnerable to the state. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, when we think of this bill with the internal security package planned to be brought to the General Assembly in the coming days, we can see more concretely the security state danger the government wants to create. The government needs to understand very well that policies that maintain social stability, such as social peace, public safety, cannot be achieved by security laws. When we look at the political history of developed countries, we can see it very clearly. When this reality is in the middle, it's not supposed to be the methods of a democratic nation's imaginary, hoping to help with security policies, hoping to keep the judiciary running. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, Turkey of the 21st century has to be a state where citizens must use their freedom from individual and collective democratic rights. However, these and similar proposals lead to rigging armed law enforcement mechanisms against civilian citizens and to cover up the crimes committed by the armed armband against the public. These government-like moves mean nothing more than building new obstacles to the development of the country into a solid democracy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are undisputed about Turkey's need to renew itself in terms of universal values as well as to meet the needs of its own community in more civilized and effective ways. On the other hand, the internal dynamics of the Turkish community are both essential and facilitating in this kind of integration and regeneration effort. Under the circumstances, Turkey is in an urgent need to transform governance order in a more democratic, progressive, rational, civilized and human way. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this transformation, which cannot be thought apart from the perspective of democratisation and civilisation, has many dimensions from a democratic constitution to strengthening civil society, from the proper modernisation of education, to the support of cultural expression and diversity. A country that has begun full accession talks with the European Union urgently needs provisions that will lead to real democracy and the construction of a free society. I salute the General Assembly with such feelings and thoughts, that these laws of law should be abandoned at once, which have preceded state security and strengthened their policy of punishment and led to new injustices.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0046par0164	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0047par0168	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the proposed bill. I salute you all. Precious lawmakers are defined as being free, not under any external pressure or influence, not having as much danger and danger as being put under duress, not taking orders from anyone, the judge making decisions based on law and conscience, in the same sense as the concept of judge independence. The European Court of Human Rights views the independence and neutrality of the judiciary in two ways - objectively and subjectively. Subjective independence and neutrality are related to the judges who make the trial, and it is a matter of whether they are personally biased or impartial or not. Because one of the rules that is important in judicial independence is that the judge who conducts the trial can also resist biased winds from his own inner world. Objective independence -- which is called institutional independence -- is generally a question of whether judges and prosecutors have the necessary assurances to ensure that the judicial body is free of all suspicion. In fact, when we look at it, the European Court of Human Rights considers the objective independence and neutrality of the trial at a point in those countries where the constitution, laws and consciences have been decided. At this point, the objective provision of judicial independence means that the judiciary is institutionally independent against the executive body and the legislative body. Dear lawmakers, this provision in terms of the judicial and administrative judiciary is actually quite valid in terms of the military judiciary. In fact, we have a classicized understanding, which is the wrong view, as it should or should be, of direct executives in the matter of deployment, promotion, appointment, and disciplinary punishments of military judges. Military judiciary is the judiciary, administrative and judicial judiciary is the judiciary. The assurances or regulations made for administrative and judicial judiciary must also be made for the military judiciary. In the final joke of Article 145 of our Constitution, the establishment of the military judicial bodies, the functioning of military judges, the autonomy of military judges, the relations with the military prosecutor's office, the independence of the courts and the guarantee of judgment are regulated by law. So, our Constitution says that you have to look at something when you're making law on this matter -- bordering -- you have to keep the judicial profession and guarantees in front of you under surveillance. It would be against the Constitution if you did not take into account the judicial profession and the assurances of the security. Dear lawmakers, in fact -- the focal point of this bill -- the board on the 13th article of the bill -- I think it's a matter of criticism. Here, in fact, there are four people who can be appointed with the approval of the Prime Minister and the National Minister of Defence at work. There's more going back than there is. Here, military judges and prosecutors are officially left in the shadow of political will. So politics has been able to penetrate more military courts and prosecutors than it has entered military barracks. In fact, what is done by the definition of the law, my dear friends, is that there is a board here that is officially an abandoned political delegation to the minister and beyond that to the Prime Minister. I mean, there's a political intervention here. Now, imagine a board that will propose members of this board to the Secretary of State, the Prime Minister. Basically, the arrangement that was intended to be brought here was to form an independent and neutral council, but it's not at heart, given that the minister and the prime minister are directly members of the executive body, and that there is no constitutional regulation for the determination of these members, and there is no regulation in the law, just a condition of being first class. In addition, there is a board structure on this board that is not based on the principle of broad-based representation, does not serve a democratic and pluralist structure, and is left to the executive body as its entire formation and function. In these ways, this council is contrary to many of the articles of our Constitution, particularly Article 145. Because this law, above all, is not based on the basis of the assurance of judgment, nor has it been taken into account. As a matter of fact, both the acquisitor of the European Union and the relevant documents indicate that military judges and prosecutors must be assured of their rights as well as other judges and prosecutors in the Constitutional Court's decisions. At this point, the principle of independence and neutrality of the courts is clearly violated by the principle of judicial guarantees and the rule of law. In this regard, I have no doubt that a clause and other substances given to the Council of Military Judges and other powers given to the Military Judiciary Board are clearly contrary to the Constitution, which are equipped with important powers in terms of admission, appointment, transfer, transfer, promotion, discipline, suspension, generality, regulation, and the rights to a career. In light of the Constitutional Court's decisions, when we looked at the violations of the Constitutional Court, these issues would actually have to be resolved. Dear lawmakers, in fact, it is clear that these cannot be made by words or by the Constitution in order to ensure the independence and neutrality of judges. First of all, judges need assurances to be neutral and independent, so they need to have judicial assurances. Imagine something so obvious that the minister or the Prime Minister's appointment to the council or to be removed from the board, and the judges who want to take part in this Military Council, who are bound to have no assurances from between the two lips of the prime minister, should not be surprised if the judges wander in the party buildings of the ruling party, because at that point, the minister or the Prime Minister should be appreciated to become a member of the Military Council. For this reason, the members of the Military Council will now be roaming the ruling party's party's building. That would create a doubt in society that the judiciary is not even neutral in the image, so it would be contrary to the principle that the judiciary is neutral even in the image. So I think that these provisions, which are contrary to the Constitution, should be changed, at least that this council should be built into democratic structure and based on majority representation, and that the executive body should be removed from here. The structure of the HSYK here has been compared to the structure of the HSYK, but has not been given the right to inspection. I'll carry on my words in the future. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0048par0179	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the government, Minister of National Defence Mr. Ismet Yilmaz... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Military Judgement Act, which has been drafted by our Ministry, and to the draft of the Law on Change in Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute you all. This bill, which came before the Supreme Assembly, is a mandatory requirement for changes made in the Constitution in 2004 and 2010, because the amendments to the Constitution's 15th, 38th and 87th amendments to the Constitution in 2004 have been lifted from the scope of the death penalty and the execution of the death penalty. As a result of these changes, the provisions for the death penalty in the Military Penal Code have become unconstitutional. Again, the Constitutional amendment adopted in 2010 as a result of a public vote has also made significant changes to the Constitution's Article 145 ▪ on military judiciary. The concept of military service, which is one of the measures for the establishment of military judicial bodies, the functioning of military judges, the autonomy work of military judges and the regulation of their relationship with the commanders in the court of military prosecutors, has been removed from the text of matter. Again, the sentence was removed from the clause text, which states that the military services of military judges outside the judicial service will be co-ordinated with the law on their relationship with the command of their organization according to the requirements of military services. Again, the principle that non-military persons except in the state of war will not be tried in military courts has been adopted, and that some of the crimes committed by military persons will be organised against state security, constitutional order and the functioning of this order. On the other hand, Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have entered many criminal laws under the new regulation of the Turkish Penal Code and the fundamental philosophy of criminal law has changed. The Turkish Penal Code system has made significant changes in its general provisions and forms of punishment, resulting in irregularities with the Military Penal Code. To meet these needs, I'd like to give you a few examples: the time of the plaintiff for the 49/a joke of the Military Penal Code begins to operate from the end of all military obligations. The Constitutional Court has called off its sentence as a crime against the balance and as a matter of desertion. It has also been revoked as to whether the provisions of a postponement of some military crimes will not be carried out, and whether the sentence of a short-term prison sentence cannot be translated into alternative sanctions, and the decision of a mistrial will not be applied in terms of military crimes. Another cancellation of the Constitutional Court is: the National Defence Minister has also revoked the disciplinary action imposed on military judges and has given six months for this cancellation, so that during that time you can fill in the gap. This is the law that we fill in the gap, when the military judges are revoked by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that the Minister of State has the authority to give disciplinary action to military judges. Mr. President, good lawmakers, with this law, there is no authority granted by the Ministry of National Defense. Article 2 of the Military Judges' Law (the figures and foundations for taking advantage of these resources are identified by the Ministry of National Defense...) Article 3 is determined by the regulation issued by the Ministry of National Defence to determine the conditions for which officers to be subject to... Article 8 is taken by the National Ministry of Defence. The examination is organised by the National Ministry of Defence to implement pre-proclaimed orientation training, acceptance of nominations, and the procedures for completing the missing military service of those who have left the law school. Again, other issues related to the appointment are carried out by the National Ministry of Defence of Defense to determine the extent to which the candidates will be audited, their record work, where they will be assigned... Again, Article 13 is regulated by the National Ministry of Defence... Again, in the field of military judges, the record rating is reported to the head of military justice at the beginning of August by the chief of staff of staff. The 15th article, the first class of military judges, and first class, is done by the Ministry of National Defense........ and this is what you do most. The authority currently in the current Ministry of National Defence is submitted to the President's approval and published in the Official Gazette on the basis of provisions regarding the transfer and transfers of members of the Armed Forces, provided that the appointment of military judges and these laws remain confidential. Again, the conditions for special appointment of the National Ministry of Defence for Military Justice Chiefs are said to be to be reassigned to the National Ministry of Defence Military Justice inspectors. Again, permissions will be granted by the military court, senior judge and military prosecutor, the Ministry of National Defence. On the basis of reports and complaints, the National Minister of Defence has appointed the inspector to be appointed to the 23rd Article. Again, on the 24th article, it is also being carried out by the Minister of National Defence, who will be assigned to military justice inspectors by the National Minister of Defence, who will conduct the procedure on his behalf and inspect it, and who will be asked by the Minister of National Defence. Again, the State Department of Investigation and Prosecution: Article 25, Minister of Public Defence shall examine the document, which includes the opinion of the military justice inspector assigned to review it and decide to remove the document if he does not see the need for disciplinary action or investigation. With this law, we hand over all the powers vested in the National Ministry of Defence to a committee which will be chaired by four first-class judges, based on the Constitutional Court's ruling that the Minister of Defense cannot be punished. Now, the most complaints here are, why does the National Minister of Defense enter this institution? Look, it's the most...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0050par0206	No, he's also making an appointment.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0051par0207	He's doing an appointment.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0208	Why is it beating? Let the Minister of Defense enter -- Mr. Faruk says so -- but why does the Minister of National Defence also enter? First of all, it's not a judicial procedure, it's an administrative procedure. I'm talking about the legal system in Holland.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0051par0209	Minister, this is Turkey.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0210	There is one Supreme Judiciary Council in the Netherlands, with the Law of the Judiciary Council, the Minister of Justice appoints all members of the Judiciary Council for six consecutive years. If the Dutch Justice Minister appoints the member of the Judiciary Council, it is in accordance with the universal human rights, the law, but Turkey has stayed in many countries, so that I may complete it, and then after that, if the Minister of Justice is appointing him, let him not appoint a Minister in Turkey. If you say you can't tell Europe again. There are council members in Denmark; the High Judiciary Council is appointed by the Minister of Justice for four years. You can't tell Denmark.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0052par0211	I wish we had democracy there.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0212	In the Czech Republic, judges are appointed, appointed, suspended by the President at the Ministry of Justice's proposal. One of the speakers who spoke just now says that if the administration throws the judiciary -- this is an administrative institution, not a judicial institution, a board of judges -- you'll be connecting it to the administration. In Sweden, parliament casts the Judiciary Council. So you're linking the Judiciary Council to Parliament?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0052par0213	Could you cover up these corruptions in Sweden?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0214	It has nothing to do with them. Somewhere else, in Estonia, the Minister of Justice is a member of the Council. In Lithuania, not only is the Minister of Justice but also the Minister of Finance and the President of Finance a member of the Council, the Minister of Finance also attends. Again, France is the President of the Council and the Minister of Justice is the vice president of the Council. Therefore, it is not the right approach to tell the Minister of Justice or the minister in another country that it cannot be granted authority in Turkey and that it cannot be explained to Europe. Another thing is that the minister is responsible for the good work of the system because he is the minister who will answer to the nation. There's parliamentary research, there's a gene question, and above all, there's going to be a public presence every four years; if you violate the rights of a citizen, then what are you going to do? But I see some of my friends here, who say it's normal if it's bureaucratic, if it's politics, it's wrong. If someone on this bench is saying that, then he's denied the need to be here. There should be no institution in Turkey, where politics cannot govern.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0053par0216	It's the politics that account, Mr. Secretary, not the corrupt politics.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0217	Another thing, we're throwing a first-class judge in here. You will trust the first-class judge while you do your duty as judge, wearing his robe, on the stand. When you take on an administrative position, I reveal insecurity. This is not the right approach if you say so.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0053par0218	Tell that to the President! Tell Mr. President he doesn't trust the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0219	Another thing is that the Major here will punish the next colonel. Well, a friend of ours said, "Is this suitable for the hierarchy?" You know, at the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, he was elected a student judge. Those with the coroner's office were chosen to...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0054par0220	You're ignoring military hierarchy, Mr. Secretary. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0221	No, if you call it a military hierarchy, the Minister is in charge.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0054par0222	No way!
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0223	Then the minister should be in charge on his own.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0054par0224	No, what you're saying is incompatible with the facts.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0049par0225	No, it's just like when the coroner was fined, you didn't bring criticism that you couldn't punish the head of the criminal court or the president of the trading court. Therefore, there is no such thing as a civilian's military if there is no seniority here; a major is not punishing a colonel, but a board of ministers is punishing him.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0055par0226	It's the minister's.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0054par0227	It's the minister, the minister.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0056par0228	Mr. Secretary, there's no need for that board!
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0057par0229	Yeah, well, if you're going to trust those four first-grade judges, those four first-year judges, when you're on the stand, when you're looking at the file, you're going to trust them while you're doing your job as a judge, but that's another thing if you don't trust an administrative procedure when you're in charge.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0058par0230	Mr. Secretary, don't you think the judge has taken over the parallel structure? You're complaining about the judges.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0057par0231	Another issue, Mr. President, members of lawmakers, is that the United States of America has the best universities in the world.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0058par0232	▪ The parallel structure has taken over the judiciary. Aren't you the one who said? You're complaining about the judges. Do you trust judges?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0059par0233	Mr. Kokturk, it's okay, it's okay; you've told me enough.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0057par0234	But in the United States, no president has ever been elected. Therefore, coming by choice is not essential to working well in that place. One of the speakers who just spoke here said that confidence in the judiciary in Turkey is at its lowest. Well, everyone knows that our HSYK also comes with an election.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0060par0235	You made the change...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0057par0236	We've all done it together, we've all done it together.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0061par0237	We've never done it together.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0060par0238	We didn't do it.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0062par0239	We didn't approve.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0061par0240	He was totally against it, MHP.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0241	Again, another permit application: There was a complaint about the permit. Look, I've got the Law on Judgement of Officers 4483 and Other Public Servants. According to this Law, it is necessary for officers and other public officials to be allowed to stand trial for their crimes due to their duties. From whom? From the governors. Who's it from? From the governors. Article 3 (e): by the decision of the Council of Ministers, or by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the central office of the institutions associated with the Prime Minister and the ministries, is appointed by the joint decision-making officials and other public officials.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0064par0242	So he's a judge officer?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0243	Therefore, there is nothing natural about the right of civil servants subject to Law 657 that is recognized to our soldiers who work in the Armed Forces.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0064par0244	So now he's a judge officer? I can't, I can't.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0245	Our goal is to save man, the most fundamental value is to keep man alive so that the state can live. So we will protect man.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0065par0246	That's not a true word. You know him wrong, keep a man alive so the state can live. It's not the word, it's the wrong word, you know, you're always saying the wrong thing. You'll make a living crawling.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0247	And while we're doing that, we're making these decisions for the continuation of the system, security, stability. If we make a mistake, this is, again, the administration's entire actions and procedures are subject to judicial supervision. Look, not every transaction of HSYK is subject to judicial control, but all the procedures we've done in this new arrangement are subject to judicial supervision. If your actions are subject to judicial supervision, is there any need to be concerned anymore?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0066par0248	Then why are you complaining about judgment? I don't trust you. You say, Mr. Secretary, you say.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0249	▪ How will you declare it? Is there any way to say it? We say, "Let the people live, so the state can live."
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0067par0250	You're still saying the wrong thing, Mr. Secretary. There is no such thing as a human life. Don't care about human beings...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0251	With this law, we will bring additional assurance to members of our Armed Forces, as well as the powers vested in the Ministry of National Defence in this Military Judgement Act will be taken from the Minister, who is first-class, a five-man delegation of judges we trust while working on the bench.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0067par0252	You'll make a living crawling.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0063par0253	With the support of this law, I wish good luck to our country, to the nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0068par0255	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Karaman MP Mevlüt Akgün. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0069par0259	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Law of Military Judges and the Amendment to certain Laws. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Each state needs an army and a national defense to protect its own existence. Because of this need, the duty of the Turkish Armed Forces on the 117th article of our Constitution is to defend Turkish homeland against threats and dangers from outside the country, to maintain and strengthen military power in order to deter it, and to perform duties abroad under the decision of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The fulfillment of these tasks obliges different regulations regarding the Armed Forces. Because of this obligation, military judiciary is recognized in the 145th and 156th amendments of our Constitution. Both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and the European Convention on Human Rights contain the ruling that the courts are independent and neutral. Many legal regulations under the European Union's accession process have basically raised changes in the judicial and administrative judiciary. In this regard, the military judiciary in Article 145 of our Constitution has also been affected by these changes. The amendment to Article 145 of the Constitution shall be removed from the Constitution, one, the requirements of military service; two, the relations of military judges with their command. In addition, the principle that non-military persons can not be tried in military courts except in the state of war has been set up with constitutional amendments to the security of the state, constitutional order and the functioning of the criminal proceedings. As stated in the European Court of Human Rights ruling, it is considered, as its nature, that certain rights and freedoms of members of the Armed Forces can be imposed on civilians and that separate regulations can be made. Indeed, if we look at the legal interest protected by the Military Penal Code, in accordance with the rule of law, you have hanged people in the Turkish Armed Forces with their rights and freedoms, protecting superior law, maintaining military discipline and preventing crime. Therefore, it is imperative that different regulations be made in the direction of a number of national defences, which are not included in the general penal code. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, on the other hand, some of the provisions of the Military Penal Code 1632 have been a matter of the Constitutional Court's annulment. The Constitutional Court has ruled that in its different decisions there will be no postponement provisions for certain military crimes and that a short prison sentence cannot be changed into alternative sanctions and that the dismissal of the sentence will not be implemented in the interests of certain military crimes, as long as the status of military persons remains in place, the provisions concerning the supervised liberalisation stated in this law are contrary to the Constitution. Again, the amendment of Article 38 of the Constitution will not allow the death penalty to be issued. As a result of these amendments to the Constitution, the provisions for the death penalty in the Military Penal Code have become unconstitutional. Again, Article 145 of the Constitution shall be ruled that cases relating to the security of the state, constitutional order and the functioning of this order will be held in court at all times, under amendments to the Constitutional Amendment of 2010. All these developments have made some changes to Military Penal Code 1632 mandatory. In accordance with the bill adopted by our Justice Commission, a provision of law shall be set in proportion to the grounds of the Constitutional Court's annulment, in accordance with the grounds in which the provisions of the Court of Justice shall not be applied for military crimes. Two: Despite its laws, only the definition of military crime is defined by no law. Three: death penalty suspended, aggravated life imprisonment in place. Four: The statute of limitations has been harmonised with the Turkish Penal Code. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, many of the provisions of Law 3053 have been revoked by the Constitutional Court. Of these, the declaration of the service of military courts has been cancelled in military areas, and the 12th article, which also regulates the trial in joint crimes, has been cancelled. Thus, our Commission adopted the amendment to Law 353. According to this, the establishment of military courts was envisioned by considering the organization structures of military troops and the geographical situation they are in and the work density. The mandate of the military courts has been redesigned in accordance with the Constitutional amendments. The provisions for dropping the declaration of the ruling are proportional to the bill in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to abort. My dear friends, one of the most important articles of the bill, and the most controversial issue in our Justice Commission, is that with the bill, there is an independent and open Council of Military Judges. This board is an independent committee that will operate on the basis of the independence and the assurance of judgment of the courts. The duties of this committee are: this board will be in charge of disciplinary investigations of military judges and disciplinary sentences that may be issued at the end of these investigations. In addition, the board will have authority and duties in matters such as admission, appointment, transfer, permission, first-class separation, first-class education, suspension. The Council of Military Judges, held under Article 32 of the bill, will consist of four members selected from among the first-class military judges, with the proposal of the National Minister of Defence and the Minister of National Defence and the Prime Minister's approval. Article 9 of the bill organises disciplinary sentences for military judges, the procedure and the basis for disciplinary sentences of Article 10 and the basis for suspension from military judges. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, when the bill is fully considered, we see that regulations in accordance with our Constitutional amendments, the Constitutional Court's annulments, and the rules of the European Court of Human Rights have been made in accordance with the institutions and rules of civil justice, our Constitution, in accordance with universal law. I wish you well in this way, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0070par0272	Moving on to QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0071par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this bill, you say that as Secretary of State of Defense, the powers that are present in your person are now vested in this committee, and you say it's more democratic. But at the core of this, because of how military judges and prosecutors were elected, because they were actually accepted by this board, you will agree, they will decide within the framework of those board decisions, we carry such concerns. What are the admissions of military judges and prosecutors? Can you explain that?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0070par0276	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0072par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I called you the other day, and I called you, but unfortunately, after my phone call, you never returned my call, Mr. Secretary, even though I was told you were going abroad. I've been waiting for your call for days. And what I was going to talk about was that I was going to talk to you about this priced military issue, and since they were not able to complete the funds of the people who had already invested in the military, this time they were expected to be instructed to re-invest those coins by ignoring them. The government shouldn't lie on a man's money. The price, which previously amounted to 30,000 liras, has been reduced to 18,000 liras. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The citizen has invested $15,000, and he should have invested the remaining 3,000 liras. I was going to discuss it, but you didn't, you didn't call me.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0073par0281	Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0074par0282	Minister, I was going to say it on the stand, but there wasn't enough time. Now, in the bill, these assistant military judges and prosecutors are being removed, so there are current military judges and prosecutors' assistants, and I'm worried if there's going to be a problem here: of course, the judges who are on the stand, as part of those assistants, are employed there, so they're on the stand, they're on the stand, they're on the judge. Now, when it's removed, I look at it, we don't replace it, you don't replace it. There's also a situation where when these assistants go up, they can be appointed to administrative positions without being put on the stand, and they don't have to be put on the stand, so that's not going to be a problem? I actually tried to talk to our friends about it. I've been told that this can be arranged under regulations, but I'm concerned that the removal of the assistants will prevent them from having that experience on the stand, and they won't be able to judge.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0073par0284	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0075par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know some of your views on the penalties provided by this committee in particular. In order for this punishment to be imposed on the exchange penalty, it is foreseen that even though concrete evidence has not been obtained, it is now a very serious claim, Mr. Secretary. Is it proper, legal, or just?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0073par0287	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0076par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the speech you just made, you said that the board of military judges is in line with the universal norms of law. However, the European councils on judges have different decisions. The European Council of Ministers' recommendation on the independence, efficiency and role of judges states that the authorities who will decide on judges' elections and careers should be independent of law and execution, that the members of the board should be elected by the judiciary to ensure independence, and that the working procedures should be determined by these authorities in person. Also in the decision of the Council of European Judges Advisors, the Council of Ministers should not be involved in active policy, whether it is of judicial origin or not, parliamentarians, members of the government, members of the administration should not be part of the board. Are you aware of these decisions of the Council of Europe and the Committee of Ministers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0073par0290	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0077par0291	Minister, I've just been interrupted. Now, what I'd like to ask you is, are you going to put the money on top of the government because you've already paid for the military and then you can't afford it, or are you going to ignore them and ask for money again? Would that be the right thing to do? How many people are there in Turkey? That's what I want to ask you. There are also rumors about the removal of the police force and its commitment to the Ministry of Interior. This is a very dangerous issue. Our only army that does not belong to NATO is the Carabinieri. What will is it to destroy the gendarme like this? Has this been discussed in Oslo? That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0078par0294	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0079par0295	Thank you. A change in the Constitution of Military Judges and Law No. 6318 of 2012 has been abandoned as the basis of a promotion in first class. The year period of service was based on this amendment, and military judgeship, for example, has earned the right to a first-class term, which has completed 12 years and other conditions. The change in this favour was not applied again to military judges who had voluntarily retired before 2000, but only to military judges who were on duty again. Still victims of military judges who retired before 2000.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0078par0297	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0080par0298	Mr. President, thank you. I want to respond to the answers that come my way. Of course, I say that all decisions made by our board are subject to judicial control. From where did we get this judgment? The existing Judges and Prosecutors' Law, the HSYK Law, the same sentence in Article 69. Thus, we did not make any different judgment than they did. So we thought that this law was passed through Parliament's filter and legalized. We got the same one here, we didn't bring anything else. But there's one other good thing about ours, the judge. In the previous case, the HSYKs do not have that kind of judicial control. Again, would it be a problem for Mr. Turgut Bey to remove the aid? Because you're going to bring them to administrative procedures without being on the stand...... the candidates who have finished their internship will be appointed as judges and prosecutors on the stand, and we'll organise it with regulations, and they won't be appointed directly to administrative office. I was a lawyer, too. I think the best judges are gonna be lawyers. Why? He needs to see both sides of the table, from here and there. So there's no such thing here. Again, Mr. Gürkut Acar, first of all, I apologize, I was at a NATO meeting. When I return, my secretaries must inform me, or I can't say until now... or a congressman other than you can't say that I called the Minister, but he hasn't returned. From respect for Parliament, respect for national will... The answer to everything you say doesn't necessarily mean yes, and no is an answer, but we say no. Now, in the previous priced bill, the price was $30,000, and we had the opportunity to pay in two installments. They paid a installment, 15 grand, but they didn't pay the second installment. Our friends are at work, we have the legal counsel, and they're getting an opinion from the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- they gave an opinion. They received this demand, and I paid the Ministry: I paid 15,000, so I'll pay another 3,000, and I'll take advantage of it. There were demands. The legal opinion was given as follows: Since there is no such demand in the law, deposit 18,000 liras. But you said it, the government won't take it. We have issued a Council of Ministers decision because there is no price to be paid for the service that has not been given. I mean, if the government's gonna get something, it's gonna have to do a service. Therefore, we are returning this money from people who have paid 15,000 lira for paying the price of military service but have not paid for it. So we're going to return it, he's going to buy it, he's going to put it on top of 3,000 liras, he's going to deposit it back on us, that's it.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0081par0303	Why are you holding the ear upside down, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0080par0304	Yeah, that's right, that's right. I said, "Why is that?" Well, I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, I'm a law doctor, and one more thing, sometimes the minister doesn't decide everything, so let me be very clear. How can I put this? Here you have your legal counsels, here you have your opinions from everywhere, the opinion that comes to your attention: you have completed your degree, you have completed your military service, you have completed your degree; then, after you have completed your degree, or you have been denied your military time. We call on the soldier. These people say: "Look, you are taking advantage of those who have never served. I did part of my military service, at least at the cost -- not all 18,000 -- but the opinion from the legal counsel -- I did, and I made it very clear, I didn't sign the letter that came to me, but somehow the Undersecretary of the National Defence had to answer in some way. It's not the right approach, but sometimes you have to follow those opinions from the counseling department. So my personal opinion is... oh, what are they going to do? They're going to go to trial against the government's inadmissible procedures, and what I've done in the judiciary, we say, is an additional piece of evidence in their favor. Therefore, since the degree is not accepted in any way, I say that those who are cancelled must also take advantage of the law of paying military service, but the answer from my Ministry is against it. That's what my friends just said...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0081par0305	So this is what comes out of this, Mr. Secretary: I mean, I pick the board, but they don't listen to me.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0080par0306	I mean, sometimes there's procedure, and the governor knows that, you know, you know, friends from bureaucracy know that you have to follow the weighty tendencies of bureaucracy. Again, Mr. Akagun Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0082par0308	So there's no infinite national will. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0080par0310	Well, what shall we say, sir? So, we say, here, strengthen politics. You answer to the minister, you tell him when he's wrong, you complain to the citizen. Who are you going to complain to about the bureaucrat? The State Department of Defense under the requirements set by the Joint Chiefs of Staff... so it says that I need 10 judges. Again, the regulations for the rights of military judges in 2010 on the regulation of Mr. Eyidoğan's pre-employees before 2010 have not been reflected in soldiers who have retired before this date, as in the court of justice for the rights of military judges. Mr. President, I think that's it. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0083par0315	Well, you had time to...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0084par0318	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit02spe0083par0319	Yeah, I'll call the number of meetings. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'm doing roll call now. Mr. Özturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. İkkturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Özgük, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Öur Öner, Mr. Captain, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Logoğlu, Mr. Özgündüz... Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll get it started. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0083par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call was not enough for the meeting before the vote to transfer to the Articles of the Law Bill 685. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call and...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0085par0005	No minister, Mr. President, no Minister, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0083par0006	Before we do roll call, we haven't even gotten to that part, we're just doing roll call, and the next thing... [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 685. The Commission and the Government are here. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 25th article. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0086par0020	Mr. President, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I have been promised the draft of Military Judges' Code 685. I salute you all. I really want to say something here. In the European Union's accession process, in a Turkey in the process of negotiating, there has been a continuous literature of coup victimism in each election. They fought, they fought. They were always told that. According to the Copenhagen Criters of the European Union, armed forces should be at the disposal of civil authority, which is true. But for some reason, in Turkey, the Chief of Staff depends on the Prime Minister, who will be bound by the National Minister of Defence. Now, notice that the Chief of Staff, because of its loyalty to the Prime Minister, the National Minister of Defence, cannot attend meetings attended by the Chiefs of General Staff as Minister. And the Prime Minister, notice, he doesn't attend these meetings because he doesn't have a meeting at the Prime Minister level, it's a dimension. The second dimension is this: I was a young lawyer in the 80s, and I was involved in a book study on the establishment of military courts -- number 353. Then it was a military coup. Under martial law 1402, military courts have been functioning, working, and much debated. Well, there were officers who weren't lawyers, you remember, the disciplinary judge, but the officer judges would be court president. Then it was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, and then it went to the European Court of Human Rights, and then it was cancelled there, and since the issue of the military judge in the state security courts was considered a violation, during the coalition governments -- during that period -- Mr. Bal remembers -- when the decision was issued to convict the members of the DGMs, then the members of the military were removed from the DGM, and so on and so forth. Now, for God's sake, the government comes to us with a draft that takes over the military's custody. So he's supposed to be custody of the soldier, but he's not, he's bypassing the Constitutional Court's decision to establish custody of the administration over the judiciary. Now, when you pass this law, there's only one thing all military judges, prosecutors, have to do when they see the Minister of National Defense, in uniform, to take the main position and order Sivas, sir. When military judges and prosecutors see the Minister of Defense, here is Ahmet Ay, Sivas; order it, sir! Why? Because Mr. Secretary of Defense will appoint four members of the Military Court of Justice. Not enough, and he's the president. Is there anything more than that? Guys, what law is this? Now, I'll tell you another contradiction that I don't understand: since the Secretary of State is appointing four members of the Council of Military Judges, and he's the President. Such valuable, admirable commanders, judges, prosecutors, soldiers, all at the disposal of the National Minister of Defence, but when he gets permission to investigate -- be careful -- the Prime Minister of the General Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff will give him permission to investigate, the Minister of Interior will give him permission to investigate the General Staff and Coast Guard, as well as the permission to investigate the remaining staff and officer. What kind of contradiction is that, my friends? He will be president of both the court and the Military Court of Judges, and all the judges, prosecutors will fear him, and the Minister will have their records, their credentials, their promotions, their disciplines, and then you will only go to the Minister for permission to investigate the potato peelers at the barracks, what's this? Now, the Minister can't be so cool, man, and that's not gonna happen, so what are you doing? This law, these bureaucrats of yours don't know how to set it up when you bring them in, when you set them up? If he's going to be such a powerful minister, he's going to be the head of the board, why are you giving permission to officers, staff, driver, driver, supplier, logistics, what kind of guy? The Home Secretary, the governor, the gendarme's branch and the coast guard, he already has the police; you'll give the Prime Minister the permission of the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff... but what if the Prime Minister and the government commit crimes with these military commanders, who will give them their permission? This House will give it to you, won't it? This Parliament will issue an investigation according to the Constitution of 100. You saw it in the corruption files, did he give it to you? He didn't. I mean, there's something. We can't understand you, we're having trouble understanding you, you're saying: since this election is going to be between the presidential system and the current system. Since it's a presidential race, there's a division of forces -- justice, execution, legislation; there's a historical name, you can go to Montesquieu -- now, why do you want to turn this division of forces into a union of forces? You are already a majority in parliament; the government is coming out of you, the government is going out of you; it remains; you have taken the judiciary, the judiciary, and the ministry of justice, and you have taken the Council of Military Judges under the orders of the Minister of Defense. So, if this is called democracy, I'm sorry, who's telling you about this democracy class, who passed you through this class? You have to learn that well. Now, judicial unity is a rule passed in democratic countries. There may be military crimes, private courts, but you bring them, there may be an apartment in a Supreme Court's office, there may be disciplinary courts within the military, but that's a separate issue, but you can't separate military judgment, and when you put them, you disband the judiciary. And where will you find the lawyer Yilmaz, who is now a tyrant of the National Defence Minister? What defense ministers we've seen, we've seen, we've seen. I mean, it's not always the head of a legal minister. Now, suppose, in Syria, ISIS attacked Turkey and it was an extraordinary situation, and Parliament decided martial law, and it made an extraordinary decision. What's going to happen now? What about the Prime Minister? Friends who will be commanders of martial law. Why? Because he's the one who passes the commander's warrant for the investigation. Imagine that a government's prime minister becomes a martial law commander. They used to have military commanders, and they had the Joint Chiefs of Staff on them. Who gets the warrant for all this in court? The government, the Prime Minister and the ministers, will be handed over to them. Now, I'd like to move from here to here right now, not civilian control, but this. I'm sorry, that's not civilian supervision. It's called me, as well as the military justice, the prosecutor and everyone else. If you're going to tie him to you, you're going to make him independent of the judiciary, independent of the judiciary, you're going to make him a unit of the judiciary. Not the military Supreme Court, but the military courts, like the General Court, can easily investigate the commanders who were massacred in Roboski. Here, no one will be tired until prosecutors, as in the special prosecutor's decision, the court's decision of non-responsibility, as in the case of Roboski, which he sent to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It's just that if he's the Prime Minister's Joint Chief of Staff -- and Roboski has the Chief of Staff -- he's going to say, "I won't allow it, my friend. There's been mass murder, the plane has dropped the bombs, and I won't let you. I mean, we don't need the Parliamentary Commission, we don't need the investigations, we don't need the judge, we don't need the prosecutor. The law will come out of the mouth of Davutoglu. With this law, only you can steal the law! This law is a different law, it's another law. And from that law, you don't profit, the public doesn't. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0087par0034	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0088par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party over the first chapter of the Military Judgement Act, 685 rows. This is where we report our views. Now, as we draft this bill -- as we look at the notes -- we see that the Constitutional Court has two cancellations. One is that the Secretary of State of Defense cannot give disciplinary action against military judges. There is a Constitutional Court ruling that this is a violation of military judges' judicial guarantee and independence. This, as our friends have just said, is being reassembled by this motion of the Constitutional Court. How do you put it around? The Minister of National Defence won't give it, but what the Minister of Defense has appointed, or, in fact, proposed, and recommended, and appointed by the Prime Minister, will be given these sentences by the Council of Military Judges, where the impact of the execution is, the weight of its weight, will be issued, appointments, transfers, sentences, all of them. Does this mean the Constitutional Court's annulment has been passed? Now, however, along with this bill, military judges will not be able to make independent and impartial decisions. From now on, military judges will have to move closer to politicians in order to rise to certain authorities. The government will destroy the military judiciary for political purposes as well as the civil trial, it seems. To date, Turkey has always talked about the need to free the judiciary from two aspects of the judiciary, to include the military judiciary as a special court of expertise, and not to wear a uniform of military judges. The bill, however, has influenced politicians to free military courts from the influence of military commanders. If power really wanted to do something positive about the military judiciary, it should have taken a step in that direction, but it didn't. The government wants to say that I, however I control it, will also ignore the Constitutional Court's decisions. Now, I just asked Mr. Secretary, and I said, "Mr. Secretary, you've given examples from other countries, and you've mentioned in other countries that the ministers have appointed these boards again, and you said it's democratic. So, what are the conditions for hiring judges and prosecutors in other countries, and what is in our country? Now, if you're taking military judges and prosecutors with a commission under the supervision of the ministry, you can't expect them to be independent, Mr. Secretary. While you're showing examples of that Europe, you're probably ignoring that democratic position there, where judges and prosecutors are asked to be truly legal, to have real efficiency and integrity, outside of the political polemics of being elected. The main thing is that judges and prosecutors are independent, and guarantees are that they're not being taken for political reasons, but because they're actually legal. In both our judicial and military judiciary, unfortunately, the custody of the administration, the pressure of the administration, the pressure of the government begins there. You're ignoring this detail, this key trick, and I want to tell you about it. One of the cancellations of this Constitutional Court is the Supreme Court's decision to cancel certain issues, especially because they are not in the Military Penal Code, which exist in the Turkish Penal Code, and in the Law of Criminal Law, as there is no delay of these regulations on military crimes alone. We didn't go to the Constitutional Court as the People's Party of the Republic this time, but instead the various offices of the Military Judiciary have gone and the Constitutional Court has made its decision on 17/1/2013. How did he make his decisions, what did he say about it? If you look at one reason, it's actually very clear. It has been stated that the rules are contrary to the Constitutional Articles 2 and Article 10 (i.e. the Constitutional Court of Justice), which has ruled out the ability to personalize the sentence, which has caused inequality among soldiers and civilians, which cannot justify this distinction, such as the property of military discipline and military judiciary as its own specific attributes, and that the provision of this provision has been annulled by the Constitutional Court, taking into account the specifics of the perpetrator and the verb. There may, of course, be separate states of military punishment or regulations that can be applied on soldiers, because there may be a certain discipline involved, but even in the smallest punishments, it shows that delaying such delays, delaying alternative sanctions and the explanation of the verdict, or being turned into a bird, is still a nullification of the Constitutional Court's decrees. I would like to give you a brief example of the following: Now, there is a amendment to Article 1632 of the Military Penal Code 47, a change in postponement. In the beginning, it is said that the provisions of delaying the Turkish Penal Code are carried out here as well. This is the (1)th joke. It's called a separate judgment, and then what's supposed to happen is that it's gone, and it's turned into a bird. There will be no delays when there is a three-month or more prison sentence as a result of a trial for military crimes alone. And what is the sentence of the Turkish Penal Code? If he is sentenced to two years and fewer sentences, if he has not been sentenced to more than three months before, and if he agrees in court that he will not commit any regrets or crimes in the process of trial, he can be granted a suspended sentence of two years. Now, the Supreme Court has cancelled, and he said: "Let there be a measurement here." You can't completely remove the postponement from the Military Penal Code. On the one hand, a two-year suspension can happen when it comes to a two-year sentence in a court of law, but on the basis of military courts, three months according to the Military Penal Code. So this is a measurement, is it a measure of approach? Again, the Constitutional Court's annulment has been dismissed, followed by a mistrial. Likewise, an arrangement is being made in Article 29 of the framework on options sanctions. The application of Law 1632, or Article 8 of the Law on Military Penal Code, says that the article in Turkish Penal Code options can be applied to options in the same way according to Article 50. Again, a separate sentence is being issued by the term ▪ The result of the trial of military crime may be referred to as four months and less. Now, what is it, my friends, that you can apply for these elective sanctions in reference to the Turkish Penal Code, Article 50? If there are a year and fewer sentences, alternative sanctions can be applied. The judge is allowed to appreciate this, but you don't trust the judges in the military courts at all, so you're tying your hands. What are the options here, why not these? I mean, it's a one-year process, so it shouldn't be a crime that requires too much punishment, especially if it's a one-year sentence, why isn't there a one-year sentence here instead of four months? Why is it that working at certain educational institutions, for example, for two years, is not recognised to the defendants who are being tried in military courts, provided the damage is repaired? Against the Constitutional Court, it is against the principle of equality. There is no right attitude here, when it comes to applying for sanctions that are cancelled. Thirdly, this issue is also organised in Article 39 of the framework. It is said that the Court of Military Courts No. 353 and the additional Article 4 of the Law on Trials are applied again, the Article 2231. The postponement of the declaration of the government is carried out. It is carried out in sentences for up to two years, as lawmakers know, but what is being done here, and what is being done here? If he is sentenced to six months, there may be a postponement of the sentence. Likewise, the rights of military judges have been seized, which are contrary to the Constitutional Court's principle of equality. These articles, which he has cancelled, have been ignored. In this regard, each of you must have applications, especially to the members of the Constitutional Commission, especially to those who want to quit military medicine or who want to leave the military in certain professions, and therefore have been told that the penalties are too severe, and that they are seriously victimised because they are unable to apply for these sanctions or to announce the verdict... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and the Constitutional Court's rulings should also increase these sentences, and should be parallel with the Turkish Penal Code. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0089par0057	Thank you. Members of parliament, it is now incumbent on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Faruk Bal. At the same time, Mr. Bal is also required to speak on behalf of himself, which will be used by combining the two declaration requests. Speech time is 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0090par0063	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute you all. The draft law brought before you is about adapting to constitutional amendments and making a number of regulations in the military judiciary according to the Constitutional Court's cancellation verdicts. In view of these two reasons, the National Movement Party will give its positive contributions to the bill, limited to this. However, after the Supreme Court, after the Supreme Court, after the Supreme Court, the AKP wants to adopt the military judiciary as an excuse. The military judiciary is a problem in Turkey before we go into what the Minister has expressed in his speech. He has been a problem with martial law courts, he has been a problem with military courts, then he has been a problem with DGMs, he has been a problem with private authorities. Then, with the return of the 17-25 December corruption operation, we face the project of the Military Court, the Supreme Court, and the AKP (AKP) following the HSYK. My dear friends, there is no need to go to the Netherlands, as the Minister stated, there is no need to go to Sweden, there is no need to go to England, there is no need to go to France, we all know that. The destination is the AKP headquarters. There, only the signature of the members of the Constitutional Compromise Commission appointed by the AKP headquarters and the proposals of the AKP concerning the military judiciary. The National Movement Party has also been on this commission and has submitted original proposals to ensure that the military judiciary can be made in line with democratic values, and a large part of it has been accepted. On the other hand, according to AKP's proposal to the Reconciliation Commission, there is no military judiciary, no military Supreme Court, no military Supreme Court, no military appeal court; there is only a military disciplinary tribunal; there is no military crime. So, there was a U-turn. We need to know the reason for this U-turn. And it's enough to look at the law to understand your reason. Now, we all know how to politicalize HSYK-like HSYK -- a Board of Military Judges is being established. The chairman of this board, Mr. Secretary. This is acceptable, we have no objection, but who are the members? The minister's recommendation will be those who are appointed by the Prime Minister. My dear friends, when we come here, it is consistent with the events we've experienced that the AKP will not be able to become a member if it is not an ally. What's this board gonna do? This board will look at all the powers of military judges, such as appointment, transfer, promotion, permission, discipline, temporary duty. Only the Minister will be able to determine the agenda of this board; only the Minister will allow the investigation into military judges. This means: Military judiciary will be brought to AKP. Looking back, I'd like to share a few of his samples with you. There's a judge; this judge shoots, writes on Facebook: "We love you, RTE (Recep Tayyip Erdoğan) because those who don't love you have never loved this nation, because the Zionist Israel and its collaborators didn't love you because you are one of us, because God bless you, and bless you for us." Who is this judge? Mr. Secretary, this judge is now a justice of the peace working as AKP's intensive care unit. Who is this judge? This is the judge who arrested the cops who arrested the evidence in the 17-25 corruption operation. Now, that's AKP's idea of judgment. We're concerned that there'll be a similar one in the military jurisdiction. Another judge... this judge says, "Long live the tall man." We know who the tall guy is, from the short guy. Who is this judge? This judge is also a judge who conspired in the judiciary; a judge who looked into the investigation of police officers who had obtained evidence in 17-25 corruption operations, and a judge who was told, "Run, Ismail, run!" We fear that such a judge will be reflected in military judgment. In other instances: A lawyer named HSYK has been elected from a superior victory in the election as the president of the Bar to thank the AKP Kayseri province for its success in serving the AKP. This is the politicalization of the judiciary. Another example is that your president of the Pendik Women's Arms -- APP/in -- has been elected a member of your city council member HSYK. That's your choice, you'll bring judges like that there. In its thousands of years, the Turkish Armed Forces have done heroics, opened the age, and closed the era, looking for right, law, justice and discipline. We are strongly and furiously against the AKP's adoption of this institution, and we will continue to oppose it. Dear President, members of parliament, the proposed by the National Movement Party to the Constitutional Compromise Commission is perfectly reasonable and appreciated by everyone. Of course, there is no need for a military Supreme Court. Of course, there is no need for a Supreme Court of Military Government. These can be formed in the normal judiciary, the Supreme Court, and the Court, in which they can be transformed into apartments to look after military business. Now, you're thinking about HSYK. The National Movement Party has offered alternative models to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Come, with these alternative models, taking into account the hierarchy of the Turkish Armed Forces, traditions, regulations and discipline -- since we all have the Armed Forces, the judiciary is our jurisdiction -- let's come up with a common solution. But you won't find it, because you need it, because just as the Justice and Development Party is the victim of a coup, they're going to drop me again, they're going to hit me, they're going to assassinate me. In 2010, in my speech here on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I said that you have eliminated the balance and control organs within yourself, creating an unstable and unsupervised judiciary, which is similar to Jurassic Park. Now you've come to that point. Now, when you, in 2010, uncovered evidence about the presence of the group, in your vaults, in the boxes, in the children of the ministers, in the bedrooms of the ministers, in the arms of the ministers, not the independence of the judiciary, but the neutrality of the judiciary, not only in 2014, and only in order to get rid of this crime, you made the HSYK political. You politicalized the Constitutional Court just yesterday's election. You raised the number of members of the Supreme Court to 516, creating the world's obese, fattest, most cumbersome Supreme Court. Again, with yesterday's election, you have elected the Supreme Court Chairman, a person who has previously issued a non-obtainment and acquittal of a corruption case by Mr. President. You've raised the number of members of the State to 195, you've won the majority, and you're building new AKP-backing agencies there to win the majority in the presidential election and the First Presidential Board. 16. The apartment, what's it gonna do? The 9th Supreme Court you've just created. A second 16 that you replaced with the Department of Corrections. What's the apartment gonna do? All of their work will be to serve as the authorities to clean up AKP's corruption and filth. One in administrative court, one in 17-25 corruption operations and some abuses. That's how you bend and twist the judgment, that's how you pinch it. The day will come, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, and you will be tried on that trial. The day will come, no one will live, and these seats won't care for you, and this power won't last, you'll go. Pharaohs are gone, kings are gone, tyrants are gone, dictators are gone, Saddams are gone, and you are gone. And when you're gone, come and leave a pleasant sound in the sky. Come, let your name be mentioned in these good deeds, and at least you can do a good deed for the functioning of the judiciary. Come, do not burn the Hereafter for the sin of others, to cover up corruption and theft. Do not be of the dumb devils, who are silent in the face of injustice. My dear friends, in this framework, the National Movement Party finds this bill to be contrary to universal values. This is contrary to the universal values of justice and the sanctity of justice that humanity has developed. Two: This is against the acquish of the European Union. Three: This is against the constitutional proposal submitted by the Justice and Development Party to the Constitutional Commission. Four: This violates the Constitution's principles regarding the guarantees of judges, about independence, neutrality of courts, and about the state of law. These discrepancies can't be fixed. There's no way these contradictions can be fixed by negotiations here. This bill is to be extradited to the commission. Of course, in the internal discipline of the Armed Forces, the principles of the hierarchy are also observed -- the military judiciary -- I say we pass this bill with a consensus that can be followed in accordance with the rules of the 21st century. My dear friends, of course you will insist. I know why you insist, it's in the bill. It says that the Court of Military Judges shall decide according to the principles of the independence and neutrality of the judiciary and the assurance of judgment in the Constitution. Because the AKP understands the independence of the judiciary, the judiciary is a AKP-led judiciary, and it is independent of the opposition to the AKP. The AKP understands the neutrality of the judiciary, the judiciary that pledges allegiance to the AKP is neutral, and of course it is called neutral against the opposition of the AKP. Justices who are convicted by AKP's statements are under the personal guarantee of the person in charge of the AKP, not the Constitution, not the legislation. Thus, the institution, which has guaranteed neutrality and independence on the basis of the rule, is universal, in line with the European Union's acquisitor, compliant with AKP's proposals to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Now, how can you describe the judges I've just given their samples to and have shared with you here in the press as an impartial judge? How can a judge who says, "Run, Ismail, run. Long live the tall man." Those who don't love you are Israelis, neoconcists. We don't like them. How can a judge who reveals his very ideological, clear side be independent? These judges are biased, these judges are not independent, and the guarantee of these judges is the personal guarantee of the person at the top of the AKP. Thus, such a judgment is not a judgment that can be used on behalf of the great Turkish nation. They are, however, those who have been given the AKP's jurisdiction on behalf of the AKP. We are opposed by the National Movement Party for Military Supreme Government Court, Military Judiciary and other military judicial institutions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our objections to these parts of this law will be brought back to the High Assembly by offering anti-constitutional motions, and I salute you all with the hope of a truly independent, truly impartial judgment in the next process.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0091par0086	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is from Congressman Bilal Ucar. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0092par0090	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of my own people on the Military Judgement Act of 685 rows. I hereby salute the General Assembly. From history to today, every state needed an army to preserve its existence. In history, the Turkish nation has established states of jihan, marked world history by its powerful armies. In the last century, the Turkish Armed Forces, both in Çanakkale, and in the Battle of Salvation, set the foundation for the establishment of the independent Republic of Turkey. The duties of the Turkish Armed Forces are laid down on Article 211 under Article 35. The fulfillment of these tasks obliges different regulations regarding the Armed Forces. Since the Military Penal Code concerns only those in a certain situation and is generally protected by the legal interest of the state of law, it is also inevitable that different regulations in the Turkish Armed Forces should be made in accordance with the principle of rights and freedoms, protecting military discipline and preventing criminal acts, as a part of the general penal code does not exist in particular. As many legal regulations under the European Union's accession process have affected the judicial and administrative judiciary, it has also affected the military judiciary held under Article 145. In this regard, some important amendments have been made regarding the military judiciary of the Constitution. In addition to these changes of harmony, some provisions of the Military Penal Code have been subject to the Supreme Court's annulment. There have been serious gaps in these cancellations, especially in discipline and superior relationships. These developments have made some changes to the military penal code mandatory. This bill envisions restructuring the establishment of military courts in accordance with the conditions of the day, as well as the geographical state of the military's body structures and locations, as well as the work density of the courts. The amendments to Law 353 have been made in accordance with the grounds of the Constitutional Court's annulment, in order to eliminate the disciplinary failure of the provisions that would not be enforced for military crimes. Again, the amendments to Law 353 have been envisioned to be carried out in the court of law, in the case of military courts involving non-military persons, in the case of a crime subject to the jurisdiction of military courts, in the case of military judiciary, and in the case of non-military persons. Disciplinary investigations of military judges and these investigations must be issued by an independent committee based on disciplinary penalties and the independence of the courts and the assurance of judgment. Based on this requirement, amendments to Law 377 have been made to ensure that an independent and decision-making Council of Military Judges has been established, that military judges will be needed by the General Staff of General Staff, the international headquarters, the institution, the institution, and so on, can be assigned to international courts and institutions and off-site positions. I salute the General Assembly, wishing this bill to be a blessing.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0093par0100	Thank you. There is a motion in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code on the continuation of the first chapter of the Law Bill 685: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your imposition is 72. In accordance with Article 685, the Law on Military Judges and the First Amendment to Some Laws. We demand and demand to continue negotiations on the section. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk The main element of this bill is the Council of Military Judges (ASHK), which is organised in Articles 13, 14th, 15th and 16th. With these regulations, the military judiciary has been asked to take full control of the political will. The adoption of the ASHK regulations that constitute the essence of the bill will create new problems for the democratic state of law of our Republic, which is found in Article 2 of our Constitution. As a result of the numerous changes in law and implementation of the AKP's rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the problems that have arisen in neutral and independent judicial processes in recent years will be added by this arrangement. 1-A structure is thought to be the head of this committee, which will consist of five people, the Minister of National Defense. The other four members of the board will be selected by the Prime Minister among the first-class judges the Minister of National Defence will recommend. 2-The Minister will single-handedly determine the agenda of this board. The other members of the board have no authority to set the agenda and call the board to a meeting. 3- In the event of the election of lower-ranking military judges the Minister will recommend to this board, these members will have a say in the procedures of senior military judges such as appointment, punishment and promotion. This will negatively affect military order and order. The four-year term for re-election of board members has been dominated by the bill. This will make it possible for four military judges to make decisions to be re-elected and to keep the minister's word. 5- As part of this board formation envisioned in the bill, 2010 is a way back even from the HSYK prior to constitutional amendments. 6-In view of the lack of independence and violation of the principles of the Court's independence and judicial guarantees, the appointment made by the Council would not be appropriate. This board, which is intended to be formed by the 7-Deposit, will be able to control and regulate the military judiciary as much as it wants as it wants. 8- Constitutional Court (June 2004, 2014 and 2013/82 E., 2014/100 K. In its decision, "the authority of the MSB, which is part of the executive body, which directly affects the rise of military judges in the profession, can raise distrust and doubt about the independence and neutrality of military judges on the sides of the trial. The possibility of such distrust and suspicion... is contrary to the principles of the independence of the courts and the assurances of judgment..." and has annulled the sentence of the Minister of National Defence for disciplinary action against military judges. 9- In addition to the removal of the warnings and reprimanding sentences in the existing law by the MSB by the AYM, in addition to these sentences, it is expected to be given by the Council (inclusion/9), which is far more severe (inclusion and degree progress, resolving from placement and occupation) of the sentences may once again be annulled by the Constitutional Court, which may arouse confidence and doubt in the independence and neutrality of military judges (in accordance with the CSB and the four elected members of the Courts). On these grounds and on the basis of the word limitation, for other reasons written in the Opposition Court, the first of the bill was not given a place in the motion. It is important to continue negotiations on the department.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0094par0122	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit03spe0093par0123	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. İkturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Akova, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Captain, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Huseyin Aygün. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the motion to continue the talks under Article 72 of the Civil Code, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm gonna do another roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. There's enough for a meeting. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Unacceptable. We will continue negotiations with Bill 685. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, we're going to do a QA on the first part of the bill. Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Right and Mr. Lightning who had already entered the system, I read their names to get them back into the system. Now, I'll start, and the other guys can get into the system. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0095par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: How many staff members have left in the last five years when he's been an expert in the Turkish Armed Forces as a private and private and has not signed a contract in the past five years? How many of these personnel have been able to start off as officers to other institutions? Is there any study in the Turkish Armed Forces in the coming period of time about the direct appointment of those who have worked and who have been separated to the government office, the search for a staff, or the deployment of those who are empty? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0096par0019	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0097par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just asked you how the judges and prosecutors in our military courts were taken, but our friends in other countries certainly have samples, if you could pass them along... And I'd like to ask you, because of these conspiracy lawsuits, there are a lot of trained men left the Navy, the Air Force, and the Army. And you made it known with the questions We had given you. Are you going to have any attempt to get the grown-up guys to come back? Because they were scared, threatened, these people. The Turkish Armed Forces lost their trained staff, their people. These threats were made to people who worked on national projects in particular. Do you have any initiative in this matter? And in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to abort, do you intend to bring any regulation that is a little bit more parallel to the implementation of the Turkish Penal Code and the Law on Punishments, in order to delay, and delay the declaration of the verdict?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0098par0024	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0099par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is this bill, by any chance, taking an opinion from the State Department of Defense's Joint Chiefs of Staff? You asked for an opinion from the Chief of Staff, but how much of these did you honor? How much of what this Chief of Staff has proposed have you evaluated? I'm curious about that. And, Mr. Secretary, since you've brought in this system of yours, military judges, given the order and command of the Secretary of State of Defense, isn't the 9th article infringement on the use of judicial authority in the name of the Turkish nation by independent courts? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0100par0029	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0101par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in order to speak of judicial independence, the higher boards that also exercise authority over courts and judges must also be independent. From a civilian judiciary standpoint, this is the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Now, with this bill, you're trying to form an HSYK-like board in military jurisdiction. My question is, what would be the impact of the judicial independence of a military jurisprudence, which is not only representation, but also a member of the Ministry of National Defense, which is also a member of the administration, which is a member of even the agenda of the Minister of Justice, who has the right to demand a change of agenda? In such a case, can the military judiciary be adopted as an independent judiciary, or is a military judiciary and Turkish Armed Forces being targeted under the control of this bill?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0102par0033	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0103par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in cases referred to as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, İstanbul Espionage, the Constitutional Court has begun retrial proceedings and they are being tried in court. They're in serious trouble because their only conviction is in the criminal record during this trial. Do you intend to make any attempt on this matter? And, in the process, in which they were imprisoned, I'm guessing they didn't get some of their autonomy rights. Do you have any thoughts about their victimization?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0104par0037	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0105par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to write down the issue of Mr. Right. Again, is there a study of the appointment of only those who have been separated? We know that there is no such study. We know there's a problem, but there's too many of them. If we get these, the doctor won't get them, we don't get them, we don't get teachers, we don't get the police. Therefore, the state has a permit to transfer from a deficit given by budget law every year, with a certain number of recruitments. So it's not an easy problem, but there's a problem, we know that. Mr. Minister, there is no study of this -- its identification -- but there is such a demand for what is available, and what can happen? Some local municipalities can take it. When I was working in public before, they were employed as security personnel for the protection of historical sites, but when there were too many, it filled up. It's not always possible to meet such a request. Is there any study of the return of those who left the army? We don't have a study. Usually, for any reason, no matter how he left the Armed Forces, they're never allowed back into the Armed Forces. You know, it's possible for the MPs to leave every institution and come back when they can't be elected. There are two exceptions: one is the judiciary, one is the Armed Forces. Therefore, we are not doing any work on the return of those who have left the Armed Forces for any reason. Again, the question of Mr. Acar. Is the General Staff's opinion on this law received, of the Joint Chiefs of Staff? In general, the law works in our Ministry of National Defense are carried out by consideration of the needs of our General Staff. So in the Ministry of National Defense, a need by itself doesn't exist in exceptional situations. Therefore, the Chief of Staff receives an opinion from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, comes to the Ministry of Defense, sends it to all other ministries, where it goes to the Council of Ministers, along with the opinion received from them. It enters the Council of Ministers from our Chief of Staff, from other ministries. Well, I think it's pretty much what's left in the Council of Ministers, except for this appointment clause, which is the upper council clause, that's what's being agreed upon by our Chief of Staff, except for that Council of Judges. That's where the Minister was headed again. Those members were counted from other places; he was not eligible in the Council of Ministers. Again, the other thing is that it has something to do with judicial independence... with the higher boards. This is an administrative unit. So I'm saying we shouldn't associate the administrative unit with judicial independence. We ask judges to make a decision by considering their conscience and the current legal order when it comes to the case. That's what it's called, that's where it goes. Let's say that if it's in Judge Hakkari, whatever the case is, it doesn't make legal decisions, no matter what the legal order, but if it's in Istanbul, it's in accordance with the legal context of the case. But we're saying that because of the appointment... So, I've just told you, with this law, there's no authority granted to the Ministry of National Defense. On the contrary, we've assigned all authority in the Ministry of National Defense to a board of judges. What's a board there? Well, there are four first-rate judges, and the Secretary of Defense will decide. We don't trust the judges you're going to appoint, but I can't get these judges to come and throw them away from the outside, the civilian. The judge does his duty, when he's on the table for 12 years, when he's on the stand, when he's on the stand, when he's on the bench, when he's on the case, when he's in front of the case, but let's just say, "Hey, let's drop it and join the administration." I'm sorry, we don't trust him. Another thing, again, about the conviction in your criminal record. In the event the execution is dropped, this Article 312 will not delay the execution of the decision to renew the decision. However, the court decides whether the execution should be dropped or stopped. There is such a thing. Therefore, it is a legal procedure, and whatever decision is made as a result of the trial will be carried out according to that decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0106par0049	In other countries, judges, prosecutors...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0105par0050	Let friends look at other countries, let them work, and let us deliver it to you in writing, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0107par0051	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are three motions on the first article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the 1st Amendment. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Serindağ Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution; I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata Ali Halaman Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0108par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0107par0079	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0109par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0107par0081	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0110par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on the 1st Article of Law Bill 685 that is being discussed. I salute the High Council. We have prepared this motion because of the violation of the Constitution of Article 1 of Law Bill 685, so we submit it to the discretion of the High Assembly. On the basis of this clause, we propose that military judges' registration documents are being filed, that the main issues to determine the record note will be determined by the National Department of Defence regulations, which will be adopted by the State Department of Defense, in order to subject military justice to the control of the governing body, as well as the aim of politicising military judiciary, such as politicalized judicial and administrative judiciary. Honourable MPs, of course, the law gives some rights to part of Turkish Armed Forces personnel. However, the fact is that you've had a lot of problems from military personnel to your general. One of those problems, in particular, is about people who have been separated from military contractors or privates while working in the military. These people, given the amount of time they're working, get the right to become government officials, but because of a loophole, they're allowed to appoint, and they're starting to go after politicians in a very intense way, and I'm going to find a staff, and they're going to be assigned there. They're going to keep insisting on it. I don't think that's true, because I think you'd be thinking the same thing if you were to see or experience the problems that these people are going through by going door-to-door to-door, at the point where the victims are being relieved. Thus, if at least our people who have worked for a certain period of time can be given a right to horizontal transition in this direction, if not all of them, if, given a right to our people who have worked for a certain amount of time, based on the situation of success, we can eliminate the victims of these people. Look, as of today, as this law is being discussed, again, many of our valued citizens from Tokat, from their districts, express that they want to take advantage of this appointment. They expect it to be easier to assign something to him by bringing in or within this law another law. And I'm trying to make a point of expressing the words of our dear countrymen from here. Of course, among other things, contract officers and petty officers differ greatly in their rights as compared to their exemplary staff, and they are also wanted by that professional group. Also, the lack of guarantees in renovating their contracts suggests some very serious injustices, which is at some point a violation of human rights. Because these people are trying to plan a healthy life, but we also see that their morale and motivations are in decline in the sense of whether or not the contract can be re-approved or not, resulting in psychological disorders. We also see that people's enthusiasm for work and their love have been broken. Among other things, our regulars, our retired petty officers, have very serious problems. Although Petty Officers' schools have been upgraded to the university level since 2002, we also see that these retired people still haven't been implemented. And because of their lack of initiative, they say that there are significant differences between our retired soldiers, and that almost 500 lira is unfairly paid to others because of the fact that they haven't had them, but they're not paid to them. Besides, we have civil servants working in the Ministry of National Defense or the Turkish Armed Forces. We have to say that civil servants have a lot of problems. Our civil servants want to be tried in civil courts, especially in various matters related to the law. In addition, they also have a serious problem with the rise in the mission, so we have to make improvements in these matters according to some precedents. In addition, specialized gendarmes want their rights restored. I also want to tell you that all military personnel from social facilities -- from military officers to civil servants -- are willing to take advantage of his pension. Of course, we also have to express that the state of the Republic of Turkey is in the most beautiful geography in the world; the Anatolian geography is a geography with everyone's eyes on it. Here, in this environment, our Turkish Armed Forces are our eyes. The strengthening of the Turkish Armed Forces and not wearing it out should all be within our wishes. We, the National Movement Party, have been very concerned about the latest developments in our country. So, when we look around this point, I think the Turkish Armed Forces should be in a very strong position when we look at the games that are being played on the Turkish state. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0111par0097	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, since the motion I'm about to make now is the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st Amendment of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the 1st Amendment. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0112par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0111par0109	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0113par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0111par0111	Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0114par0112	Motive...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0111par0113	I'm having it read. The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Mr. Serindağ, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0115par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 1 of Bill 685. I salute you all. Article 1 organises the records of military judges. Now, Mr. Secretary, I would like to point out to you, in your words, that in your speech, the Parliament has chosen the Judiciary Council in Sweden.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0116par0121	Not all of them... eight of them... some of the judges...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0115par0122	You did.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0116par0123	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0115par0124	Now, I wish we could do that in Turkey, even though the culture of democracy in Sweden, the culture of Parliament, is in Turkey. Did you or did you not see that a party that received 34 per cent in Sweden gained 65 per cent of the majority in parliament? Do you, can you see that in Sweden? You can't. Secondly, if you consider what the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Burhan Lamb, the Minister of the Four Ministers, has said about the commission report, will he or she not say what Mr. Lamb, the head of a constitutional commission, said there? What's he saying? The boy is ours and the girl is ours. Then, unfortunately, we cannot compare the Swedish Parliament with our Parliament, if we are to call Parliament this way. I wish we had the same democratic culture. What's he saying? Am I crazy? My political life is over. Some are my bros, some are my in-laws. Is he crazy or what? Now, I mean, you've all read it. The President of the Constitutional Commission of our Parliament, unfortunately, is making such an assessment. I wish you could connect your evaluations with the democratic culture that exists in our country. Did you hear a prime minister in Sweden say, "If they can afford it, let them destroy it; I will enter it, I will sit in it." Can you imagine something like that, imagine something like that? Could there be such a thing in Sweden? Oh, no. Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, this is what's in our country. In Sweden, institutions are strong. In Sweden, not everything is done according to the word between one man's two lips. So, I wanted to bring this to your attention. Another thing is, you say, if there's a judge's audit, you have to trust it. Is that right? But you were the one who didn't trust the judgment, and you were the one who said, "There was a parallel structure in the judge." Now, what are you doing? You're trying to create your own parallel structure in the judiciary, and you're trying to manipulate the Armed Forces. Therefore, these had to be considered when we transferred this bill here. Gene, in another speech, or rather in one part of your speech, you cited Law 4482. You know, Law 4482 is a law that demonstrates the method of trial of officers and other civil servants. Look, officer. If you're bringing the judges to official status, then we have nothing to say. So, what do we say? Now, how do we talk about judicial independence? So I wanted to bring this to your attention. So, in short, Mr. Secretary, before you change these laws, you have to go to a change of mind. You need a change of mind, that's what's supposed to happen. You bring the laws here according to AKP's needs, not because they are born out of a public need, and you always do it wrong. Notice that by the 2010 referendum, all constitutional amendments passed through this Parliament by unanimous vote until 2010. After that, I say that the law and the Constitutional Amendment are now a means of tension, and I give you all respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0131	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0118par0134	Roll call...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0135	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Dibek, Mr. Ökturk, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Pine, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Light, Mr. Değirmerdereli, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Bayaktutan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 2. I'll have them read and processed in order. We'll have three votes, so don't go if you want. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current 685 Rows. In the last article of the article, we propose and propose that the sign be placed after the declaration of the military judge. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 2 of the 2nd Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that its clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0119par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0172	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0120par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0174	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0121par0176	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are asked to be legalized as to how to regulate military judges' record notes with the 2nd article of the bill. When we look back on the first article of the bill, it says that the issues that would be essential to determining the Sici note will be determined by the regulation issued by the National Ministry of Defence. So, the Minister of National Defence is a political figure, under a political will, and as an executive body, he will do the necessary political will. Now, it is against the state of law to issue regulations to determine such a record on the matter of the judiciary. The Constitution has bound the 1st Article Node for the politicalisation of the judiciary, which is defined by the Constitution's record as scaring judges, aligning the judges with the record, and creating co-existent judges. It is not in harmony with the rule of law that the 2nd article and the record of military judges are arranged in such a manner. We all know it doesn't need a Constitution based on the general reason of the bill. We also know that this is not a judicial arrangement to ensure the independence of the judiciary and its neutrality. This is a bill aimed at politicising the Turkish Armed Forces directly after HSYK, after the Supreme Court, after the Supreme Court, after the Supreme Court and the Court. This leads to a disastrous outcome. Because, because there is a judiciary on one side, as a place where everyone can rely, it is against all sorts of human values, against universal values, contrary to the European Union's acquisitor, which is against the text of the Constitution Compromise Commission, which is its own text, which is against our current Constitutional Compromise Commission, but on the other hand, it's against anything else. That's when governments collapse, of course it's something. If two elements survive the collapse of the states, then it is not possible to bring down those states from the inside or from the outside. One is the armed forces, the other is the judicial and judicial bureaucracy. Look at the date and look at the recent date. If there are unbreakable states, either the armed forces are very strong or the judiciary is very strong, but it is not about the fact that the AKP is able to maintain the state's functions, it is not about its purpose. On the contrary, the AKP, which has a sense of embossing its political opinion into state organs with a problem with the state, is unfortunately making such a mistake, planting a seed that could result in internal unrest, internal conflicts, and in the wake of these conflicts and unrest. But you're not afraid of that as the AKP. Mr. Bulent Arinc warns, we have polarized society, we have a lot of hate speech. It's not ours, it's AKP's. That's not a good thing. What if tomorrow those of you who are restless, polarized, and who are not of you, can't claim the rights of what you've done in law, if they can't seek justice, if they can't find a democratic way out? What's going to happen is simple: everyone's going to try to get what's rightfully theirs. Ganging, mobilizing, social conflict, that's why it's turning into an ethnic and religious thing. So the path you're going is not the way you're going. This is not a forward democracy. This is literally a step towards the construction of advanced dictatorship. History will write you like this, and future generations will judge you like this, and I hope our motion will be judged positively by the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0178	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0122par0179	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0180	You want the number of decisions, I'll call the number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 2 of the 2nd Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session. Husamettin Zenderlioğlu (Bitlis) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0123par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0188	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0124par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0117par0190	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0125par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, the most important issue in Turkey is the issue of justice. There is no justice in Turkey. The final arrangements for justice are all about eradicating the independence of the judiciary, taking all military justice and civil justice under the command of civil authority. As a result, it creates a situation where the uncle, the back, the one with the power, is protected, and the other is oppressed by the opponents, the victims. That means there's no social peace where there's no justice. The famous word of Duverger is: "Where there is no justice, anyone can become guilty. " I mean, with these laws, with these deductions, with these controls, with these controls, if you ignore universal law, if you ignore the 6th article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and also ignore it, destroy it, change it, can you find justice in the suspected deaths of 6,000 soldiers in the military court? 6,000 people died. So, about the trial of the last three soldiers killed in Ceylanınar, why did they suddenly get the public phone call, I don't know, personal matter, and shoot each other? Which someone came in, where they shot the soldiers. Now, what are you going to do if there's no port for a man who sent his child to the army and he's being shut down by civil authority? Where will you take refuge? There was a shift at the Supreme Court, what happened? 11 judges were appointed, one of them was chosen in your reign. I'm in favor of the separation of forces, he says. At the time, he described the decisions of the Constitutional Court in 2007 as "aggressive." The Supreme Court President has changed, and he says I'm in favor of the separation of forces. But when we get here, we're looking at a unit of forces. Giving the forces to one man, giving the command of one party, and eliminating justice, creating an unjust country is playing with the DNA of the society, my friends. We've all seen it, we've lived it. If the person has no security or freedom of life, if the right to live is threatened, if he has no right to a fair trial, if he has no freedom of rights, if he has no freedom of character, if he has no freedom of thought and expression, if he cannot maintain his rights, if he cannot seek his rights, when he goes to the gates, and when justice is over in that country, there is a right to be served where justice ends. It's very dangerous. It's a matter for every lawyer to know. These judicial regulations are not something to be done in favor of political authorities, conjunctually. The justice of a country is shaped according to universal law, the 90th article of the Constitution was laid for this, you bring it, you set up a judicial system in light of the values of the Court of European People and of the Convention, and we all agree, but unfortunately, that's how you destroy it. The plague of this is on your neck. I've been promised to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0126par0196	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current 685 Rows. In the last article of the article, we propose and propose that the sign be placed after the declaration of the military judge. Turgut Dibek and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0127par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0126par0204	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0128par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0126par0206	Mr. Original, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0129par0208	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, this law, in general, is the law of the military, which binds the judiciary to political power. That's the gist of it, there's no need to go into detail. He's been elected President of the Constitutional Court, and what you want is a man of power, and good luck. He's been elected Supreme Court Chairman, and again, what the political government wants, what it supports, and good luck. And now, with this law, you're going to link the military judiciary to political power again. Here, this law brings in an HSYK-like arrangement as the Military Judiciary Board of Judges. However, you're actually complaining about HSYK, so you're complaining about the 159th Amendment, along with the 2010 amendment, and the Minister of Justice is complaining, so let's fix the bride. Why? Because unlike that, the president of the board here will be the National Defence Minister, sir, and the members, among the first-class judges to recommend the five members, the Prime Minister will approve and be the board. What will this board decide? This committee will decide whether the judges will be employed, replaced, punished, discharged from the profession. Mr. Secretary, for God's sake, if I asked you right now, count five first-class judges. Do you know? You don't know, you don't know, it's against the nature of the matter. Who are you going to ask, the Chief of Staff or the Chief of Staff? Look, your fellow soldiers, military judges, sir, they may not have warned you about this with various debates, which is absolutely unconstitutional. The Constitution says: "As long as you are a member of the political power, the Minister of the National Defence, there is no independence of the judiciary. Even when we entered law school, teachers used to say that when there was a political power, a government head of a committee in a country where judges were appointed, replaced, registered, sentenced, and there was no mention of judicial independence if there was a member of the board -- the Minister of Justice -- there was no mention of judicial independence here. When you're called that, you bring the military judgment to you completely; not to yourself, but to the Prime Minister; not to the Prime Minister, in fact, to the President. The Prime Minister is just standing there, like a completely ineffective, unauthorized employee for the time being. Where are you going to get information about the people you're going to recommend here now, when you don't get it from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the legal counsel? You're gonna get it from national intelligence? Hakan Fidan's gone too, so the replacement will determine? So what are you trying to do? Friends, there's no, there's no technicality, there's no technicality, there's this clause in the Military Courts Act... This law -- whether you approve or not, I'll tell you, it's all up to one person in the military. It connects to one person, connects to the person upstairs right now. So the reason why he wants the presidential system and wants the presidential system, sir, is because I want to work with the guy I want. I'm taking a public servant out of office, he's leaving, he's coming in from the judge's office, he's sitting down. Would such a thing happen? He who says such a thing, who sees the judgment as a liability, who wants such a model, who wants the kingdom system, also attributes military judgment to him. The Supreme Court is already in order, the Supreme Court is in order, the HSYK is in order, the Secretary of State of Defense, the Prime Minister will be the subject model, and the military judiciary will be in my hands. I mean, what in God's name are you trying to do? Look, this one turns, he'll shoot you tomorrow. You guys are dealing with the bolts of the system. Don't bother, you'll get caught up in this. Give up these arrangements. It is contrary to the Constitution, absolutely contrary to the principle of independence of the courts, contrary to the principle of independence of the judiciary, contrary to the International Convention on Human Rights under which Turkey has signed. Tomorrow, according to this law, those who have been discharged from the profession, punished, will go away, condemning Turkey at the European Court of Human Rights, and I'm telling you now, I'm warning you, absolutely. So you can't say, "I made the law myself, this is the Constitution." According to the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights is under internal law, and the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights are carried out in the event of conflict with the Constitution. So I'm thinking he'll come back from there. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0130par0218	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 3 there are three motions, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the 3rd Amendment to the Law on Military Judges Act 685, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 685 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Serindağ Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'm going to have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Yusuf Halaçoğlu Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0131par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0130par0247	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0132par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0130par0249	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0133par0251	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you to express my views on our motion that the Commission and the Minister disagreed. I salute you all. I don't understand how they disagree, but I hope you understand what I'm saying. Now, with this clause, the process of first-rate or first-class military judges will be organised by the establishment of military judges. However, the 1st article depended on the regulation of the National Minister of Defence, which shall be held in accordance with the procedure and basis of the record notes of military judges, based on this procedure of the Military Judiciary Council. So, the Minister of National Defence, within these procedures and fundamentals, military judges will be first class. He will adopt a regulation called "No" or "No," and according to this regulation, this board will be carried out. So, who's this board? This board is chaired by the Minister, and one of the people recommended by Mr. Secretary of Defense is responsible for four people appointed by the Prime Minister. So, in its current definition, according to the regulations issued by the AKP's National Defence Minister, the AKP will be appointed by the Prime Minister, with the appointment of four military judges proposed by the AKP's Minister of National Defence. Well, my dear friends, aside from the fact that the military judiciary has become so political, it's contrary to the Constitution, it's contrary to universal values, it's contrary to the European Union's acquisitor, let's put aside the AKP itself, the judges and military prosecutors who will serve in military discipline have a very important authority over every military unit. In any military unit, any prosecutor can find what he wants, the officer, the commander, sir, the person in charge is missing. If the issue becomes political, people or groups targeted within the Armed Forces can be eliminated by political military justice. The most important aspect of this bill is that a trial that has never been seen in the past of the Turkish Armed Forces and today has been brought into the armed forces by the judicial hand. My dear friends, this is wrong. This path is not a way that cannot be turned; it is a way that can be turned. The authority to rotate is Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Unfortunately, here, we do not see a tendency to leave their consciences at the AKP headquarters, leaving them in a pleasant position in the sky. We can't see it, because it's shown in voting since then that it's been politicized from the Court of Civil Court, from the Supreme Court, from the Supreme Court to the HSYK. I do not trust the Constitutional Court as a reason for this politicalisation. I don't trust the judgment. It's done by a Prime Minister who can say, "I don't trust the judgment." He's the Prime Minister now. We discussed the same thing when we discussed the transfer of the Supreme Court 4 ministers to the millions of dollars in the vaults of the minister's children, the suitcases, the backpacks, the backpacks of the 17-25 corruption operation. We don't trust the Constitutional Court. Didn't it elect a majority of 17 members of the Supreme Court of the Constitution? The essence of a power that can't trust a judge of its own choice is his word: he can't trust himself. Corruption, theft, constant, afraid to go to trial. Now, the reflection of this logic to the Turkish Armed Forces, the politicalisation of the military judiciary, says it will cause great and serious action in the coming days, I submit our motion to the discretion of the High General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0134par0258	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0135par0261	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0134par0262	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Eyiturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Pine, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Onur, Mr. Atici, Mr. Akar, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Bal, Mr. Halaçogoğlu. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Reverends, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make separate commitments to the motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 685 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Other authors of the same motion: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0136par0279	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0134par0280	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0137par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0134par0282	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0138par0283	Now, I wonder who organized this law. Look, you've just read the 2nd article, haven't you? The record, the promotion... it says here how judges, military judges and prosecutors will get their records and promotions. In the past article, it is very clear that the records of military judges have been set up by the Military Supreme Court and the offices of military judges in military courts. For the prosecutors, the Military Court's Attorney's Office and the military justice inspectors before the chief prosecutor's office and the appointment of military attorney to military court. Now, who's giving you the record? A board, a whole board. Nowhere in the world, large boards like this give no record notes, my friends. That's one. Number two: let's get to the other item. Now you're going to say what a diet this is, what a sauerkraut. It says in Article 3 of the third article, the new law is the first-class separation of military judges. How will they be separated? Come on, let's take a look at these records, see how hard you've worked, how well you've made the right decision, how well you've served where you've been, how well your decision has come back in appeal? Won't they ask all of these questions? They'll ask. Well, who's gonna decide that? The board of five will decide. Other boards will decide the record, and the board of five will decide first-degree control. Come on, tell me! Where's a scale like this? Can you tell me where there is such a scales of justice? We were lawyers in those martial law military courts during the coup d'état on September 12th. He had a conscience, a sense of law. Then they gave up civil judges, soldiers, so we started looking for military judges in coup martial law courts because civilian judges were making more cruel decisions, more cruel. The unions, the associations, the parallel organization, they were pressing charges. Then we went through this in the DGMs. The DGMs also had military judges. We've decided to violate Strasbourg, we've removed them, you've brought in special court of authority. You attacked me with 100 people in that corner in the motion on those special authorities. Then you said that these special authorities were the courts of parallels, and you removed them a year later. By God, there were 10 of us, and you were 100, but the damage was greater. Now, you've removed this law and the special authority court, and you've done more damage. Come on, brother! Come, don't play with justice. Justice has to be 24 karats like gold, not 18 karats of justice. Justice is for everyone, it's universal, it's got rules, it's got unity. You have to do this. I'm going to enter the European Union. You're saying, you're changing the Constitution. During the late Ecevit, you put the independent judiciary into the Constitution, the 138th article. And you put in the 90th article in your time of power, 2004-2005. The 90th article you placed was the right one because you accepted the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and there is a fair trial. You have accepted the Economics, Social Contract, and there is a fair trial. These are the laws of the United Nations. In Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the courts are just courts, friends. There is no difference between courts under such political authority and inquisitor courts. The Middle Ages lords and churches were the authorities in their own courts. The current tied, civil politicians will perform their duties, their custody, their place, in accordance with the rule of their own era. Shame, sin! I'd like to tell you about those AGE decisions, and I'd like to tell you more about them. If you play with justice, you'll get it, folks, we're telling you straight.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0139par0289	Thank you. There was another motion. Mr. Eyeborn, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0140par0292	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, under the laws of that time prior to 2000, there are victims of our retired military judges who averaged 15 years in the business and were ranked First Class when they were senior majors and retired on their own terms. We want to end this financial victimization of military judges who have been looking for a solution for 15 years. You know that the total amount of time of service that all of our civilian and military judges need to be in first class and to do so is an important criteria. Again, as you know, civil and military judges are able to achieve professional promotions and gain some financial rights by being first-class. After leaving first class, those who serve for six more years receive the highest financial rights, such as ceiling additional indicators, ceiling high judgement compensation and representation compensation, while retiring. In this respect, civil and military judges who take advantage of the laws that shorten first class, shortening their service time, and allow them to leave first class in a shorter time, have the professional and financial opportunities provided by first class at an earlier and younger age. Dear lawmakers, under the Law of Military Judges, under the amendment to Law 4583 in 2000, have now been removed from waiting for the military judges to be senior majors in the profession for nearly fifteen years to be first class, and have been withdrawn from the day they were majors in the profession for nearly 12 years. In this favour, however, the amendment was not applied to military judges who retired before the adoption of this law and were three years late in first grade. Only the military judges who were on duty at that time were given this right. By this arrangement, military judges who have voluntarily retired before this law are openly victimized while in the rank of commander. Later, a change was made in Law 6318 and the Law of Military Judges, leaving the basis of promotion in first class. The year spent in the ministry is based on this amendment, and military judges who have completed 12 years of military jurisprudence and carry other conditions are entitled to first class. The change in this favour, unfortunately, has not been applied to military judges who were again in office on their own terms before 2000, and only to military judges who were on duty again. Unfortunately, the victims of military judges who were still retired before 2000 continue. Now, we're looking at the 20th amendment to the Law on Military Judges and the temporary 13th article added to the Military Judgement Act, and we see that the military judges on the day the law is in effect are privileged. Mr. Secretary, we would like to propose a amendment to the first amendment to Article 20 of the law and Article 13 of the interim Article 13 to be added to the Law of Military Judges. In the form of acceptance of this proposal, the distortion and victimization of both groups of military judges who have retired in the same way and at the same time could be put to an end to the principle of equality and corruption that has been removed in the form of gangrene and the principle of equality. Dear lawmakers, for example, let's go to an arrangement where lawmakers will increase their pensions and continue to benefit when they retire. Let's say that the lawmakers who are now in charge of this arrangement will benefit from it. Let's add the sentence, is that acceptable? Won't fellow legislators stand up before the 24th century? Dear lawmakers, the financial size of the adoption and legalisation of the proposed amendment in the first joke of the 13th article will not bring a significant burden to the budget. Right now, those victim military judges are watching you, and you have the credit. I hope that our proposal and proposal will be accepted, and I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit04spe0141par0301	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0141par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 685. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, there are four motions in matter four, so I'm going to read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second sentence of the second sentence of Article 16 of Article 16 of Article 357, which has been replaced by Article 4 of Article 3 with Article 685 under the Common Military Judges Act 685, and the second sentence of the same clause, which has been changed into Article 4 of the Law. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Smurf Ünal Salim Good Oğuz Khan İksal Erol Kaya "However, the appointment of military judges who will serve as deputy director of judicial affairs, vice president and head of the military justice department of the Military Justice Board, and other executive staffs of the National Ministry of Justice concerning the judiciary will be appointed to the President's approval and the joint decision of the Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. The maximum garrison service period is not taken into account as to the military judges serving as deputy prosecutors, chief and head of the department." "They can be reassigned under the condition that they be taken into custody and waive the law of the Military Supreme Court." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the 4th Amendment bill be removed from the draft by the Law of Military Judges No. 685. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Halil Aksoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment of the Common Order 685. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0142par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0141par0038	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0143par0039	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0141par0040	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0144par0041	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0141par0042	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0144par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, I've often shared problems with civil servants, especially within the Turkish Armed Forces. We've voiced a lot of issues regarding administrative and autonomy rights, sir, fees and working conditions. However, dear friends, no progress has been made so far. In this article, I would like to share my opinion on the fact that, knowing this opportunity, the civil servants who served in the Turkish Armed Forces in particular are not to be tried in the military court. We've talked about this before, but you've only listened to it, you've quieted down, and so has your Minister, who ignored this injustice, ignored it. If your intention was to expand the freedom of rights, what does the National Movement Party really say on the stand? You would turn around and take it seriously. Dear friends, so you didn't mean to eat grapes. Under Law No. 657, civil servants are still being forced to seek rights in the Military Supreme Administration Court concerning the operations of their administrative and autonomy rights. Subsequently, the 20th Article of Military Supreme Court Law 1602 states: "The purpose of the implementation of this Law is from the person of the military; the officer, military officer, petty officer, military officer, military student, expert officer, private officer, and other private officers; I now draw your attention to you, and civil servants. Dear friends, civil servants, I wish they'd be remembered for their rights. No, it just comes to judgment and punishment. There is a Constitutional Court ruling, which states: "The failure of civil servants to be tried in civil administration courts in administrative cases such as other civil public servants is also contrary to Articles 36, 37, and 145, especially in violation of Articles 10 of the Constitution, which is also contrary to Articles 6/11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. " On May 31st 2012, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that civilians cannot be tried in military courts, which condemned our state to pay 15,000 euros in compensation. You're looking at the Constitutional Court ruling dated September 20, 2012. Mr. Secretary, when you were Minister, two and a half years ago, when there was a Supreme Court ruling, what did you do? Nothing. You haven't moved a muscle. You didn't stand in the way of law or civilization. Now, while you're explaining your involvement in the military court today, please don't hide behind that reason, because I can see that you have no thought of civilization in your mind, nor do you have the courage to exercise the Constitutional Court's decision in your heart. Dear friends, we are looking at the Article 145 of the Constitution, which clearly states that civilians cannot be tried in military courts except during wartime. Again, Article 157 of the Constitutional Court of Military High Administration states that only soldiers and military obligations -- such as military fugitives -- should be brought to trial by civilians. Dear friends, when it comes to Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, the Minister of National Defense, please forgive me, although we've brought this much to the agenda of the bench, do you know what I can think of? We criticize them, not just as ministers, but as ministers, as observers of issues, for watching him from his seat, and for saying, "Let there be no bumps, no kebabs, no management." When I say Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, I'm sorry, that's all I can think of. There's someone who's been watching things from a distance who's never solved any of the issues we've brought up. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0145par0053	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit05spe0146par0054	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta on Article 4 of the Law Bill 685, and the decision to vote on his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The Commission and the Government are here. Now I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment of the Common Order 685. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0147par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0146par0015	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0148par0016	The government disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0146par0017	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0149par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the fourth article of the bill is one of the important ingredients. What we're talking about most is the Council of Military Judges, a clause related to the duties of this Council of Military Judges, or rather, to the appointment of judges. This was a joint decree in the current arrangement of appointing judges in the relevant article of the Military Judges' Law -- I already told you -- giving it to the Founder. Although they split it in half when the bill was being drafted. Now, the Council will appoint judges, the Council will appoint those who are on the stand, but other than that, the President of Military Justice Affairs, the President of the Military Justice Board, and members of the Minister's Board of Investigation, and the draft bill, again. And while you're at it, you won't be looking for the rights of those assigned to you, dear friends. That's the problem. We couldn't figure it out on the Commission. We thought we'd figure it out downstairs. I'm looking at this, and the ruling party is about to have a motion, so they've arranged something like the best of the worst. He's partly... Here's the current state of the law, Mr. Secretary. So you've already been given these powers in the bill, you've already been assigned in the current three-way order, and you've made them reassignable by a triple decree, but there's no clearness there about its assets again. I mean, apart from the mandatory circumstances, there's no need to call back, but there's no way they're going to make these appointments, except if they're mandatory. Now, here, in any case, it could be mandatory. So, now, if you put it there, if you put that mandatory state of mind, we'll start thinking about which situation is not mandatory. So when you were assigned without a search, you could say, "Ya, it was mandatory, so we did it." So in what case are you going to look for the guardians of those judges, those people? How do we know that, how do we know that? So you see someone fit in there, and you say: "Ya, it was mandatory, I'm throwing you out." But it may not have worked out there either. Now, my friends are persistently saying that there is not much demand for the inspection board, administrative services, and these administrative areas, about the operation here, the judges who will be assigned here. There are a lot of judges there, and I'll be assigned here... such as HSYK or other, the current Justice Department's Law on Judges and Prosecutors' Law on 2802, where there are appointments to the Justice Department. Well, of course, there's a condition there, so that's what we're saying. It's not like someone gets up there and gets appointed without a warrant, so the Department of Justice is making an appointment. Of course, there's a lot of demand there, people want it. So there's not a lot of requests for military courts, military judges, so there's no choice. In a sense, if we search for his followers, we will not find a man to appoint, or, rather, appoint, or find a judge. They give such reasons. I don't find that very right, Minister. There's a lot of people who want to be assigned there, and I believe they'll be willing, demanding. We need to remove this mandatory situation here. We're against it. And since that's in the law, that's what you're doing with HSYK in a sense, that's where the arrangements for HSYK are being transferred. I'm thinking there should be no strings attached here, no strings attached. Of course, when I was talking about the whole thing, I said, maybe we could sit down and talk about the structure of this board, maybe it could be arranged. But I've just seen that power has no such intention. That's how this board structure's gonna go. When we watch the minister's speech, when he gives examples from the Netherlands, Switzerland, there are examples from there; Mr. President has a queen in England, there is a kingdom in England... as far as I know there is a kingdom in Holland, Mr. Secretary. So that's what you're saying from there, and there, sir, there's the minister, and here we are doing it. It turns out you don't intend to. This Council, as I understand it, will go through this legal arrangement, as you requested, but then 13, 14, 15, I believe it will come in those materials, and there are our motions. Make sure that this Council, dear friends, is in harmony with our Constitution, and let these appointments of the Council be in line with the Constitution after they have been in line with the Constitution. These appointments will also be discussed, and it is impossible not to discuss because the Board itself is disabled. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0029	Thank you. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second sentence of the second sentence of Article 16 of Article 16 of Article 357, which has been replaced by Article 4 of Article 3 with Article 685 under the Common Military Judges Act 685, and the second sentence of the same clause, which has been changed into Article 4 of the Law. "However, the appointment of military judges who will serve as deputy director of judicial affairs, vice president and head of the military justice department of the Military Justice Board, and other executive staffs of the National Ministry of Justice concerning the judiciary will be appointed to the President's approval and the joint decision of the Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. The maximum garrison service period is not taken into account as to the military judges serving as deputy prosecutors, chief and head of the department." "They can be reassigned under the condition that they be taken into custody and waive the law of the Military Supreme Court." Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0151par0041	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0042	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0152par0043	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0153par0044	Motive...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0045	I'm reading the reason: It is necessary that the appointment of military judges to be appointed as deputy chief of justice, vice-president and head of departments of the Military Justice Department, the Chief of Military Justice Board of Military Justice, the Chief of Military Justice, and the term of the Military Justice Board of Military Justice, and the term of the Office of State Justice concerning the judiciary, should be taken into custody by a trilateral decree, and that it be possible for military judges to be appointed to serve other than the Supreme Court of Justice, the Office, the Office's presidency, and the participation of military judges elected to be appointed as head of the office and chief of chief justice. The motion...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0154par0049	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0050	I'll call the number of decisions I need. ...to your votes, those in favor... Count it, fellas. Now, there is one. One said there isn't. We're doing electronics, I'm giving you two minutes, and I'm starting it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 5 of the same nature, which I'll read and process together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the 5th Amendment of the Law shall be removed from the draft text in accordance with the Law of Military Judges 685 rows. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Serindağ Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0155par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0074	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0156par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0150par0076	Read the grounds for HDP (HDP) and then Mr. Serindağ will speak. The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Mr. Serindağ, the co-signer of the other motion, please.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0157par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. Article 5 of the bill regulates the permit status of military judges. In fact, there are a few crucial points to this bill. The key to this bill is the material related to the establishment of the Military Judiciary Board, and others are complementary. Mr. Secretary, based on the way this Military Judiciary Board is responsible, there's nothing incompatible with judicial independence. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary has four members appointed by the Prime Minister, and the board is grateful for that. It's a waste for me to think of such a board as a board of judges for independence, to be seen like that, to be put here like this, to be put here like this, it can't be. You're already, with all due respect, I've just said, in my previous speech, that when you make these changes, you don't bring them in because of a social need when you bring legal arrangements; whatever the conjunctive requires, you're somehow bringing the current conjunctural perspective of AKP to suit it. For example, let me give you an example: the number of judges must be reduced. You said, "You made an attempt according to him." The conjunctive has changed, the number of judges must be increased. You said, "You have brought change according to it." You found out it didn't work out, the account didn't fit the market, and this time you increased the number of members again. If I remember correctly, now there are 516 members of the Supreme Court, do you or do you not know if there are 516 members of the Supreme Court in the world? Not outside Turkey. Because this is what the AKP needed that day, and you brought it according to it; this is the need now, and you bring it according to it. But, members of lawmakers, I'd like to point out that you're doing the wrong thing. You're evading the institutions, you're turning institutions into a party institution, so you're not being a government institution, you're turning it into a party institution. That's something like that. If you design all institutions this way, if you empty them out, you can't survive democracy. Because we always say that democracy is a regime of institutions and rules. In democracy, institutions must be strong, there must be rules and rules. Otherwise, democracy doesn't develop, democracy doesn't live, you can't live democracy. But here's the thing: unless you have a problem keeping democracy alive, of course you can evacuate the institutions. If you compare democracy to a tram, if you see it as an activity that will land when the time comes, when the right stop comes, of course you can bring that kind of arrangement. But if you want to dominate democracy in state life, such regulations are wrong and you have to give it up. Besides, you're doing another dangerous thing, politicizing some institutions through some institutions. I mean, what I'm trying to say is that you're trying to politicize the Turkish Armed Forces through military judges through military judges. That's a very wrong assessment, that's very wrong. That may have been the case with you today, but it's very wrong. Look, there's an example that we give very often. Do you know why the Balkan War lost the Ottoman state at the time? At that time, because the Turkish Armed Forces had become political, or rather because the Turkish Armed Forces had been infected with politics, we lost the Balkans, we lost all the Balkans. Now, you don't learn from it, you don't learn from history. Therefore, I feel the need to warn you. Now, Mr. Secretary of State will be able to assign the prosecutor to the Ministry of National Defense staffs, any judge he wishes, without his consent. Now, there's a judge on a case, a prosecutor. Mr. Secretary doesn't think it's appropriate for that judge or the prosecutor to be found in that case -- of course, I don't mean your person, generally speaking -- to be found in that case. What's he gonna do? He's going to put another judge or prosecutor in charge of the National Department of Defense. You'll say: "No. We've seen it, we've seen it a lot; we've seen it in the Lighthouse case, we've seen it after the December 17th-25th operations, and there are many examples of it. The Lighthouse is a memorable thing. Look, the Lighthouse should be on your conscience. The chief suspect of the Lighthouse is now on the President's plane as a journalist. Doesn't that ever bleed on your conscience? That's what I'm saying is going to happen here, and I'm paying all of you respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0158par0089	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. The motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0159par0093	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0158par0094	Okay, roll call, let's get started. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Light, Mr. Clean, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Star, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Lightning, Mr. Akar, Mr. Honor, Mr. Horseman, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Turkkan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 6 there are three motions, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 6th Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the 6th Amendment to some Laws. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Gülser Yıldırım Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 685th Amendment. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Muharrem İz İz Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 685th Amendment. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0160par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0158par0128	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0161par0129	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0158par0130	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0162par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in fact, what is intended to be done here is to civilize the Military Judges' Council, but it's interesting that military judges' resignations are accepted by the Secretary of Defense for some reason, but other matters are not directly carried out by the Council of Military Judges, while resignation is not done here again. It's a different shape. I mean, it could have been approved by the Military Judiciary Board, which would've been better -- you're already President of the Army -- nothing would've changed. Beyond that, friends, look, if you somehow get politics into any military council, the consequences will be severe. Look, there's always a structure you admire so much that you envy the Ottomans. There is also a military judge in the Ottoman Empire, who bears the name of the woman of the army. The women of the army, these are also members of the Court. There's the Anatolian and Rumeli part of the army women. They tend to the army business, but only with the committees they collect in their own homes. In any case, the other members of the Court will not be involved. Thus, even there, even in the Ottoman Empire, this has been highly noted. As a matter of fact, they've never been able to include a civilian business in the Ottoman Empire in anything military, and they've been very careful about it. In fact, I'll tell you what, look, even when they're doing something else, the soldiers aren't allowed to do it. As a matter of fact, when Sultan Süleyman returned from the Viennese campaign, his horse's stirrups were broken, and the stirrups were repaired by a Janitor. As soon as Sultan Suleiman of the Law found out about this, he kicked the Janitor out of his military service. Because in any way, he thought that a man in a position to carry out a civilian job, or to engage in a job other than his own military service would do some wrong in the political military. Look, justice is extremely important here. It's extremely dangerous to ruin things by trying to civilize them. From the time of Mehmet the Conqueror, the Ottoman Empire passed a law under the name of Kadime. This law is so much so that it determines which tasks to take after. So, for example, in order to be sheikulism, you definitely have to be the Rumeli lady, the military lady. The woman here, look, I say sheikülslam, and I say the womanizer, who is a lawyer, a top-level lawyer, is sheikulism, so she's not a priest, she's a lawyer. After the highest level of Sadraza, or the equivalent of it, the Sheikhulislam is not a member of the Court, nor is he a member of the Supreme Court. Look, the Ottoman government has been so careful about these things that if it had built a random state system, it wouldn't have survived for six hundred years. As you all know Istanbul, look from Üskudar, towards Topkapi Palace, which tower is the highest tower there, in the palace? It means that there is justice above all things, Kasr Adl, where the Court of Justice gathers, called the Tower of Justice. That's where they gather, where the law is made, but look, it does justice in some way. As a matter of fact, when the government moved a new territory into its territory, there were laws of justice. I mean, these were just decrees that the people who lived there, the safety of the lives and property of any religion, the freedom of faith, were under the protection of the king. When you look at the court records of a state that's connected to such a legal system, you'll see that there is a jury of court inspectors under the name of a court who certainly supervises the court. They don't interfere with cases, but it's a system that controls whether the cases are handled correctly. Look at how many years ago we had a government and what you did. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0163par0136	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm going to read two motions of the same nature, and I'm going to process them separately: the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is the 685th Amendment. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0164par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0163par0145	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0165par0146	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0163par0147	First, the motion of Mr. Baluken... The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0166par0152	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and I bid you good evening. In Article 6, a clause was brought in that regulates the resignations of military judges. Of course, when you say we're going to civilize everything... resignation is normally a one-sided right. Why is it left to the Minister's authority? If he's resigning, I'd think you'd have to bring him a clause to get him to resign. Of course, what we see in all the laws we see in all the laws is that we have to obey the separation of forces, but unfortunately, we see that the separation of forces is being met in a complete hand. When we call it the separation of forces system, we are defined as "Yamama, executive and judicial forces" as being given to different bodies in various ways, which have a brakes and a balance mechanism. I got this from the law book, which is how they described it, and that's how they taught it to the lawyers. Of course, we all know what it's like to make it work when we look at it. In one hand, it's done well, and without any results, only one person manages the entire administration in Turkey alone. When we looked at the legislature, I'm sorry to say, even with such good motions from the opposition, we saw that none of them were accepted from above, no matter what. Unfortunately, the law does not carry out its duty, and what happens when it tries to bring it in. Thus, our legislature is collected by one hand. When we ask for judgment, it's pathetic. With the laws brought in every day... yesterday a law like this came in, worked for them, changed tomorrow because it didn't work today. Judges, prosecutors, all have no guarantees; judges, prosecutors, as requested, have been passed around like hallach cotton, with laws imposed on them. Those whom they had previously acted together and appointed with the congregation were again distributed because they were damaged. We also see that there are no guarantees left in the judiciary. Here, think about the MIT Act, especially after December 17th-25th operations, think about the HSYK Act, the Supreme Court, the Law on Prosecutor's Office, think about the reasonable doubt law, think about the Twitter law, think about this law, think about the law on military judges, think about the law on military judges, and think about the law on internal security law that's coming in, and think about how we're going to shut down corruption on December 17th-25th, how we're going to bring them down, how we're not going to bring them up again? There's no way that could have happened. When we look at the Homeland Security Act, they bring the pleasure calls; pleasure arrests; pleasure weapons use -- the most dangerous -- the most dangerous -- meetings, the fun bans, the march; funly, the bans, the obstructions of press releases, the organization creations -- we've seen this especially in travel events. We've seen nine organizations have been labeled and placed in one of nine, but we've seen indictments being filed for 9 of them. Enjoying detentions, disappearances while in custody will come back on the agenda, arrests will come back on the agenda, driving out of service officers will come on the agenda, dismissing the underprivileged police chiefs and immediately retiring them. He'll bring in the governor he wants and make him chief of police there. Here are the examples of Istanbul, what your appointed governor has done. Punish the police; give them to the police you want, the protection thing you want will come. There will be no search for merit in the appointees. The nepotism is gonna take its toll. The police are the most dangerous. Again, there's a certain attitude towards the gendarmes in the villages, there are those who trust the gendarmes, but when you connect the gendarmes to Internal Affairs, I'm sure there will be a certain pressure in the villages. You know as well as I do that it's not going anywhere, and everyone knows it, but the orders from above are taking it away. Now, dear lawmakers, I would like to address my esteemed voters who voted for the AKP in particular: this government is no longer in control of this country, the economy is booming, and you know it. Sir, you're laughing, but you know it. You know, you say the fiscal lobby, interest lobby, look, in 22 years, between 1982 and 2002, 135 billion interest rates were paid, 598 billion interest interest in your time. (Applause from CHP rows) Everyone saw how much damage the country had done to the Central Bank -- to satisfy its own ego alone -- but what you're going to do now is you're going to see how much damage it has done to it -- because of the economic depression tomorrow, if they make the slightest noise -- the biggest reason of this law -- we're not afraid, because you're already gasting us, you're already throwing us in, you're already destroying the opposition -- they're going to see the real danger, they're going to need to think about it, because of the economic crisis tomorrow. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0167par0163	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 7 there are three motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the 7th Amendment bill be removed from the bill by the Military Judges Act 685, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 7th draft of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Sedef Small Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to the violation of the Constitution. Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Münir Kutluata Nevzat Korkmaz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0168par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0167par0190	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0169par0191	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0167par0192	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0170par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the Homeland Security bill is coming in the next few days. The administration of the gendarme and Coast Guard Command is dedicated to AKP politics. Now, from what we've seen, you're also taking over the military justice through political interference to the functioning of the Turkish Armed Forces. From here I ask the government, what is your pleasure in politicizing the Turkish army with two thousand and five hundred years of tradition? What do you intend to do by ignoring the savings of centuries, with its gliding from the imbysm, by drawing the Turkish Armed Forces into a daily vicious political conflict? The military judiciary, from time to time, requires an objective review, a revision, a restructuring of civil understanding containing objections and appeals, once again imprisoned inside the internal mechanism, with decisions of judgment and court. However, certain provisions in the existing law must be updated, but this bill you've brought to the House will clearly raise new problems, let alone solutions to problems. The problem, dear friends, is that the military judiciary needs to be under the control of civil, modern law. In doing so, the freedom of rights must be aimed at a improvement, the rule of law should be highlighted, but this bill is politicizing the courts as a militant. As you paralyse all institutions, you paralyse military courts and lead them into politics. Of course, dear friends, political power will rule the country, but it will be a place where the authorities who use public power and use public resources will also be accountable, which is the courts. What makes democracy functional is its commitment to the state of law, or many dictatorships are already called the Democratic Republic. We also need to remind the AKP that management in modern democracies is co-management. The last word in the nation is the name of the system where authority and responsibilities are shared, democracy. I organize every area, I manage it alone. The understanding of monotheism is the understanding of monotheism. Pluralism, as the court dweller says, is not multiethnic. The AKP has had trouble digesting this reality from the beginning. It is clear that the AKP has not accepted the rules of the courts and the Armed Forces in its own way from the beginning. For a period of time, he couldn't accept that the state and the nation are the permanent by the state's will, that governments are temporarily established, that they have a life. Dear friends, I'm speaking to fellow AKP MPs in particular. Listen to the words of the Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc. What's he saying? ▪ 50 percent voted for us, but the other half hated us. Turkey is no longer manageable, he says. He's been in charge of this concept of semantics since the beginning of 13 years. Like those who have gone before them, if he does not devour them, if he does not repeat them later, the truth they say is delayed confessions. Let's hear it, let's hear it. I organise every area with my political perspective, and while I do so, it is futile for me to consult, to consult, to reason with anyone. The wrongs, the efforts to make everyone one form, the effort to destroy the feeling of unity, the sadness, the dissolution, and the polarization. This law on military courts, if it had been brought before us with objective intent, maybe we wouldn't have had to do these criticisms, but, dear friends, we're looking at your previous practices, and we're looking at those subconscious feelings behind this law, and we see that you don't mean well. In this regard, I express once again that we say no to the politicalization of military courts, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0171par0201	Thank you. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There are two proposals of the same nature, and I have them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment of the current 685 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0172par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0171par0211	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0173par0212	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0171par0213	First, I read the grounds for HDP's motion: The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Now, on the other motion, Mr. Sedef Küçük of Istanbul.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0174par0218	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 7th Amendment of Bill 685. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, today was the turnover ceremony at the Supreme Court. The former Supreme Court president and the newly elected Supreme Court chief must remove the robe of those with fear and expectations. They stressed that a climate of fear prevails over the judiciary. This emphasis has a great sense of right, but it points to an embarrassing situation in our country in which the judiciary has fallen. The shame is not ours. This shame belongs to those who try to make judgment advocacy, those who make judgment political, those who try to make judgment a backyard of a certain political opinion. It is the shame of those who approach the judgment that needs to be neutral. Look, Mr. Hashim Kılıç, who has been discharged from the office of Chairman of the Constitutional Court, must tell you how difficult his judgment is at a press conference. Go to the remotest corner, where all citizens know which political views the judges and prosecutors are close to. We can't go on with such judgment, he says. That's not an unfair assessment. Because the judiciary has become political, has been forced to become political, and there is no sustainable side to this situation. In the past decade, cases such as Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, pressure on prosecutors and judges to cover up corruption has now completely undermined trust in justice. If trust in justice is completely shaken, it's a dream to expect no from that system. Dear lawmakers, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I must also point out that, yes, there are more kings in the court than kings. That's right, some of the judgment has become political. True, part of the judiciary applauded this politicalisation with great enthusiasm. But most of our judges still advocate law and justice, despite all these negativeities, with their honorable stances and decisions. For example, a judge should be able to express his dissatisfaction, objections, and demands in the democratic law community, by gathering, by showing and walking, by speaking to the public in such a manner, by hiding in fear and oppression, and not trying to act against the law. It's very important to say that. Because in this country, people can go to jail for years for making noise, for opposition, for performing without permission. And that's why it's admirable that in a democratic legal state, a judge would sign such a decision on a matter that can't be brought before a judge as a case. Indeed, in any country that is not claiming to be an imaginary advanced democracy, but ruled by true democracy, people cannot be brought before a judge because they have used their constitutional right to write in the European Convention on Human Rights. There are no prosecutors in these countries who file indictments. Such democracies don't recognise judicial decisions, they don't meet prime ministers and presidents who knock the judiciary out every chance they get, because in countries where there's real democracy, their judgment and decisions are respected. A constitutional court head who has been discharged from his post in such countries is not a means of revenge; the judiciary is not a means of attaining someone's goal. They bring evil to the land. He does not feel the need to say it. I hope and hope that one day in our country it will be possible to establish such a judgment and democracy, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0175par0223	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 8 there are three motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the 8th Amendment of the Law shall be removed from the draft text in accordance with the Law of Military Judges 685 rows. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th Amendment of the Common Order 685. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0176par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0175par0252	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0177par0253	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0175par0254	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0178par0256	Mr. President, we're discussing another important matter. This clause gives Mr. Secretary of State the authority to allow the investigations of the Council of Military Judges established, so if there is to be an investigation into the disciplinary action committed by military judges, military prosecutors and other crimes, it will come out of the mouth of the Minister of Defense. Yes, or no. It depends on the statement of the Minister of Defense. What could be more severe than that, more severe, and more violent in the principle of the state of law? There can be no more violent judgment than this, because the political will for the investigations of judges and prosecutors serving in the judicial authorities of the Turkish Armed Forces will decide. Then why are you setting up a board of military judges? We have hanged the minister, we have cut him off. Tell him to finish. That's what it's gonna be, since the people the minister's offering will be board members, we'll be cutting back on the Ministry's vine again. My dear friends, this raises a doubt, a doubt in our minds. The intimidation of the Turkish Armed Forces raises suspicion that the Turkish Armed Forces will be silenced by this use of power and that a legal weapon will be taken into custody concerning several operations within them. Such a situation would disrupt morale and motivation within the Turkish Armed Forces. Such a situation will subject Turkish Armed Forces to the political idea represented by political will, not political will. That's the politicisation of the Armed Forces. It means that the Armed Forces are being used as a means of politicizing judicial elements. Come back from this. These Armed Forces are out of everyone's depth. These Armed Forces are not the Armed Forces of a party, a political thinker, a group of people; they have been a proud, honorable, dignified organization of the Turkish nation since the moment they entered the history scene. The only man you're building this institution, you can't make it fit into his political regime. It's against the nature of things. This is a violation of the nature of the object, and there will be other consequences. That's all I can say. Mr. Bulent Arinc gave the signal of these results. Your hatred and hatred for the other people, the warrant for investigation to be dealt with with by this clause, will be reflected in exactly the same way to the Turkish Armed Forces, where you will create a mass that you will silence, suppress, shrink. That won't happen within the Armed Forces. This means that there will be a trial in the armed forces of the Turkish nation, which has taken over the country's defences both inside and outside, and has sent their sons from every family, condemning them, and the corruption will be brought in, a political pus will be put in. In the near future, the plague will be severe. You will be responsible for this plague in this world and in the next. We respectfully present our motion to the High General Assembly. We hope that the consciences will survive the influence of the AKP headquarters. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0179par0261	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There are two proposals of the same nature, and I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th Amendment of the Common Order 685. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Melda Onur (Istanbul) and her friends Signed by the other motion in the same manner: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0180par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0179par0271	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0181par0272	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0179par0273	Let us first read the reason for HDP's motion. The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Mr. Onur, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0182par0278	Thank you. I have made a commitment to the bill of the military justice we're discussing. And when I found the Minister here, I didn't want to get past the point without saying, Mr. Secretary, that there are a lot of reforms in our army, privates, privates. First of all, as the top executive of all these army members, we consider all of this to be your children. I don't know if you see it that way. I want to know one thing: as long as they're in the army, they're your children. So, after he left the army, he was also your son? I think it should be. Because in the end, when these people are doing their patriotic duty, sometimes they lose their limbs, sometimes they're martyrs, sometimes they're veterans. So I don't think the Ministry of National Defense should take their hands off our fellow veterans during this time. One of them is Nazim Özen. Nazim Özen is a southeast veteran. In 1998, when the North Iraq operation returned, it stepped on a mine and lost its left foot and is currently using the lower left knee prosthesis. The problem with Nazim Özen (Nazim Özen) is that, unfortunately, the SGK is treating Nazim Özen (NARK) badly. I mean, let me tell you, your cabinet members are going to be gossiped about, but unfortunately the minister in charge of the SGK doesn't care about your son the same way because he has problems with his prosthetics. I just called Nazim Özen. I said: "I have received a speech, please send me your message, and I will deliver it. We will deliver the message of Nazim Özen and his message about himself and the veterans while we have found you here. Nazim Özen says that 92 percent of the total veterans in our country are private and private. The government, the state and our people should know that the rights of the veterans of the United States and the European Union would be appreciated by Google, and they would like to see it. How his soldiers, who were veterans of his country, were given rights and how they lived. Everywhere they are, they get respect, love, they don't know what economic distress is, and we have it. There is also the success of the foundations and associations who claim to represent us. Here comes the prothesis and says: "Please don't give us a hard time about paying off the prosthetics and other healing tools used by Southern veterans." The cost of prosthetics is 68 thousand euros, but the SGK finds it expensive and pays 22,000, which is one third of the leg. He's been in court for six months. Let's see what he does. Please, let the State Department of Defense take care of our veterans in such matters. He says the law gives us the best treatment tools and prosthetics. Many of my fellow veterans make me pay for payment by the SGK, although they say it's from abroad, so the prosthetics are paid by the court. That's not gonna happen. Other than that, what do the veterans demand? It is called a second job in public for the southeastern veterans. There is no absence in four walls, you know, the conditions of life in our country are brutal. The pensions of Southeast veterans on the hunger line should at least be raised to the level of poverty. At least 40 percent discount on the gas consumption of Southeast veterans. We're having a hard time paying, so we'd like to warm up. We find it difficult to afford scholarships for the children of Southeast veterans, education and stationery. And he says: "Mr. Deputy, officer, Petty Officer veterans have many different rights with their social rights. They get paid for whatever their current counterparts are. Then the veterans' salary is set up for about 3,000, 5,000. I'd like to make you one last addition, since it's opened up to veterans. I'm a veteran's daughter, my father's a Cypriot veteran. We always know in his friendly conversations that there's an inequality between veteran salaries. In fact, the money paid for veterans is not a salary, it's a taltif, and you know it, but unfortunately, there's injustice there. We've discussed this with Mr. Finance Minister. There's nothing we can do now. I salute all veterans here, and I especially ask that the Ministry of National Defense not hand over the fate of veterans to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0183par0289	Thank you, Mr. Onur. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 9. I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Code 9 be removed from the draft by the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Halil Aksoy Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mustafa Moroğlu Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0184par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0183par0318	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0185par0319	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0183par0320	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0186par0322	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I give you both my regards and good night. Dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing suggests that the National Minister of Defence is the President and that all members are appointed by the Prime Minister's Council of Military Judges. This board will perform all the autonomy and administrative procedures of military judges, such as appointment, evaluation, relocation. It says here that the board is independent, just like everyone else's mind. Dear friends, are the government and the Secretary of Defense independent, and you expect the National Minister of Defence to act independently of the board, where all of his members are appointed by the Prime Minister? While the state of the Justice Department and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors have not yet been digested by modern law, do you not create a new anomaly with this Military Judiciary Council? Even here, we can say that the AKP's power has created new problems to cause a system malfunction, not a problem solver. Wasn't the AKP saying that in the years when it seemed pro-democracy, the HSYK was working under political influence and that the minister had to leave the board? What happened? Yesterday is yesterday, today is today. Are you saying it's today? Or after you've taken control? Or, do you mean, if I interfere, it's the right thing to do? How do you swallow this dilemma, dear AKP MPs? I wonder where the paralegals in you who have devoted their lives to the law really are. When did they take off their robes and say goodbye to their conscience? With this structure, the Military Judiciary Board is completely under the control of the government. However, the Constitutional Court's decision of 2014 opposed the National Defence Minister's disciplinary sentences to military judges and found it contrary to judicial independence. Dear lawmakers, you don't have to look at the air, the pan to see how we solve this problem, the National Movement Party is the solution. The resolution of the issues expressed about the military judiciary is in the National Party's proposal for the Constitutional Compromise Commission. ▪ Everything the National Party says is wrong. If you get rid of the complex, you will read and learn. Look what he said in the Commission about the military justice. We have suggestions in all areas of the judiciary, but since we're discussing military judgment, I'm merely offering suggestions on the military judiciary. The military judiciary will only look at military crimes involving military service and duties, while an office of the State will look at military administrative affairs, and at least one of the Supreme Court's offices will look at military judicial authorities. In summation, this statement shows that by limiting the issue of military justice, the field of duty to military crime only, the appeals are solved by leaving civil judicial and administrative superior institutions, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, the proposal of the Nationalist Action Party. Come and listen, don't complicate things, this proposal by the National Party of Action will end all discussions in the field of military justice. Dear friends, you will take every step towards the establishment of justice, without any improvement in the judiciary. Otherwise, the judgment you're trying to suppress will be responsible for your actions by the change of political power tomorrow. Well, we're sorry, but then it'll burn with the dry. I hope that all lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, especially the lawyers in your midst, will take their minds and listen to their consciences, saying that a new reckoning has already been avoided over the judiciary, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0187par0329	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There are two proposals of the same nature, so I'll have them read in order and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Mustafa Moroglu (Izmir) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0188par0338	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0187par0339	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0189par0340	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0187par0341	I'm reading the grounds for the HDP motion: The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. Mr. Moroglu of İzmir, please come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0190par0346	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are discussing Bill 685, which gives our Minister of State great powers and responsibilities. Our minister's nature is not fit to use those powers and responsibilities. We're working together on the commissions. I think after these powers and responsibilities, I've come to the impression that the Minister may have a problem with whether or not to use those powers. After that, I felt the need to remind both our Parliament and our listeners and especially our Minister of the 9th Amendment. Because this 9th article regulates punishments for non-disciplined, non-excuseable, non-empty work for military judges while serving, and there is only a penalty for disciplinary action, such as non-excussive duty, or excessive debt. When I read this clause, I considered it my duty to ask once again how we would undo the inequality of our soldiers, who had been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces for lack of discipline, for disobeying the order, or because of excessive debt. Because, after the 2011 elections, during our 24th term, all laws involving the Turkish Armed Forces have repeatedly expressed this issue in both the commission and budget talks and the Parliament. I've just been able to meet with our Minister face-to-face. Our minister has also made statements that the problem should always be resolved with good intentions -- even here. Once again, with the Minister of Finance... because the Treasury won't allow it when it comes to such matters. Since we don't have time here, we don't have to explain what's allowed in the long budget, because both the Minister and all my fellow citizens and congressmen know it. So the disparity of these friends, who are not above 1,500, does not sink the finances of the Republic of Turkey, but, as shown in Article 9 of this law alone, the inequality of military judges must be removed. Let's make it legal as soon as possible, with a two-line writing -- I think it was Law 61 -- that allowed soldiers to return to duty by order of the other, to be retired, for political reasons and for reasons of lack of discipline, and for reasons of debt to the Turkish Armed Forces. Mr. Secretary, if not at the end of this semester, the voters can retire both you and me. So I want to make this very clear. Let's make sure we solve this problem. Because it's a really big scar. I consider it a duty to address another problem on behalf of all my friends who have served on behalf of our party at the National Defence Commission. One of the most important reasons for the inequality of the Turkish Armed Forces is that when they served in the Turkish Armed Forces, they were veterans, all those who lost their lives, their rights to freedom, their pensions, their rights, their rights, that they were given these rights, that they were thought to commit suicide or suicide, that they were denied this right, because I think over and over and over again, we find out why we can't prevent them from being able to commit suicide when our brothers came to the army, but we still can't prevent them from committing suicide, because they've committed suicide in a way, or because they've been treated as a sign of a question. So instead of looking for answers to these questions, I think it's a great duty for both the Secretary of State and our Parliament to make arrangements to address these inequalities before the end of this term, to serve as commanders for the Turkish Armed Forces. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0352	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 10 that I have to read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the "90%" in the second joke of the clause be changed to "80%." Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz of Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the 10th Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the Law. İdris Baluken Gülser Yıldırım Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Halil Aksoy Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution; I'm going to have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment of the current 685 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Yusuf Halaçoğlu Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0192par0378	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0379	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0193par0380	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0381	Read the reason, please. Reason: It is up to the Council of Military Judges to expunge the sentences of judges who have been sentenced to disciplinary action under certain conditions. Your bill is 13. The appointment of President and members of the Council of Military Judges is entirely up to the Minister of National Defence and the Prime Minister. This is also aimed at politicising military judiciary, such as political and administrative judiciary, to subject it to the control of the executive body of the Military Judiciary. The Court guarantee is 138,139 and 145 of the Constitution, which regulates the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. It violates the rule of law with its articles. The Constitutional Court is contrary to the long-standing laws of the Constitutional Court that judges cannot be allowed to assume the authority of the executive body, the decisions of the ECHR. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 10 of the 10th Amendment to the Law of Military Judges 685, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text of the Law. Gülser Yıldırım (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission's motions?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0194par0393	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0394	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0195par0395	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0396	Read the reason, please. The bill envisions the establishment of the Council of Military Judges of the four members elected from the National Defence Minister and first-class military judges, and the establishment of the National Defence Minister of the executive body, and the establishment of a Judiciary Council under the approval of the Minister of the Minister of the other board, and the establishment of a judicial council under the direction of the administration. It is not possible for the board to carry out the task in accordance with the principles of the courts' independence and judicial guarantees. Besides, it's not possible to talk about civilization without being reduced to the jurisdiction of the military courts and converted into an expert court of justice. Therefore, this bill violates the Constitution, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence, the principle of natural justice. As a matter of fact, there is no response in the universal norms of a higher council to be created by this method. Moreover, the trial of the perpetrators of such massacres will no longer be subject to bureaucratic rules, and the judiciary will no longer be able to carry out its duty on its own. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment of the current 685 Rows. We offer and propose that the "90%" in the second joke of the clause be changed to "80%." Kemal Millenderelı (Edirne) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0196par0405	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0406	Government?
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0197par0407	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0191par0408	Mr. Millerdere, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0198par0410	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Military Judgement Act 685, and to the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, this late in the night, light, like this, we're going to take a shortcut, but I'm going to be a bit of a buzzkill for the ruling party MPs, which is what I have to do as part of our parliamentary responsibility. Dear friends, with this clause, the 10th article and the disciplinary sentences of military judges are being brought up, but there is one thing that the precious orator who spoke before me highlighted, in the essence of this bill, is that the Council of Military Judges is essentially bound to political will. Our fellow lawyers have made that very clear. We make these laws, but how much we enforce them, it's very important. Now, we have big problems in the field of law, in the field of democracy, especially in economics these days, dear friends. No matter how new laws we make, the AKP government no longer manages Turkey, friends. Are you aware of the rise of dollars and foreign currency in the last ten days, fellow ruling party MPs? The President is talking as he gets on the plane, the dollar goes up, he talks on the plane, the dollar goes up. The private sector's debt is due in a month...
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0199par0414	It's rising all over the world, all over the world.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0198par0415	You say so, but do you know how much the private sector owes, dear friends, has increased in a month? Many of you know that friends who are businessmen know very well. The private sector's debt has increased by $36 billion in the last month, friends. What does that mean? That's $15 billion. Look, we were just happy that the car was falling apart. Why? Oil prices are going down, current deficits are going down, yes, good. Our current deficit was down $4,5 billion when oil prices dropped by $10. Well, that was a happy thing for all of us. Now what? We've lost $15 billion in the last month. Why did we lose it? I thought we were doing well, our economy was going well, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, the president of the Central Bank -- you're reading -- he's packing up his residence, he's leaving. Then what financial environments in the world trust the financial world of this country? Mr. President says, "Let the interest fall." But Mr. Secretary at the head of the economy is taking care of the President of the Central Bank, and he says he's following the right policies. Dear friends, this is the way, not the way. Mr. President, as we've always criticised, he'll be the president of the Central Bank, the president of the Court, the Supreme Court, the president of the Constitutional Court. No, guys, no, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, he's almost president of the Military Supreme Court and the Military Court of Judges. What was he saying, Mr. President? The most important thing to be concerned about in the state of law is the principle of separation of forces. Dear friends, we all know that capital escapes from countries where there is no quality democracy and no quality legal system, and that danger is at our door. It's your responsibility to share it here and to appeal to the idea of you and the ruling party MPs, of all of us, of lawmakers in all of Congress, who have defied the law, of democracy, of one manly rule, dear friends. With these thoughts, I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit06spe0200par0422	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-11sit07spe0200par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 685. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, confirming the Convention on the Protection and Development of the Variety of Cultural Statement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision was made, on Thursday (February 12th 2015) to discuss whether the primary Gensoru Act (11/44) will be on the agenda and to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of law and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, on Thursday (February 12th 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
