tbmm-2015-03-10sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0001par0001	I'm opening the Second Session of the 73°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, from the point of view of all groups, it would be good if we eased the noise if we could listen to three of our friends speak out of the agenda in silence, in a calm, healthy manner, to watch them -- I say to this side and to that side, there are those who are taking turns. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, today we're talking about the problems of Kopeeli, which I've talked about many times before -- and I'm going to continue to talk again because the problems haven't been solved. But first, last week, we lost Turan Yilmaz, the district leader of Derbent neighborhood Turan. We have lost our brother Turan, nicknamed Toto Turan. My condolences to his family, and I ask for patience. Because in the area where we were powered down for fifty-four hours, he died while he was standing in front of himself and fixing the lines so that we wouldn't have to go through this again. Again, another issue: 3-4 buildings have been destroyed so far in the District of Alikahya, where the armed forces live by the AKP municipality, by the Yukmite Metropolitan Municipality in Izmit, are about to collapse. Because it's called a woodland area, and there's no bushes left, so it needs to be built. I'm saying that the victims of these citizens need to be removed as soon as possible. Why do I say that? Because we've done its way, we've given it electricity, it's got asphalt, it's got everything, it's got all the equipment in the neighborhood; it's not open to land, it's 20 years, it's 30 years, it's 40 years old, it has to be built, it's got to be built, and it's got to be done well, it's got to be done, it's got to be done, it's got to be done, it's got to be done, it's got to be done, it's got to be done. As you all know, one of the most productive cities in Turkey is a city that contributes tremendously to Turkey's budget, but it's a city that's been led so badly, it doesn't fix problems. Another example of this is the need for a hospital. In fact, during the twelve-year period of AKP power, there were three hospitals in the Gulf, Kandira, Dilovas, which would not exceed 50 beds, and with additional Farabiye additional hospitals, nearly 500 beds were added in about 12 years. But the strange thing is, in 12 years, he grew about 500,000 because we say that the Big One grew as big as a Bayburt every year. He doesn't just need a bed. As you all know, cancer rates have increased by 200 percent, and cancer cases have grown like avalanches. For him, there is an urgent need for an oncology hospital equipped with Avengers because of the cancer of one of the four people who lost their lives. Not only that, we need an intensive care unit in Kopeeli. There are only 200 intensive care units in the Alexandria area, where some 1,700,000 people live. Patients are sent to Yalova, Bolu, Düzce, and even hospitals in Istanbul for intensive care; intensive care is needed. There are no microsurgery and burn units in what we call the capital of industry, which is the industry's heart beating. It's very interesting, friends, there's no microcosurgery or burn unit. I'm saying there's also an urgent need for these units in the case of business accidents. Of course, what did the AKP governments do when we said that they couldn't make this investment? I will build a city hospital on September 12, 2013." he said, and a section of us called the "Cephanical" was decided to build a city hospital. First it was decided to build 350 acres of land, then it went up to 500 acres at your former Prime Minister's request, but then this hospital was never built here, and it's not being built. Before Christmas, when I went to the hospital to see if it was in place, when I saw that there was garbage, I called whatever company took it, whatever company did the protocol. I said, why don't you do this hospital? We haven't reached an agreement on protocol yet, so we haven't agreed on protocols. But what an unfortunate town we are, we had two Industrial Ministers -- the first one the same, and the second one -- they had nothing to do with the city's problems remotely. They're dating, just like they're lying, and these ministers are lying. That's exactly what I'm saying, let them take it as a tease, let them explain it here. They're coming, we're finishing the procedures, we're going to lay down the foundation of the hospital. Again, there is no hospital. Again, this Minister went, and he said, "This is the armory area, we're going to do a mine search here. He must have confused it with the Syrian border, my Minister, because he's spending his vacations in his hometown, and he mistook it for a statement like that, saying they didn't build the hospital because of the mine. I'm saying they're making fun of the citizen's mind. This is the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, you know, he felt it first, then waved his hand at the imaginary tram, and now he hit the mine, just like the Admiral Batty. Our Minister says he can only throw it in the van, so I pay all my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz, who asked for a comment on the problems and proposals of farmers, feeders and dairy producers. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0004par0032	Mr. President, our dear congresswoman friends, I am in the conscience of repeatedly expressing the importance of agriculture to our country and the world, the problems and solutions of our farmers, our meat and milk producers in our country, and following them very closely. I don't know if my conscience is clear and your consciences are clear. Because, again and again, in our country, agriculture, farmers, meat and milk producers are miserable. The farmland continues to go off-grid day after day. The meras are removed from the mera, and the fellow sergeant and ally are in pursuit. It's almost as if he regrets producing farmers. The manufacturer, who can't get technical support from the ministry, is quite surprised at what he's going to do. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the lack of staff, and the lack of co-ordination and unauthorizedness of what's happening, unfortunately, are at a standstill. For 13 years, research, production and broadcast coordination has still not been achieved. New technologies produced at research institutes and universities have not been met with our people. Farm engineers, veterinary engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, technicians and technicians who were waiting for the appointment have been put to sleep for years, almost deceived. Again, Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister: Your lack of staff is disrupting your services. This wrong choice and the negativity of your policies will attract both our farmer and producer and ultimately our country in the coming years. Our farmer, our manufacturer, is engaged in so-called support. According to the Law on Agriculture -- which you don't even apply -- one percent of our national income should be given as support for agriculture, while this rate has not exceeded 0.5 per cent in years or 5 per thousand. When will you give the farmer the support he deserves? Support for the dying agricultural sector, I ask you, are you going to give it to him? Farmer, feeder, milk producer, bank interest, bank loans, credit payments, execution, mortgages and prison clamps are practically moaning. The entry costs have bent the farmer's backs, valued lawmakers. EV and VAT, which are in agricultural inputs, should be removed immediately from the electricity used in medicine, medicine, fertilizer, seedling, seedling, seedling, seedling, seedling, feed, agricultural irrigation. You promised these things in time, but you forgot them all. Hopefully, EV and VAT will be removed from all these agricultural entries in the power of the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, especially when it comes to electricity debts, our farmer is devastated, and these debts are urgently required to be restructured. You're trying to make me forget about the green diesel you promised the farmer. You've seen a lot of it in the marine industry, the cheap diesel you're giving to the shipboys, the tractor, the irrigation engine, the patpata, the harvester, our farmer, our manufacturer. Maybe Turkey is the only country where the diesel put in the four-way luxury jeep and the masoth on the tractor are sold at the same price. At least half of the support the European Union farmers receive will be a serious contribution when you give it to our farmer. Our farmer's hard work is the light of the eye, of course he has the right to be compensated for his hard work, precious MPs. After oil and natural gas, we pay for the most foreign currency, the oil we import, the raw material and the bait raw material. There are all kinds of possibilities for closing the raw oil deficit and the bait gap -- we have people, we have sun, we have soil, we have water -- infrastructure. Billions of foreign currency will remain in our country, with only the right choices and policies and a guaranteed contracting production system. In this way, the manufacturer of other countries, rather than farmers, will be supported by our country's producers, farmers, feeders. In our country, we say that agriculture is sick, you don't believe it, we say that it's bleeding, we say that it's giving you SOS, you don't believe it. When agriculture is dead, when agriculture is finished, will you believe in all food imports, meat, milk imports, oil and bait imports, sacrifice and hay imports, and when it is condemned? Let's take care of the agricultural industry, our producer, our farmer, our feeder, our milk maker, that every human needs from birth to death. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi (Ağrı) who wants to talk about investments in Ağrı province. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0006par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to investments in Ağrı Province. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I would like to extend my condolences to four of our weekend pilots, who have been martyrs, who have come from here to ask for the mercy of the Lord God, and to their grieving families. Now, before me, of course, a friend came out here, gave a speech, told me about the problems with the farmers. You know, we've seen MHP powers before, what they've given the farmers, and I'm really going to leave that to your conscience, our great nation will probably make that assessment.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0007par0051	It's what you give, it's what you give. The previous ones were 15 years ago. Tell me what you gave him.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0006par0052	Now, what did our government bring in the province of Pain, as in all Turkey? We told you here about three weeks ago what we did to our Ağrı county center. Now let's look at our counties. What have we brought to our Ağrı, our beautiful Ağrı, our boroughs?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0008par0053	People are out of work, hungry Pain.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0006par0054	We're continuing to allocate 33 acres of land to our Justice Department to build a new courthouse for our pain center. About 90 percent of this has ended, and hopefully we intend to buy it for the next 2016 investment programme. We're thinking of turning the location of our current Pain Courthouse into, hopefully, a museum and turning the rest of it into a social donut center. In 2014, we received 96 homes to our judges and prosecutors at Ağrı district. This makes about 13 trillion, 158 billion, 160 million TL.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0009par0056	13 trillion in six homes? A two-million-dollar residence... where is this place? Istanbul? 12 trillion for six homes... no money, no money!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0006par0057	Another beautiful district of Diyadin, our Ağrı, continues the tender process of 16 classes of imam-gap high school and 100 student hostels. We began construction of 200 student dorms in the neighborhood of Jesus, costing 2 trillion 338 billion dollars. Another 12-school elementary school was completed this year in the Conqueror Neighborhood. It costs $1 trillion 156 billion. We've allocated 58 acres of land to our district of Diyadin, hopefully in 2016, and we're thinking of bringing here a two-year college or a four-year college at Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University. Again, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been assigned an eight-acre plot of land to build the SHM. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has been earmarked for 4,000 square metres of land for the construction of a religious settlement. We're out of 44 acres of land for the Ministry of National Education to build a school, eight acres of land for the Justice Department to build a new courthouse, 5,000 square meters for the Ministry of Social Security to build the SGK building... and we're out of closed-door gyms with 500 spectators. In just two years, the village roads were hit by a hot 40km asphalt. Our 50-beded Diadin State Hospital is over, they've moved out, so good luck. We're still working on bringing a college into our detention district in the same way, and hopefully that'll be the end of this year. We've laid the foundation of our 24-school Imam-student high school last year, it's over this year, we're moving. Our 200 student-capacity boarding house, our 24-room health school, our synthetic field cost about $969 billion, ending in the sixth or seventh month of 2015. We're out of State Hospital, so we moved, so good luck. A closed gym for 1,000 people was built at Anadolu High School, costing about $1 trillion 782 billion in old money. We've just hot asphalted 37 kilometers into our Tutak district. We're out of SEC building, so hopefully we'll open in the coming months. In Stonedchay, here, Nur Ali Turan has made the University of Professionals a business man, and I thank them. 16 courses, 100 students, our imam-gap high school and 16-year-old middle school. Our Smurf County Elezkirt. Again, again, I give thanks to Celal Oruk Bey from here. It's the first and only school in Turkey that's opened in the field of livestock. Our four-year faculty, Ağrı İbrahim Chechn University. Again, in the same way, we're building our state hospital in Elezkirt County, which ends in 2015. Again, our 24-room industrial high school is in the tender phase. Our 24-schooled, 300-capacity imam-gap high school is in the tender stage. Again, in the same way, our SGK building is finished, so be it good, and the village roads have been hot asphalted for 53 kilometers. So in three and a half years, the pain... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the central and boroughs of il, about 300 miles of hot asphalt. My respects to the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0010par0069	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0011par0070	Mr. President, the speaker turned my speech around and asked me, "What was done during the reign of the Third Republic?" And I, as a bureaucrat of the Department of Agriculture at that time, would like to answer as a general manager, sir, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0010par0071	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker said, "What did the Ministry of Agriculture do during the time of the authorities, and what did they give the farmer?" Just to put it this way, even sharing these numbers is a matter of real example. In 2002, when you accepted Milat, our farmer had to sell five pounds of wheat to buy one litre of diesel, one of the most important entries in agriculture. He'll be able to sell six kilos of wheat today so he can buy a liter of diesel. Again, in 2002, when our farmer, our beet producer, delivered 10 kilos of beets, he could buy 1 litre of diesel. He's supposed to deliver 30 kilos, 35 kilos of beets today so he can get a liter of diesel. Again, when our feeder, our milk manufacturer, sold 1 litre of raw milk, he could buy 5 pounds of cut bait. At the coming point today, when you sell 1 litre of raw milk, it doesn't make 750 to 800 grams -- not one pound -- it can take a cut-up feed. You know, that's what you call where from where to where? From here, I called to the Minister of Agriculture, who was sitting in the commission, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, from here, from Poletlı, from Emirdağ, from the Plain of Oyay, from there to the Toros, from there to the Mediterranean, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from here, from there, from the Minister of Agriculture, to the Minister of Agriculture, from there, to the farmer, from the farmer, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from there, from here, from there, from there, from there, from there, from here, from there, from here, from there, from here, from here, from there, from there, from here, from here, from here, from here, from the I said, "Let us observe at some point whether they live in the golden age, or whether they are really dying." I said, "He didn't dare." I invite you again with your intervention: if you have the courage, let's go out in front of our farmer, our feeder, our manufacturer, and see who's telling the truth. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0012par0082	Thank you. Now, according to the 60th article, I will fulfill the brief request of 10 of our friends. After that, Mr. Proposer, I'll give you my word according to Article 58. So I'll give you a heads-up so you don't get hurt. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that the economic picture is so heavy, the tradesman, the laborer, the farmer, the retired, the various social layers are devastating. People can't pay their debts, their social security benefits. One of them is our Turhal people. Those with voluntary insurance calling from Çakat Province of Turhal are asking for the removal of interest and restructuring of debts in the law brought to Parliament's agenda by the government. Without restructuring, it is expected that they will not be able to pay their debts, that they will not be able to pay their debts, that the importance of the matter will be immediately understood and that the bag will be arranged in this direction in the law. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0014par0090	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0015par0092	Mr. President, today the flights of Tripoli and Erzurum in Bursa have begun again by air. Today, aircraft from Erzurum and Tripoli have landed at the Yenişehir Airport in Bursa, and have launched an air route back to the north and east of our city. We are grateful to the Anadolu Jet General Director and his officials who have taken care of this matter, but we expect that, after these flights, again, the start of Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Van, Mush, Ağrı, Antalya and Cyprus flights. We thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bkent Arinc Bey, our Labour Minister Faruk Çelik Bey, our fellow deputies, and our Governor, our Mayors of the Metropolitan. He says, "Let there be no flights, and I salute all the people of Bursah."
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0014par0094	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Mersin has built a bus station in Mersin. About a year after the local elections passed, the bus station was only able to be serviced but not run the bus station. Why? Because Turkey's most expensive rents are wanted. Transport companies resist these exorbitant rents; they transport passengers to Tarsus and put them on buses from there, but Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, which created the autogar monopoly, is trying to digest companies by creating a variety of challenges. The passengers were seriously victims, and when the offices didn't work, hundreds of people were out of work, and the demand for exorbitant prices in the bus station is inevitable, so the public will be victims twice. The mayor of the city is also trying to manage perceptions that we did business for the good of the people. The municipalities must rule the city in peace and quiet, not perception. Mersin is not well managed. The government must deal with the Mersin bus problem immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0017par0099	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0018par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. The first term of the KPSS personnel appointments have so far been announced in June, July in July, while the first term of the KPSS appointment for 2015 has been withdrawn by the State Chief of Staff in April. On June 7, 2015, the AKP's attempt to obtain political rants is still in KPS, but the university is in its final class and victimizing thousands of young people who have failed to graduate. Again, I urge the government to re-enact this recruitment in June, July, as it used to be; otherwise the victimization of our young people will cause serious problems and will really upset many of our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0019par0104	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a fact that you've turned hundreds of settlements into villages because their population has fallen below 2,000, and you've closed down their municipal corporate personalities with many promises. At the coming point, they all have dozens of problems from garbage to dehydration. Our people around here have been suffering for almost a year. 49 of these closed municipalities are in Afyonkarahisar. The construction of a medical clinic in the village of Balıkhisar in Şuhut district of Afyonkarahisar district has been halted. Our people are victims here. We've received dozens of calls from our villagers, asking if this is the quality of your service, and they expect the construction of the health clinic to be completed and open to the ministry as soon as possible. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0021par0109	Mr. Selfwave...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0022par0111	Thank you. The Syrian people's resistance to the Bezar Esed regime began four years ago today. About 300,000 Syrians were slaughtered during the time passed. In this massacre, Esed had a heavy responsibility for ordering the civilians to shoot with heavy weapons, and Esed was a bloody murderer, but not all 300,000 people who lost their lives were killed by Esed, nearly half of whom were killed by fanatical militants supported by AKP power. To say that all 300,000 people were killed by Esed means not to see civilians who were murdered by the Nusra Front and ISIS militants, only because they were Alevi. The AKP is probably resorting to this big lie to cover its heavy responsibility in Syria, but let them know that they will never be free of that responsibility.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0023par0114	You're past your expiration date.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0024par0115	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0025par0117	Mr. President, on March 10, 1972, 43 years ago, this Parliament approved the death sentences for Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. In the course of time, the victim and injustice of the death penalty has been adopted by everyone. Today, our Parliament feels once again the great sadness of making this decision. However, Mr. President, with the domestic security package that is being discussed today, with the powers vested in police and governors, even without a judicial verdict, it is intended to retreat into an environment where 77 million people living in Turkey can be neutralized. Parliament shouldn't allow such an environment. Forty-three years ago, we demand that this painful event be remembered today and that the Homeland Security package be withdrawn immediately.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0024par0118	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0026par0120	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I say this a lot, but nobody does it. We've got this Adana-Kozan, 55 kilometers. This government says it's going to double. And on the edges of this road -- our Hadjibeyli and Sarıçam neighborhood, the village became the neighborhood, here -- the refuge, and then the retaining wall -- there's always too much trouble because they didn't do it. The mayors are always complaining. Highway 5. There's the District Department, and that's Mersin. And even though we keep saying that they don't do it, would they, Mr. President, if we told them through you?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0024par0122	Let's see.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0026par0123	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0024par0124	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0027par0127	Mr. President, thank you. I have received a pledge from Mr. Aytuğ Atıcı, Republican People's Party MP, on information given by Mersin International Terminal Enterprises. That's right. Mersin's Intercity Terminal Enterprises was built by the Republican People's Party, which was responsible for the local government in Mersin, and the Mayor of Mersin, particularly the former Metropolitan Mayor and his deputy, were not in line to participate in the opening of the event. In the end, it is true that this was given long-distance Terminal Enterprises in exchange for a tender, which was more than the previous terminal price, but the winner was Mersin and Mersin Metropolitan Municipality. And the people of Mersin saw how cheap it was that this business in Mersin was rented before, because it was a great deal of money, because it was given to them in the contract. Time will tell if it will reflect on the prices. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0028par0130	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0029par0132	Thank you. Mr. President, our citizens are going to perform the pilgrimage, so those who have chosen, those who have come out, in the excitement of carrying out their pilgrimage with great hope, I'm already celebrating them all, but unfortunately, the fulfillment of this obligation with dollars instead of euros will be a financial burden on every citizen. Thus, an arrangement, an approach must be adopted, in order to eliminate the effects of the hapless effect on our citizens, who will fulfill the pilgrimage of the exchange between dollars and euros. The other issue, in İzmir, unfortunately, is that the governor, who, frankly, acts as AKP Mayor, has blocked the political party, association, NGOs from making press statements in different places in front of their buildings. Really, Izmir is an environment of freedom. Thus, the restrictions imposed on NGOs and parties in this regard are like a law of martial law. On the other hand, in Çanakkale, unfortunately, a subcontractor was made to criticize corruption. Such cruelty is absolutely unacceptable, I say, shame on you! In this regard, I would like to express on this occasion that the procedure of this subcontractor working for minimum wage at Çanakkale. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0030par0137	Mr. Proposal, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0031par0140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have false statements in the 72nd Union, and I have made promises to correct them. First of all, thank you very much for Mr. Recep, our Isparta MP, who is so unlucky. You are the man who appeared in Mecca at the same time in the Parliament. Recep's special correction: he wasn't Bornt Turan, you're remembering wrong. He's not really Baunt Turan, he's another friend of ours. On Monday (August 4th 2014), however, the 128th Union says that the meeting is sufficient on Monday (August 4th) over the polling of President Ayse Nur Bahçkapılı. I submit the proposal to your votes: "Okut" from CHP and HHP ranks; Deputy Group Chairman Muharrem İnce, Deputy Group Chairman Mr. Oktay Vural. Well, let's read the compasses. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Bulent Turan? No. Another one of our friends' names is read: "No. " One of our deputies calls us "Woe to the impostors, wow! One of our friends who showed up here when he wasn't really here wasn't in Bulent Turan Mecca. I was surprised that he was already in Mecca, how such a man could also be in Mecca. (x) I am correcting this, thank you to Recep Special.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0032par0144	That's the first time you've ever said thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0031par0145	Yes, sir, from the heart. And with regard to the Berkin Elvan clause, it starts in two years and six months. Why? I'm correcting them. There used to be a song: "Come night and come day, the boy who is afraid of the rooster." He said, "Come now with new laws, the man who is afraid of slinging." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0033par0150	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although we have asked the Finance Minister for a written question -- which is that there is no public economic institution -- that practices such as the tax-making of tax inspectors have been considered to be tax-designed in other municipalities in Turkey, that the rent and similar revenues of the Izmir Metropolitan Municipality are unfairly intended to be taxed, and that we ask the Finance Minister for non-traditional activities under the office head of the relevant municipality -- that is, without a public economic institution -- have been asked by the Minister of Finance to provide an answer on the 5/12/12 article in Turkey. Lastly, it was announced to the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality of İzmir Metropolitan Municipality that it has been taxed on institutions as of 30/11/2008, which operates in accordance with the Ministry of Environment Health. Meanwhile, as of 6/4/2012, Izmir MP Oguz Oyan was asked by Ankara and İstanbul major cities to issue a detailed report of their rents and similar revenues, according to the Right to Information Act 4982, and answers came from both municipalities in April and May 2012. According to this, the total income of the İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality's rent, right-of-occupancy income, moving-in income, parking spaces business revenues, car transit revenues, allocation revenues, allocations, rights and fees were reportedly totalled at $16,173,489 in 2011, while the City of Ankara's Metropolitan municipality's rent revenues were reported to be $332,83,862 euros in 2011. According to responses from Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, on 2 October and 9 October 2012, it has been revealed that the amount of the institutions paid were not paid or paid, the amount of the funds were paid by the Finance Ministry tax inspector Oğuz Oyan, again being asked by İzmir MP Oyan on September 5, 2012, and that they were not subject to tax taxes on the subject, according to answers from Ankara and İstanbul Metropolitan municipalities, respectively, on 2 October and 9 October 2012. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's answer on 2/9/2012 reached a more simultaneous conclusion, saying, "The city's rent revenues are 5520. In accordance with the law, the institution is exempt from its taxes." He was able to give his answer. (He is the subject of the Article 5520 Tax Act and the administration of municipalities of water, passenger transport and slaughterhouses. But that means that there is no sign of the demand of institutional tax on these revenues or of any sign of tax inspectors. All of this shows that discrimination and oppressive tax operations are systematically targeting Izmir Metropolitan Municipality. Taking into account these documented conflicted practices, we would put pressure on the opposition municipalities to see if the Finance Ministry applied double standards in tax reviews against municipalities, whether municipalities and similar activities were held in equal positions in the face of taxes, whether they were applied in accordance with the principles of generality and equality in taxes, to investigate whether they were applied in the tax, to investigate whether they were a part of the Systematic political operations aimed at limiting their incomes, to make them look like tax traffickers, and to provide them with respect to the Constitutional Laws on the basis of Article 10th Amendments and 10th Amendments. [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 9) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Bolu]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[Antalya]] 25) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As Mustafa Kemal University, founded in 1992, celebrates its 20th anniversary, the university's academic and administrative staff and students are remembered along with the very serious allegations discussed in Hatay's public, and these celebrations remain in the shadows. As a matter of fact, Mustafa Kemal University (MKO) has noted that on October 15, 2012, the university's academic opening ceremony of the school's academic year was created, protesting unlawful investigations, unlawful investigations against both academic and administrative staff, and as a result of the unjust punishments issued in the university, according to a joint statement by the State Representativeship of TMMOB and Hatay Medical Office. How many investigations have been launched into both administrative and academic personnel during the last two years that Professor Dr. Hosni Salih Göder has served at MKO celebrating the year of the 1st-20th Foundation, and what punishments have been given as a result of these investigations? What is the relationship between the number of investigations in the last two years and the number of investigations in the university's previous 18 years? Is it true that there have been more investigations in the last two years than before? If so, what are the reasons? 3- How many academic and administrative staff have been cut off from the university during the last two years of Professor Hosni Salih Moder's deployment? What are their motives? 4- How many academic and administrative staff have been forced to retire during the last two years of Professor Hosni Salih Göder's deployment? 5- How many academic and administrative staff have moved to another agency other than the MCU during the time of Professor Hosni Salih Göder as President? Why does he have to make this institution change? 6- Why is it that the Chancellor, who has been so successful in providing staff to his own followers, is having difficulty giving the faculty that he is not aware of? In other words, how many professors are waiting to be appointed as professors because they have no supporters of their own? Is it true that some professors have been waiting five years for a staff? Is this the three years of the five years when Professor Dr. Hosni Salih Moder used to consult with the former Rector Sharafettin Canda? 7- What are the objective criteria of Professor Hosni Salih Güder when he served as President of the school staff, with the purchase, appointment and upgrade of the deadline? 8- What are the objective criteria for international deployment when Professor Hosni Salih Göder served as President? Why is the president being so generous in placing his fellow professors abroad and being so stingy in tasking fellow professors whom he did not see close to him? What are the reasons for these biased attitudes? In 9-MC, how many investigations have been launched in the last two years of Professor Hosni Salih Moder's tour of duty, and what punishment have these investigations resulted in? In order to answer the questions mentioned above, in order to address the problems of both university academic and administrative staff and students who are victims of negatives and biased practices, and to protect their rights; by investigating the MCÜ Rector and executions, we propose the opening of Parliamental research under the need of the 99th and 105th Articles of the Turkish National Assembly, in order to determine and implement the measures that can be taken, in order to inform our great Parliament and our people. 1) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 8) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Bolu]] [[Hatay]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[Antalya]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The power of 320 megawatts in Çanakkale Province, Çanakkale Province, has not been run since 28/8/2012, due to the failure to resolve the problems in supply of limestone mixed with coal. As a result of the failure to operate, the loss of production, depending on the failure of the limestone, is to open a parliamentary study under Article 104, 105, and Article 98, of the Constitution, in order to help resolve obstacles to the plant's long-term supply problems, with the identification of public damage and responsibility due to the loss of the plant. [[Çanakkale]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 4) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Sinop]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] Çanakkale Province, Çanakkale district of Çan Province, Electrical Production A. The March 18 bell thermal plant (Santral) is a solid fuel energy production plant and uses coal as fuel. The plant is a thermal plant with fluid deposits, so it is used to burn with a certain amount of coal mixed with limestone in order to preserve sulfur dioxide during the burn. The tender, held on 9/1/2012/2011 after the end of the contract with the kirec company, ended at the end of 2011, was cancelled by the administration on 9/1/2012, after a complaint filed by a company on the same issue by the Public Contract Board (KEC) 19/1/2012 dates and 2012/UM. It has been estimated that the tender must be cancelled by the same conclusion as decision number I-425. The same developments were applied for the deposit of limestone, which was announced on 28/2/2012, and were cancelled by the administration on 17/5/2012, before it was decided on 4/6/2012 by the CIC on the same firm's objection. Finally, a tender for 27/12/12/12/12 will be announced on 2/9/2012 by the EUAS General Directorate, where the plant is connected and will receive 1.5 million tonnes of limestone. There are other developments confirming this stance, which can be considered a lack of understanding, given that the administration has cancelled both tenders and has based its reasons on Article 16 in the first and 5 in the second part of Public Contraction Law 4734. For example, at the same time, 21 tenders were made by the Turkish Sugar Factory Corporation to provide limestone for factories in the various provinces, and the tenders provided between 13,000 and 50,000 tonnes of limestone. Although the amount of limestone purchases in the amount mentioned may not be sufficient to meet the plant's long-term needs, such as the Candy Factory sample, the plant could have been able to work from 28/8/2012 with similar short-term purchases. However, the agreement on the deposit of limestone on 27/12/2012 is 10.3.1. It is estimated that the contractor will start work within 150 days of signing the contract and complete the work in part delivery within 60 months. It is clear that the plant will not be operational until May 2013, so this 320 megawatt power plant will be disabled for nearly nine months if the contractor uses its time to start the contract. As in the example of the Sugar Factorys, other public institutions and institutions that need limestone (for example Kemerköy and Yeniköy Operators, etc.). While there is no supply problem, we offer and propose a parliamentary investigation to help resolve long-term supply problems by identifying public damage and responsible for this problem at the plant.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0034par0323	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0033par0324	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0034par0327	Now, lawmakers and groups have been banned from visiting the Parliament for up to 20 Martas. I mean, I don't think it's right for a Parliament to stop visiting with the public during a period like this. That's it, the MP's election season, he's gonna have problems, and he's gonna tell you about it, so if he doesn't make a citizen feel his presence in the House during a period like this, where is he going to feel it? There's a no-visit curfew coming up. What is the meaning of this ban on visitors? The issue of the ban on visitors to parliament can only be done because, and only because, and perhaps, there is a tradition during the budget. But it's not appropriate for visitors to be banned during such a period. Also, it's being sent to groups. We have a job as representations. Is that even possible? I mean, I represent the National Party of Action, because there's no visitors, and my party has a job as a representative. Civil society organizations are coming, people are coming, people are coming, people are coming. It is not acceptable for a party to ban visitors in a way that prevents them from even representing themselves, and in this regard, it is unacceptable for party groups to make anyone a requester. I think it's urgent that we turn this around. I've been promised this. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0035par0331	Mr. President, we just found out in the hallway, by chance, by a letter brought by a fellow law enforcement officer. I mean, when was this invitation made? And in an environment without our supervisor, we've learned that between March 9th and March 20th, the ban on visitors was brought into the House by chance. Now, it's the last term of our House. Now there is no reason why a decision that we all agreed to work together in the budgetary period of this House should be allowed to be allowed to be celebrated in the last month, in the last days. Many of our constituents have started to react because they've learned this decision. We have group meetings in the coming weeks. Our MPs are waiting every day to meet their constituents in their rooms, so their doors aren't closed, they're not our MPs'. Naturally, voters want to visit lawmakers, they want to talk about their problems, but an application like this will suddenly bring police against police officers, police forces, visitors, and us against them. I just heard about it. So we're just having a conversation with the group's deputy leader of the main opposition party, who just happened to be aware of it. We cannot possibly accept such an application. Our visitors will come, but our House must take this decision back and change it immediately.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0036par0334	I will. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0037par0336	So if the AKP MPs don't want visitors...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0038par0337	Let them take a separate precaution, forbid it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0037par0338	They can't stop ours.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0039par0339	They should ban their own men, so I guess they can't.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0038par0340	In what capacity do they prevent my congressman from speaking to the public? That's not possible!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0040par0341	I will. Research motions have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Commission on the Equality of Women's Opportunities and Human Rights Review also has a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. On Monday (March 16, 2015), 18 p.m. of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A conference in Nairobi, Kenya, will be held on 21 April 23 April 2015 on "Global Alliance for the Participation of the Obstruction." The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0041par0360	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit02spe0040par0361	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit03spe0040par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the first reading of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 17 March 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Rhine Vestphalia State of Germany will hold a meeting in Düsseldorf, Germany on the "Sister Cities Practice" Parliamentary Talk between North Rhine Vestphalia and Turkey. The issue of accession to this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament (EP) Anti-Accession Action Unit will organise the European Parliament's Constitutional Affairs Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee co-operation and Parliamentary Seminar in Brussels, Belgium, on 23 March 24 March 2015, on "Enhancing Political Culture for Sustainable Democracy and Increase Political Dialogue." The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit03spe0042par0023	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit03spe0040par0024	I'll vote with the electronic device, make a decision and call the number. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0040par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 73th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The third reading of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's parliament's ruling vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-vote the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In New York, United States, on March 9, 13, 2015, a delegation of MPs of the United Nations (UN) Women's Status Commission's 59th term meeting was approved by the Court of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Decision 4/3/2015 and 95. Participation in this programme is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 10 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0043par0014	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0040par0015	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Turf, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Aksıntutan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Günal, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ikır, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Belen. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday/3/2015 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 5 March 2015, it was given by the Deputy Chair of the Bingöl Group İdris Baluken (1721 rows no. lu) It has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry submitted to the Turkish Parliament for the purpose of investigating the pressures, allegations of corruption and issues stemming from the rectory's administration will be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in the presentations on Tuesday 10/3/2015, and the talks will be held in the same dated joint. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0044par0038	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, there's a buzzing in the living room. If you interfere, I won't be able to speak like this.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0045par0041	Congressmans, let's talk outside, please. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0044par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a very important matter to discuss here. We specifically ask that the sensitive lawmakers listen to talks about this proposal with their candy cane and set an attitude accordingly. We can tell you about the problems at the University of Bingol, but in fact, the problems with universities all over Turkey, the pressures on students, and the progress that they're taking today, we're going to share with you as much as possible. Dear lawmakers, 16 students have been on continuous, rotating hunger strikes at the University of Bingol for 15 days. You've managed to add another first in your time of power to the shame of democracy in this country. In this country, because of the pressures, you have written your name in history as a government that leads university students to a hunger strike because of the pleasure of university administrations. This hunger strike resistance, which began at the University of Bingol, has now become increasingly common, creating an agenda by growing up in almost many universities in Turkey. Hundreds of students have now starved their young bodies at the University of Hocakkale, at the University of Çanakkale, at the University of Çanakkale, at the University of Çorum, at Adana, at the universities of Alexanderun, at Bitlis, at many universities in Bitlis, trying to shout their own demands in the effort to announce their voice to the government and parliament. I'm afraid we've never heard anything about this from the government or Congress, except what the People's Democratic Party has said or expressed here on the stand. The demands of the students are very clear. The demands of students at the University of Bingöl are also the demands of students at the University of Korum and Çukurova University. These students are expressing four basic demands. Believe me, I'm ashamed, as a congressman, as I'm expressing these demands from here. As a member of parliament who considers the democratic future of this country, I am ashamed to address the right of students to issue a free press statement as a request from this bench. I'm embarrassed to be here, expressing the students' demands that their private security personnel be taken off-line. I'm ashamed when I'm here expressing students' demands that the police don't randomly enter the university, that the police don't torture students on the university campus when they enter the university. Again, because of a press release attended by the students, I am ashamed to address here the demands for the removal of antidemocratic practices, particularly the suspension sentences from the chancellor's and university administration's arbitrary attitude. If a university has not already met the demands for these things, then the university's identity as a university has been eliminated. As I said, the same is true not only at the University of Bingol, but also at the University of Çorum, and at Çanakkale, and at the Hosheel, and at Çukurova. Students, the chancellor and the chancellor's administration are trying to announce their voices to the Parliament, the government, about their arbitrary pressures, practices, punishments, police torture methods and the use of democratic rights that will reach the level of terror within the campus. It's a shame the sound hasn't been heard so far. With this research proposal, we must show the demands of all university students in Turkey that this Assembly cannot be indifferent, it will be sensitive. Therefore, I would like to say that we expect support from other opposition parties, particularly the ruling party, as well. See, the summation of the process that started at the University of Bingol is that students at the University of Bingol issued a press statement to protest that one of their friends had been murdered at Dicle University had been executed by police bullets, they were suspended because of that press statement; on the occasion of the Day of Anti-violence Against 25 November Women -- which is now the most important agenda of Turkey's agenda against women -- they made a press statement against her, they faced suspension sentences; on March 21st, they found that there was no violence at the university campus; on March 21st, they were facing an investigation of the university's leadership. Now, this university administration is trying to create perceptions, as if there were something different there, by spreading false information to both the CEC and the government officials. Some of the students are supposedly from Kurdistan, where students from the west can't read. They said, "That's why he's violent with some of the students, and he's put this kind of pressure on academic staff, academics, and the university administration has developed a process. I'd like to state that this is all based on false misinformation, and it's intended to mislead you. Look, I have a document, a document sent to students by the President of the University of Bingol -- and I'm ashamed to read it from here -- a document about the investigation process for you because you attended a public march that was not allowed in the university campus under the Day of Fighting Violence and Solidarity for Women. This is a document of shame on your behalf. I've spoken to the head of staff about this process. Regarding the press statement, the head of the RCC says he is ashamed of the situation in which students exercise their democratic rights. Look, we're warning your government and the chancellor and the university administration. If any of these students who are on hunger strike get hurt, believe me, you'll be in trouble. We are all at the end of our patience, especially with the pressure that the students face, and especially with the 15 days they've been putting their bodies on a hunger strike. The Prime Minister needs to deal with this immediately, especially as Minister of National Education. When university students are on hunger strike in a country, a government cannot turn its back and be insensitive. I've expressed here several times about the University of Bingol, corruption, irregularities, the Chancellor's family business practice, and we have their written documents. You've got a Bingol MP from the academy, ask him. If you don't trust us with how Bingöl University turned into a family company, how many academics from the rector's last name were employed at that university, how the president's son was taken into a teaching staff with a day's work illegally, how the return capital was invested into the rector's account for the rehabilitation department established by the University of Bingol, how the president received an irregular power vehicle, how he was jealous of the president's office, how he had to build a trillion housing homes within the university campus. These corruptions and irregularities are taking place. It's not a family college. Certainly not an antidemocratic institution where they're trying to build a police university. If there is such an effort, we must stand before it first, the entire House must stop. So what I'm trying to sum up here in a limited amount of time is the corruption, the irregularities, the pressure and persecution of students at the University of Bingol, particularly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We demand that a research commission be set up to study all universities. We ask that all four political parties, especially the academics, share their support in a common way. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0046par0062	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Amasya MP Avni Erdemir... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0047par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding a motion by the HDP Group on the investigation of corruption at Bingöl University. I salute you all with respect, with conversation. Dear lawmakers, as EC PARTI authorities, we deeply believe that there is a close relationship between education and the country's destiny and its future, and with that belief, we have always put a great emphasis on education, and we have always devoted the largest share of the budget to education. Dear friends, we all know that universities are institutions that produce science, teach and share science with society. We also believe that human and economic development is possible only by scientific development, by the existence of universities. With that understanding, there have been significant developments in higher education since 2002. We wanted to get our provinces together with the university, and we've opened colleges with every single one of them, and we're out of colleges. Yes, because of the vision of the AK PARTY, we don't have a university today. My fellow lawmakers, in 2002, unfortunately, we had 76 universities, including 53 states and 23 foundation universities. Today, we have a total of 176 universities, 104 of which are state and 72 of them foundation. There were 76 universities in Turkey before the AK PARTI rule; yes, it went up to 176. This means that the AK PARTY government has established 100 new universities in Turkey. Dear friends, our goal is to open the college door to every son of ours who has reached the age of college, and that is our goal. Dear friends, yes, when we look at the personnel structure, the number of lecturers in 2002 is more than 143,000 today. Dear friends, yes, in 2002, the SEC budget was $2.5 billion; in 2015, when we looked at our budget, 18.5 billion. Yes, there's a higher education budget that goes from $2.5 billion to $18.5 billion. So there's a 7.5-fold higher education budget in the AK PARTI administration. My dear friends, again, in 2002, the GDP of the university budget was 0.71; today, in 2015, it rose to 0.95. Dear friends, in 2002, the CEC budget was divided into 2.54, and in 2015 it rose to 3,91. On the other hand, important improvements have been made in the rights of our teaching staff. In short, in the last 13 years, there have been unimaginable developments in our universities. Dear MPs, dear friends, we also care about the alleged corruption of the HDP Group at Bingöl University. Because we also know that corruption and science can't be combined with corruption and development. We also know that corruption is a disease that devours all the material, spiritual values of society. We know that corruption is an invitation to poverty. My dear friends, again, we must remember that we will follow this matter to the end as the ruling AK PARTI. Of course, the inevitability of the university is free thought, which we believe, but we also know that the balance of freedom-security is important. Where there is no security, where violence prevails, we also know that free thinking can never be science, and we need to remember that. Dear friends, you'll appreciate that in a month, elections will begin in Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be on vacation. We also see that there is no way to conduct the operation of a research commission that we are setting up today. A month from now, none of us are here, we're in the field, we're in the field. My dear friends, yes, there are laws today that our nation is impatient for. So, I say our House should be on its agenda as soon as possible, and as the AK PARTY Group, I declare that we are against the motion to investigate, and I salute you all, with respect, with conversation.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0048par0082	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mersin MP Aytug Atcı... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0049par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I salute those who have taken science as a guide to life, who have accepted universities as a place of science, not for staff, rant and family, and who do not owe their political careers and gains to the shadow of so-called strong will. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are raising a scream from Bingol. I, too, have been a volunteer MP for four years. Who's the screamer? The screaming Bingol college students, the ones we're going to trust our future with. What do these young men say, fearlessly and valiantly? They say: There are pressures at the University of Bingöl, there are allegations of corruption at the University of Bingol, there are issues from the rectory administration at the University of Bingol. The MPs who hear this scream say: "Let's hear this scream, let's not bury our heads in the sand, let's investigate." Why? Because the speaker who spoke on behalf of the AKP Group tried to explain to us in different ways what this Turkey had seen on December 17th and 25th, and that they were not even ear hairs at all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0050par0088	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0049par0089	So, who needs to hear college students scream like that? Of course, the government needs to hear it first. Do you hear government officials and government deputies? No. If you look at the desks, some of them are working to become a deputy again, knocking on the door of the palace, and some of them have lost hope of becoming a congressman, can I enter the palace? These are the problems of all the universities in our country that I'm about to tell you about, and unfortunately, it's a pity that we have brought democracy to you. In my country, you say, these young people have to put their young bodies to death to make their voices heard. Don't you have any shame in people who don't hear that voice? Don't you guys ever get bored? What kind of democratic country did you create? What have you done to the country? People are shouting there, there's corruption. They say, they show you with their documents. The University Rector took a lot of people from the same last name. He's got a job, he's got an academic, he's got corruption, he's got law. They say, "Forget it. College students get up, they say: "There's pressure on us here, we can't express our ideas freely." You say, "Never mind them, sit down." There are police officers all over the university. I don't know if this is a police station or a college. We've given up civilians, the official uniformed officers come to our canteens, they curse us here, they wait outside the rectory building, they provoke us. They say, "Hear us." You say, "Forget it." You say, "We don't have time." You say, "We don't have time." You say, "We have more important things than that." What's more important? Homeland security package. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0051par0091	No one said that.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0049par0092	The man says: "The police are killing me." You say: "Wait, I'll give the police more authority so that they can root you out." That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0051par0093	Not at all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0049par0094	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0051par0095	Yeah, talk straight. Oh, my God!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0049par0096	You're not supposed to do that. You need to hear the voices of those young students. If you don't hear it, our people will pay you back. University students say: "They're tagging us, they're tagging us as Alevi. " They write our names because we make a press release, and they're real, and you don't move a muscle. What happened to you guys? What happened to you? You may be AKP people, but you all have humanity in you. What happened to you! Are you going to come to your senses after these students are dead? I'm telling you, they're on a death fast, don't you understand? Aren't you going to move at all? How can you ignore so much corruption, so much unlawfulness? You did the same for the people who put their bodies to death in prisons. Those people went to death, their bodies were devastated, their brains melted, and then you were gracious enough to hear their voices, after we provoked them so much. You have no right to do this. If you're doing this, you don't have the right to get up here and shout about advanced democracy. The students say: "All the cleaning companies, all the canteen contracts are being given to the side, hear us scream." He says, "There were 76 universities, we took them up to 176." Well, it's obvious why you took them out! You've set up 100 more colleges, and you've created 100 more rant doors. From 76,000 to 143,000 professors, you say. Sounds good. What do these students become when they graduate from here? Can they get a job? They can't find it. Well, you're saying that we've transferred so much money to education. Your number, your friend just told me, we've raised the BCC budget from 2.5 billion to 18.5 billion. You're saying that. So, what do the PISA results say in training? So the mind doesn't judge these things at all? You spend that much money and our international training is going backwards, you guys, can't you assess that? You spend money, you spend it, but education goes backwards. Look, these are not my words as an opposition MP, but your statements, the evaluations of international agencies. So in your understanding, let's print money into colleges, let's get this money into somebody's pocket, but nobody cares about education. You're up, we've made unimaginable corrections to the teaching staff, you say. For God's sake, there are a lot of professors out there, and you don't listen to anything, you've ruined the faculty! You've brought a system called the performance system in universities; the teachers have become enemies of each other, because of you, we've increased their rights. You're clearly lying here. You have no right to say this, you're the MP, you represent the nation, and you have to tell the truth. You have to tell the truth, even if it hurts. But you get up here, and you try to fool the public, and you say, "Where there's violence, there's no free thought." Who can say no to that? Violence in the House, violence in the streets, violence in the university, uh, free thought, of course not. Look, I'll give you a few numbers. I'll tell you a few jobs first, why are you punishing the students? See, the students demanded that he be taught in Kurdish, punish him, distribute magazines without permission, punish him, open banners, exchanges, punish him. The students protested against the CEC. Well, they're not afraid of God, but you're the one who's protesting against the YOK. Weren't you the one who was protesting the RDC? Now, you're punishing young people because they're protesting against you. Don't read without permission; wow, I love your democracy! Look, I've been reading the SEC reports, and I'm about to give you the numbers about how many students you've hurt. You wake up because you didn't attend the university's proper jogging ceremonies, and punish the student, and fear God. Look, since 2003, an increasing number of investigations start at 3,000. Every year, you investigate over 6,000 students from 2004 to 2011. You don't talk to these students, you don't solve the dorm problems of these students, you block the free opinions of these students, you don't solve the scholarship problems, and then you investigate them. You have only one purpose, and you say: "You will think as I do, or I will cut off your head. " Don't do this, don't do this to this country. These young people, these students, they won't think like you, thank God they won't think like you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0052par0108	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0052par0110	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0111	Mr. President has stated that I don't find these allegations important about my speech. In my speech, I stated that I found these allegations of corruption important. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0052par0112	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0116	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the poet says: Let's see if we can figure out what's going on with dimples. We don't know a thing or two about it. We have a little bit of wisdom.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0054par0119	You wouldn't do that to college students if you had knowledge.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0120	Dear lawmakers, we know what we're saying. That's exactly what I'm saying: we care about allegations of corruption, and we're going to be hard followers of it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0054par0121	If you care, why didn't you let him out? Strong doubt, reasonable doubt, you voted against it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0122	And again, I'm saying there's no way corruption and science can be combined.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0055par0123	Why did you do it? Why?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0124	I'm expressing that corruption is eating away at all the material spiritual values of society.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0056par0125	To the team, to the team. What you're saying is different, what you're doing.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0126	You call it freedom, you call it autonomous college, you expect political power to interfere with the university, on the other hand. What, you're not contradicting yourself?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0057par0128	Bravo, Master.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0058par0129	Way to go, Hodja.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0130	Yes, universities are autonomous, and you expect political power to interfere with the university. Yes, it's a matter of judgment, judgment follows.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0059par0131	You're the one interfering with the university, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He didn't leave any room without interference.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0132	My dear friends, yes, the PISA results have been mentioned. No one can say that PlSA results have gone backwards from 2002 to today, but the PISA results say that Turkey is the country that makes the difference between sub-income groups and higher income groups in the OECD countries the best point.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0060par0133	Yeah, they wouldn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0053par0134	Yes, the equality of opportunities in Turkey is better than the OECD countries in the last 12 years. Dear friends, in short, as the AK PARTY government, we know what we're doing, and our nation knows it well. I say our nation rewards and continues to reward the power of the EC PARTY, which raises 2.5 billion to 18.5 billion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0061par0138	We'll see, we'll see. June 7th is the deadline.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0139	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, you want political power to interfere with the university. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0063par0140	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we're not asking political power to interfere with the university. Don't cast a shadow, no more favors. Get your hands off of those universities, brother. That's what we want. We're telling you not to intervene, but to withdraw your interference. Don't fool the people here. Now, we're talking about Bingley. Look, we're talking about something important. I'd like the AKP's Bingol MP to come and speak here. You have an academic MP. The MP of Bingley spoke. I'm the honorary MP of Bingöl. I'm taking care of my knowledge. Where's your Bingol MP, brother? And he's an academic. Mr. Special is about to come in and give a speech in the name of Bingöl. Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0064par0145	I'm an honorary MP.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0146	Well, doesn't Bingöl have a deputy? Bingöl gave you two MPs. We're talking about the children who died of hunger strike in Bingol, and you're enjoying yourselves and spending time here. Look...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0065par0147	Don't yell, why are you yelling, Hajji? It's not a scream, Hajji, it's not a scream.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0148	Look, in Bingol, your chancellor, the chancellor you appointed, gets up and builds himself a palace and you applaud this palace. Within a year, he's building a young palace for the university presidency. Where does he get his courage? Of course, it is natural for the congregation to do so if the imam does so. The same chancellor does not complete the construction of the cultural center that lasts for years. What's the need for culture, sir? What's the need for culture?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0066par0150	Don't you have a Bingol MP?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0151	I'll build the rectory building, enjoy myself in it. I'll put the panzers in front of him. There are MPs who will defend me, and we will appoint them, and they will defend me, he says. The PISA results-- Congressman, we're going backwards with the PISA results.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0067par0153	Absolutely not.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0062par0154	You'll compare them to other countries; they're moving forward, and they think we're falling behind. Make the evaluation right.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0067par0156	We're in front of OECD countries.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0068par0157	Is there no CHP MP from Bingöl?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0069par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0070par0159	Yeah...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0069par0160	For the same reason, I want a word.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0070par0161	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0069par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, we don't mean to interfere in a scientific, autonomous, democratic, neutral college environment. The problem is that a college environment like that, right now, has been wiped out. At this moment, the scientific, autonomous, democratic university understanding of this country's many universities, including the University of Bingöl, has been completely rescinded as a result of the pressure and pleasure of the rectors. We're voicing very serious allegations of corruption here. For $1 million, the number we know - a dwelling was built. This is not the White Palace, but the palace of Baydaş, which is in the center of Bingol. There are people living in 50 square metres of temporary prefabricated houses because of the 1971 earthquake. Because of the 2003 earthquake, there are earthquake victims who can't pay thousands of lira bills. In a city like this, if you build a house for 1 million TL, if you drive a sub-adjusted vehicle for 350,000 TL, if you rehire a power vehicle for 10,000 TL a month, you can be insensitive to them, but we can't be insensitive, we will intervene. Especially when these students put their young bodies to hunger, their consciences have turned to blood. These students may suffer permanent neurological damage at any moment. You all have children, do you have to be sensitive when these children reach the edge of death? That's what we're saying, or we're all defending the autonomy of the university if there's a college environment that needs to happen. What suits you is not only to be insensitive about the situation of these students but rather to support our proposal for corruption. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0071par0168	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The last word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mr. Recep, MP of Isparta. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0072par0175	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge by the People's Democratic Party against the motion to investigate pressures, allegations of corruption and the problem stemming from the presidency. The basis for both the research proposal and its content, its content, its content, its content, its contents, its content, its contents, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content, its content. We're not simplifying any of it, but if such actions, such verbs, if they've been committed there -- if I think a judicial process has begun -- it's a common wish for all of us to continue, without interfering in the judicial process, to continue in the most healthy way, to end it, if anyone is responsible, to be punished to the end. Not all of us, all the MPs in this House, would stand up for the corrupter. The speaker who just spoke for the CHP here, you did this, you did this; this happened here, this happened... is showing the AK PARTY Group as the head of all operations in the administration. You did it, you did it, you did it. My brother, if a bureaucrat is doing something wrong, it's wrong, we're not defending it, no one's defending it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0073par0178	You've cleared all corruption, and you won't clear it?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0072par0179	If somewhere, under a university administration, not only at the University of Bingol, but at all universities in Turkey, there's a pressure, if there's a mismanagement of the rectors, if there's a waste management, we have to stand against them all together and stop.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0073par0180	Do what you have to do, do what you have to do, you're the power.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0072par0181	We also call on all university presidents: we don't want to hear such claims here. We want a country where science is talked about, science is talked about, universities are really branded in the world, we want a geography. Our brothers and sisters who are fasting to death, and our students there, will fast this death fast as soon as possible. We call to the authorities from here, to all the public officials who are there: at the point where the university students have put an end to this action, both the chancellor and the university administration need to go and listen to the issues of managing the property there, and let's find a solution. And in order to get a result of the death penalty, we'd like to advise them not to harm their own bodies from here.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0073par0182	Do as you must, do as you must, you are the ruling party, do as you must.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0072par0183	What we want is a free university, a free university. I hope to God a free college is set up. There are minor setbacks in this, but we're doing everything we can as an AK PARTY in terms of legal legislation, administrative legislation, which should be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, let's not go over these allegations, let's go all the way. Wherever there's corruption, let them go all the way to the end, and let them pay for it. In a oppressive environment, we don't want our college students to study. My compliments to you all for a free university, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0073par0186	We'll see in a moment at the vote!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0074par0187	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0075par0188	Mr. President, during his oratory speech, he stated that these issues were reflected in the judiciary and therefore that the judiciary is conducting this process. It's as if a healthy judicial process has been carried out by all these allegations that we've made. I'd like to inform the General Assembly on this matter.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0074par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0076par0190	No hard feelings, but...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0075par0191	He misdirected the General Assembly. I'd like to inform you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0074par0192	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0075par0195	Dear lawmakers, look, we're saying that there's been some dark planning here, especially over the last three months. In all our talks with the government, we say that in the centre of these dark plans, the Chief Constable of Bingol, the State of Bingol and the President of the University of Bingol are consciously involved. That's what's happening in college. The Chief of Police sends police to the university and tortures students on campus; then those lists are given to the prosecutor by the President and the Chief of Police; they are detained by house raids at midnight; they are tried to be arrested. Look, there's no punishment in court for the irregularities we're saying and the pressure on students. Three students were arrested, they were acquitted, they were evacuated. So the judiciary says there's no need for any punishment, and the University Rector investigates 130 students and punishes 130 students. The Bingol Prosecutor's Office is publishing a statement as if he were the President's attorney. What university students have done there is contrary to the Constitution. The Bingol Prosecutor's Office publishes a statement in the Bingol press, despite the court's acquittal. Obviously, look, we're warning you that there's a dark conspiracy, including the police commissioner, the prosecutor, and the president, including the assassination of the Chief Constable, without trial executions, pressure on university students. We don't know if it's parallel or intersecting with you, or if it's your component, but it's your job to find out. We also agree on the problems of college students, and hopefully it will be resolved, and the authorities will be sensitive. You are not in a position to say. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're the power. I'm saying that by supporting this motion, you can demonstrate your sensitivity.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0077par0201	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0078par0202	Mr. President, both speakers who just spoke on behalf of the AKP have stated that these matters should be thoroughly investigated, there are reports. They both said it had to be handled, but they said they were against the establishment of such a commission by taking the word against it. So they're misleading the public in a two-way manner. If you'll excuse me, I'll bring it up.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0079par0203	Sir, is there such a thing? If you promise me that, I'll give up!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0080par0205	Now, I'll make you a promise, but from now on, it's better to make the reasons right. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0081par0209	Dear friends, we don't take this stand just to talk. We've had hundreds of conversations, and all we care about is, can you really understand us? It's a two-way, hypocritical policy for me to go up there and make fun of people with sarcastic smiles and say, "Sir, these are very important things," and then say, "No" and then vote here.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0082par0210	Sir, he's accusing me of sarcasm.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0081par0211	You have no right to mislead the people. You're a government party, you have responsibilities, you're an executive. We're gonna come in here and talk about our problems, not you. We'll come up here and offer you suggestions. You're coming in, offering yourself suggestions. The world hasn't seen anything like it yet. With our suggestions, you need to find a solution. The people chose you for this, and the people gave you power over it, and said: "The opposition will offer you, and you will solve it. Now you weep more than we do. Such a policy, such a method of government, is not in any part of the world. Let's drop the double, hypocritical politics, come out valiantly, youngly. These need to be investigated. Take care of your two deputies who say, let's set up this commission. It doesn't have to be over in three months, we'll have it done in a month. If you do this, all the universities will be tempted, all the universities will be at their feet. As long as you are from here, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has set up a commission to take care of our children's rights to free the universities. Say, see if anything changes in Turkey. We don't want to stand in front of you and talk, we just want to make sure you understand things. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0083par0214	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0084par0215	He said we're following a hypocritical policy.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0083par0216	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0084par0219	Mr. President, dear friends, we're trying to listen to everyone, but let me tell you, it's hard to listen to Mr. Horseman, he's tired, he's sitting there, he's talking to himself like he's fighting with himself. The way he talks... It has something to do with the law, of course, Mr. Horseman, the way he talks is not the way he talks like a lawyer who does drama in Roman courts. I don't think that's a way to tell the other side what you're saying. You're wrong, but if you obey what I say, you'll be right. It's not a good style, Mr. Horseman. Second, no one can put up a mortgage on the will of the General Assembly, and if you make such a decision, you will become hypocrites. We'll always talk about the General Assembly of Parliament, the free will of the Regents, and then we'll say, "If you don't do what I say, you're a hypocrite." It's not a respect for the will of the Regents, it's a disrespect. Let the trustees listen to what you say, appreciate it, put a will in that frame. If you refuse, you're a hypocrite. Excuse me, there's no such thing. What's the name of this place? The legislature, the legislature.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0085par0221	I wish it were.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0084par0222	This isn't the study, research and conclusion of every subject that comes here. We're not in a tribal state, the state has its own rules of control. If there's corruption in the university, there are ways to study it, Mr. Shooter, you're from the university, so there are other institutions in this country. We're going to take all the institutions on our own? If we investigate everything, we can only come to a conclusion. Such an approach is not right, my friends.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0086par0223	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0087par0224	Mr. President, the speaker made it clear that I was disrespectful and insulting. I mean, I really didn't want to take words again, but...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0084par0225	You spoke of hypocrisy, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0086par0226	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0087par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. I really don't want to take your word for it, but there's no way we're gonna shut up over this kind of bullying. First of all, learning to listen is of great benefit.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0088par0230	And I don't want to talk.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0087par0231	"It's hard to listen to me." said the speaker. Yeah, it's hard to listen to me, and it's hard to tolerate me because I'm telling the truth, and I'm smacking you in the face. That's why I'm here. I don't insult or insult any of you in any of my speeches, but when the time comes, I say the words so hard that it's really hard to listen to me. I really congratulate you on detecting this. Besides, you're saying I fought with myself. I'm a man of peace with myself. My fight is with you, not me. I'm fighting with you, and I'm fighting with these cynical smiles, and I'm fighting with these demeaning smiles.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0089par0234	Mr. President, that's not a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0087par0235	My fight is with you. When a congressman is talking here, it's my fight with those who laugh disrespectfully here. Understand that. I don't fight with anyone else. Besides, he thinks I have something to do with the law -- which means we've learned a little bit when we're really stuck here -- I had nothing to do with it. I didn't say you were a hypocrite if you didn't do what I said. Two of your brothers spoke here, two of your deputies spoke, and they both said: "You have to investigate these. I said, "Now if you say no, it's hypocritical politics." Again, I'll say it again. Not if you don't do what I say, but if you contradict yourself, it's called double politics, which means run to the rabbit, and catch the hound. But our people understood that. He's seen your face and he's seen your insides.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0090par0239	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0091par0244	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit04spe0090par0245	Okay, I'll just call the number. ... I submit to your votes that those who agree... Those who don't agree... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0090par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 73th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Tuesday (March 10th 2015), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On March 10, 2015, it was suggested by Kütahya MP Alim Izm and his friends that "the meeting of the engineers in ASELSAN should be conducted on Tuesday (March 10th 2015) by identifying the reasons behind the untimely and alarming deaths of the engineers and the facts that have occurred in public, to ensure that employees can carry out their projects in safety, and to determine the measures that should be taken into consideration for their problems. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0092par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group proposal for the agenda of the General Assembly of Parliament's research proposal, which has been submitted by the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute the High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. The subject of our proposal, as our Council member has just read, is that the measures that need to be investigated and taken are the facts behind the recent deaths of engineers, known as ASELSAN, Military Electronic Industry Inc, which is simply ASELSAN. If there is an ASELSAN, a very important institution of the Republic of Turkey, ASELSAN, is present in the agenda of the Supreme Assembly, which is again on the agenda of the case of a 28-year-old engineer named Erdem Uður, on January 15, 2015. The young children of this country have passed different tests in a very important institution such as ASELSAN, where they've been working on these projects with very important issues, and why engineers who have developed and designed the electronic systems of F-16 planes to identify the enemy, and why are killed behind their backs, why are they being killed; who is behind it, what has the government done, what has been done since 2006; the prosecution investigations haven't been concluded until now; in them, what facts have been hidden, or if they haven't been investigated. Dear MPs, when they came to Ankara on January 15, 2015 to check the house of our friend because he did not go to work for two days at the address of Çankaya, Cebeci neighborhood, Akat Street, Akat Street, there is a demand for the public to know the truth behind the fact that ASELSAN Engineer Erdem Uğur was found dead on his bed with a blanket over his mouth and a large tube hose. With this death, it has revealed that once again, in past forgotten history, the event that began first on August 7, 2006, which resulted in the deaths of five of our engineers. After being found dead in the bed of a young man named Erdem Uður, the suspicious deaths that occurred earlier in ASELSAN have again come to the agenda of both media and public opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to share these previous suspicious deaths with you and the public once again. On August 7, 2006, an engineer named Hüseyin Başbilen was found dead in his vehicle at age 31. An engineer who graduated from Middle East Technical University found cuts on his left wrist and neck, and the autopsy said he committed suicide. However, the prosecution's investigation raises different suspicions about the death of the engineer in question, but it cannot be concluded. On January 16, 2007, another fellow engineer named Ankara, Lakebaş, Halim Üssem Ünal, a graduate of ODTÜ Electrical Engineering Department, a young man who also works in ASELSAN, is said to have committed suicide or suicide in his vehicle. The engineer who's been working at ASELSAN for three years is somehow lost. The date is 26 January 2007, and Ankara, Westkent, 26-year-old Middle East Technical University electrical engineering graduate Evrim Yançekken is again committing suicide in his home. Two years in ASELSAN, 26 - year - old evolutionary Yançekken jumps out the window of his house on the 7th floor and takes his life. Another suspected death occurred on October 7, 2007, again in Ankara, at Bando Schools Command. Our young man Burhanddin Volcano, a graduate of the Computer Engineering Department of Hacettepe University, also worked in ASELSAN for two years in the Command Control and Software Engineering Department, showed superior success in the Air Command Control Department, which was selected from eight engineers as two of the most successful engineers, but was shared with the public on 7 October 2007 when he committed suicide with a Vizör gun in the duty officer room. It turns out his commanders did not allow him to commit suicide the day his wife and family filed a complaint against him. Military Prosecutor Omar Taha Özkan applied to the statements of his wife, his father, and his colleagues, but couldn't get there much longer, stood still, couldn't be made clear. The date is 25 January 2012, and the location is again known as Ankara South Environment Road, a young engineer named Hakan Orphan, who was killed at the ASELSAN Akyurt Facility after the loss of steering control of the 06 GGR 85 car under ASELSAN. There are many different expressions and secrets in their life stories, but one of the things that they all have in common is that the Turkish Armed Forces, such as ASELSAN, are in a very important organization, where they are engaged in projects run by very intelligent people, such as Turkish F-16, who have signed a system that can show whether they are friends or enemies when faced by an airplane. After nationalizing the aircraft recognition systems, a similar success is about to be put to rest while the United States and Israel are close to losing control of guided electronic systems. So the inability to shed light on the deaths of very special qualified young people working at this private institution, the fact that the findings found in prosecutorial investigations were unconfirmed with statements in the autopsy reports, but somehow these deaths were kept secret behind a curtain before they could be concluded, the fact that they would be kept secret, the fact that they would be carried out by an important foundation of the Republic of Turkey, and that there would be no need to work in the foundation of a successful service since 1975, and that there would be no need to work in the world's many projects, especially in the defence industry, in which our young people's lives were named for the end of their lives, with a comprehensive will to be done by a comprehensive will, and that will be done in a comprehensively, and that there would be no need to be no need to work in a public body of that would be done in the future. As the National Movement Party, he demands that this proposal be taken into consideration, once again a mercy from God to our young people who have lost their lives, and my condolences to their families, whether late or not to renew their pain, but I would like to express that we share their pain. I'm waiting for your support, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0093par0030	Thank you, Mr. Light. İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0094par0034	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the deaths of engineers in ASELSAN. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, in the 1970s, the Black, Navy and Air Force strengthening foundations were established by our people's donations to meet Turkey's defence needs with national possibilities. ASELSAN began its work in 1975 as a pioneer of the Foundation for Fortification of the Land Forces. Today, ASELSAN is an association with the Foundation for Strengthening Turkish Armed Forces. In the field of electronic technology, it has been the world's 74th-largest defense firm in 2013, continuing its climb to become one of the world's top 50 defence industries in 2013, providing unique products and systems to all its customers, which are actively using national resources, aimed beyond expectations. Dear lawmakers, the written and visual media reports say there have been many suicides. The sensitivity of our people and press organizations regarding the deaths of the ASELSAN employees, the leading organisation in Turkey's defence industry, must be perfectly natural. However, the fact that not all such reports are healthy should not be ignored at the time that some of the workers are not employees of this organization at the time of their deaths. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you all the accurate information I have about the deaths of engineers. The first is the deceased Hussain Prime Minister. Deceased August 4, 2006. The judicial process of our brother Huseyin is still under way, and it has not been concluded. The second is that evolution is the Yank. Deceased January 24, 2007. The forensic process resulted in a suicide detection. Third, Virtue Uður. Deceased January 25, 2015. This one's fresh, and the forensic process is still under way. In addition, an ASELSAN employee named Hakan Orphan died on 26 January 2013 in a car accident on his own road to Ankara. Dear lawmakers, the names and dates of the people referred to as ASELSAN employees are as follows, although there are no ASELSAN employees in the press outside the ASELSAN employees whose names I have just shared with you: First: Halim Ünsal Ünal, deceased January 16, 2007. From ASELSAN, this brother was separated about seven years ago on 31 December 2000. Second: Burhanettin Volcano, deceased October 7, 2007. This brother was also an employee of the Biometri-CS company, provided by ASELSAN (AsELSAN) on July 15, 2007. Third: Victory Oluk, deceased May 5, 2008. About ten months ago, on 16 July 2007, he resigned from ASELSAN to serve as a soldier. Dear lawmakers, with more than a billion dollars in turnovers and over 5,000 employees, all devices and systems are developed and produced by professional teams in ASELSAN, the largest defence industry in Turkey. So it's impossible to connect the production here to the one person. The detailed documentation of all processes is carried out by ASELSAN, and the scenarios of a project by one person are unrealistic, as it appears in some news. I'll leave it up to the General Assembly to determine whether or not the council will open its investigation. If you'll excuse me, in the last few minutes, in the last nine days, I'm afraid I'd like to split up three F-4 planes and six pilots into accidents we've lost. At the beginning of my words, I ask for God's mercy on our F-4 pilots. Our bilateral arms in Malatya are the type RF-4 of our F-4 aircraft. The fall in the lconium is one of the type of hunting bombers that we call F4 2020. Dear MPs, our Air Force Command's combat force is created by our F-16 aircraft and F-4 aircraft. Part-life modernizations of our F-16 aircraft have been completed, the MLU programs we call "Mid-Life Upgrade" have been completed. We coordinated with the United States of America. From our F-4 aircraft, 54 have been upgraded by Israel's IAI company. It's called the F-4 2020. The meaning of 2020 is that we will use these planes by at least 2020. In this modernization, we paid Israel $18.3 million for each F-4 aircraft after February 28th. I mean, we almost paid for a new plane. Our other F-4 planes are our TAI firm and 1. Our Air Supply Care Central Command, with the experience of our engineers from the Israeli modernization, we've made modernization of these ourselves. The maintenance of our jet aircraft is done in our Air Force by NATO standards and above NATO standards. We can all be sure of that, we have no problems, thank God. The F-4 is one of the two combat planes we're honored to fly. It's definitely not a floating coffin the way it appears in the press. Each of our planes is taken care of on time, replaced by flight time, replaced by the part that needs to be replaced, and then the plane returns to zero, the first moment, and it's renovated. In 2006, Turkey joined the JSF Program -- our Air Force Command -- with the approval of the General Staff and our government. The JSF Program is a consortium founded by developed Western countries such as the United States, Australia, Canada, Britain, the Netherlands. We entered this program from the beginning. Our goal was to modernise our F-4 planes and fleets, which would be the year 2020 and then complete its life, with the F-35 aircraft we call the JSF. Here -- the accounts of the Air Force -- were 120 planes needed, but for now, the Chief of Staff of General Staff of the period, 100 planes would be an option, and 20 planes would be an option. When recommended to the government, the decision of the Council of Ministers came out in the form of 100 aircraft. We're part of the program now. Planes are being built from scratch. You've heard from the press, there's three types of F-35 planes: those who land on the runway like a classic regular plane; those who can take off at a short distance using an aircraft; those who can take off at a short distance; and those who can land at a steep landing like British soldiers. We chose the type to use the runways as needed by the Air Force. Our project is now running, and in exchange for this project, our TAI and TEI companies have received about 50% of the cost of the project. This project is one of our most beautiful projects. Hopefully, the Turkish Air Force's strike force will be made up of F-35 and F-16 planes as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish Air Force is indeed a force above NATO standards. When I was an officer of operations in the 141st Fleet, Air Force Commander Akin Özturk was our Fleet Commander, and we received a degree from NATO inspection, which means that both our pilots and our weapons systems are really beautiful. From the end of the 90s, we can refuel our planes in the air with KC-135 aircraft. We're one of 8-10 countries in the world that can fuel their planes in the air, fuel their pilots in the air. From strategic transport planes like the A400M -- the first plane -- our Air Force took it a few months ago -- hopefully, we'll have 10 planes. The Turkish Air Force, Turkey, is one of five countries in the world with AWACS, the United States, Russia, Britain, France, Turkey. And after us, Australia, hopefully, flies in the air to get the radar AWACS. Dear lawmakers, our General Staff and the government look at the Turkish Air Force like the apple of their eye. And as I put an end to my words, the engineer, who passed away, begs God's mercy upon our brothers, and upon his relatives, and upon his fellow workers, patience, and patience, and respect unto all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0095par0060	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0096par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, as I was listening to Mr. Smurf, he said a few words that sounded very interesting, which means we're honored to fly... so there are those who fall, so there's a problem. I mean, planes have to fly, so when they fall, it's a problem. Second, you can't brag about buying a plane. So you're gonna make it in this country, and then you're gonna be honored. It's not really an honor to buy a plane.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0097par0067	We've started producing.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0096par0068	Starting to produce this is another subject, friends, look, we'll have all kinds of discussions about what you put on your head here, where you produce everything. What's national and what's not, a national tank, national software, a national train, a national plane, a national satellite... Why are you fooling people like this? You do it in China, you throw it into space, you live on it. What kind of a thing is that? That doesn't make sense. But here's the thing: Now, all of these, all of these deaths, in fact, have a common feature, of course, of course, that they have a very superior success on the issues that concern the defence industry there, and that's where the problem lies. What have you done to this day about Turkey's unsolved crimes, and what have you shed light on? Regarding the deaths of two friends in particular, see, in the 2008-2009 report, this is based on Ergenekon. Now there's no Ergenekon. Look, there's a question mark, there's a report. There's no Ergenekon left. Zechariah was a national hero -- he's a national -- now he's a nationalist, he's gone, he's come. Now, I'll tell you in particular, the suspects about the death of those two friends that day are in there. Camera footage from the same day, four days ago is gone. That's all the D.A. Says himself. The Prime Minister's Board puts it in front of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, one report, and eventually they say that Ergenekon is involved. Now, look, let's go back to this: Turkey has a dark history, and in this dark history there are very serious unsolveds. Let's look at our very close history. I mean, I don't understand when you're talking in the squares and you're talking about the unknown, whether you're a leftist or a nationalist or a citizen in the Southeast, I don't understand. But none of them have been enlightened. I'll tell you some of the examples because they're recent history. About October 6th, 7th, who killed him, no one knows. Here's the Sivas stuff. Before this, you attached them to Ergenekon, and he collapsed. Now what? It's important to investigate them. It doesn't make sense to come here and create a defense mechanism, it doesn't solve anything. Now, what I'm going to say about the same thing is, we're not actually saying this, or our friends, Mr. Alim, are not saying this, and Europe is saying this, and America is really saying this. You know why he's saying it? For example, after relations with Iran become hot, a report comes out from the United States, and they add the ASELSAN deaths in Turkey to this report, saying that the deaths related to nuclear research in Iran appear to be similar to those in Turkey. I don't know if it's right or wrong, but this report is present, so there is this report. This report was issued in Spain. Besides, Transparency filed some reports, that's what it's about. In the United States, even though he was so hostile with Iran, he claims that there was an unsolved crime in the deaths of the dead scientists who were involved in the nuclear work in Iran. Look, I'm telling you, even though America is hostile, it's all about people who died in Iran in nuclear research, death, it's all about questions. In addition, you're looking at these cases. Four prosecutors have changed, five prosecutors have gone to the 5th, and the 5th prosecutor has some files. Well, come on, look into it, see what's going on here that's going to prevent you from investigating or researching it, so it's really hard to understand. All when you look at people who work in the defense industry. Now, when it comes to national issues, when it comes to technology-related issues, we say that that's where our friends here come from, why they're so rare. In that educational system, all of these friends who had been raised in previous knitting training were subject to the same training, whether in ODTU, or elsewhere, they were subject to the same training. In fact, most of the world's leading countries knew what it was to produce knowledge-how for the future. Especially the deaths of those two friends who were said to be missing... and the Prime Minister's Investigation Board hasn't been able to determine whether this was a suicide or a conspiracy or an unsolved murder. And since he couldn't put it in, he said it had to be investigated. Everyone knew the foundation was about the defense industry. And I have the names of these friends that I have, and I have the report here: the Hussain Chief Knower, the Dynasty of Evolution. There's no CCTV footage of them being killed, all destroyed. To investigate why it was destroyed, perhaps as you say, maybe it was suicide. Of course, most of them were also treated psychologically. But why did they see it? There were some prints from four months ago, there were very serious pressures, especially pressure outside the agency to leave their duties, and these were written in that report, my friends. Now, while we're looking into all this stuff, let's see if we're raising guys like this or not. I'd like to point out that if you look at the picture where these kids are growing up, at least there's a dark picture of our future children in front of us. That's what I'm going to say: when you give 20 points to all the schools that are going to be a scientific center for national education and all the schools that are going to raise these kids, I'm going to give you 20 points for that, but it's not the same thing. Now, you're making decisions in terms of an education that goes away from science. These kids didn't grow up there. I mean, now, I don't see anything as strange in this country as bringing and putting up with this meeting. Hey, aren't there enough mosques out there, guys? Don't you guys have enough places to worship? He's being brought to the Imam-hakim thing, brought to the shrine, brought to him, brought to him, brought to this. Well, isn't it a shame about the children of this country, that there's no such thing, no freedom in the places of worship? Well, then, why is it in the rating system that you bring from the current part of National Education to special schools that you put in a prayer prayer, a rosary, I give you 20 points as a place of worship, and if you set up a lab, I give you 20 points? Is that something that contradicts each other? No, it's not, but you're moving society towards a tactic that's being pushed this way or driven into perception. Look, the science classes in Turkey are all elective, so let's be very careful about them, we've explained that here. Look, the ratio of children with mathematical intelligence is getting lower and lower in this country, and we've told this before. Now, for example, anywhere in the world, you're talking about China, you're talking about it, kids like that aren't going to grow up anymore - science, science, mathematics. Because I've told you 15-year-olds -- success rate, the rate that they're going to be very successful is 1% for Turkey, that's 1%. In Europe, it became 32 percent in Scandinavian countries. In China, Shanghai, 20 percent. We buy technology, or we fly planes, we brag about it. Yeah, we'll brag, of course, there's no problem here, but if there's any serious negligence here, it's gonna have to be investigated. How do these planes go down like this? It needs to be investigated, so what's the big deal? Is that something to brag about? The planes are flying, they're flying. Okay, good. We've got AWACS. It's good. I don't understand them, so I don't know how many planes were bought from. It's not something to brag about. It's got to fly anyway. You're standing in such a conjunctive that if your defense mechanisms aren't strong, then there's nothing you can do. But let me tell you this: Now that you have spoken of Israel, in our defense industry, all of the software is dependent on the outside. Well, I'm asking, do we have a ground station, a tracking station? No, we don't have it. I mean, do we have a ground station in disaster time, a place like this? No, I don't. Who do we belong to? Before you said, I admit, all drones were dependent on Israel, still dependent on Israel, if not dependent on it, are indirectly dependent. If you bring it up as a matter of pride, you will bring it to the point where there is no need to raise people. Let's not set up the defense here, I don't think these children's lives have gone to waste, so I'd like to investigate them, whether it's suicide or not, and I'd like to give you all a little respect.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0098par0081	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Mr. Ramazan Can is a member of the Kırıkkale MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0099par0085	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've made a commitment to an MHP group proposal. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, ASELSAN, are a local defence organization founded in 1975 to provide military communications and electronic equipment for the Turkish Armed Forces. ASELSAN, in recent years, we have had an organization that has been proud of the local defence industry. In particular, ASELSAN has been a valuable national institution of Turkish defence industry exporting to various countries around the world in recent years. At the same time, it is a strategic industrial institution for Turkey, and its vital importance in terms of RD is also done. Mr. President, as noted in the group's proposal, is it because recently in ASELSAN, as the public has seen, the cause of the suspicious deaths of working engineers is a lack of information in the suicide-accident dilemma, or is it because there really is a mystery to the public that these deaths have been considered suspicious? The deaths of successful engineers who have recently made ASELSAN to compete with the world's weapons and defence industry and saved the defence sector from external dependency, have increased questions, doubts, etc. because there are no public information pollution or healthy, satisfying explanations. As a matter of fact, the deaths may be normal, there may be suspicious deaths, but the real thing is that there's obviously some information pollution here. I don't think this information has been shared with the relatives of the deceased or with the public. As a congressman, I think I have these doubts before I investigate this matter as a person. Especially when ASELSAN (ASELSAN) has recently come to a level of competition with the world's weapons industry, the deaths of successful engineers have not been clear enough in the accident-suicide dilemma. As a result, the investigation continues. If there's a mystery here, it has to be opened. As a result, reports, forensic reports, depositions, all of this must be re-examined. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will be given the lists to the Election Board on April 7th, so it doesn't really and legally seem possible that we will not be able to give enough time to the commission as a result of our investigation and investigation. Therefore, I accept that it is necessary to investigate. I think he should consider it in the 25th Legislature, and I offer the group's proposal to the General Assembly, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0100par0091	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0101par0094	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit05spe0100par0095	We've got a roll call. Mr. Bal, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Günal, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Oral, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Alan, Mr. Irbeç, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Gök, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Turkoğlu, Mr. Turkoğlu, Mr. Oral, Mr. Oral, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Alan, Mr. Irbeçic, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Halaman, Mr. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0100par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 73th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the nationalist movement group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups during the Council's meeting on Tuesday (June 10/3/2015), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker and 19 MPs have been issued a parliamentary research motion (961 rows) on 13/6/2013 to determine "the measures to be taken by investigating the interest lobby of representatives of the government's representatives." lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the 10/3/2015-day jointly, and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Mehmet Candy is a member of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0102par0025	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to a motion to open a parliamentary investigation in order to investigate the claims of government representatives against the interest lobby and determine the measures that need to be taken. On this occasion, I salute you and all our citizens who are watching us on their screens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a strange way of ruling. If there's success in any field, it's our success. He says, if there's a failure, if there's a bad result, it connects it to a lobby he's fabricating. Look, up until today, you've created over 20 lobbying lobbys from the potato lobby to the bean lobby, from the preacher lobby to the robot lobby. Who are these lobbyists made up of, what methods do they follow? Including you, unfortunately, no one knows. And you have no problem investigating them. And one of the most interesting lobbys you've created is the interest lobby. When the economy isn't going well, your staff comes out and explains that the interest lobby is responsible. With this claim, a public debate on whether the interest lobby is banks, companies, foreign or domestic savings owners is starting to occupy the agenda. Computations are being made on how much profit the lobby has gained from Turkey. These few days of debates don't come to a conclusion, and they're being put on the shelf until a new interest lobby claim comes up. Those who raise claims of interest lobbying are withdrawing. I'm afraid they're not taking any steps to investigate this lobby, uncover their activities. Why aren't these steps taken? The government has jurisdiction, the police force, all kinds of technological possibilities. It's very easy for you to prove these allegations, to identify the members of the lobby you're talking about, to reveal the amount of their actions, their earnings, but for some reason, you don't. Dear friends, there's a dual attitude of government representatives here. On the one hand, they say they have Turkey as a safe port, a sound, strong economy, a country the world prefers; on the other hand, they imply that Turkey does not have as strong an economy as it is mentioned, it has a fragile structure, which can easily be manipulated even in small events. So they create a public confusion. They also leave a serious question mark in the public's head on allegations of interest lobbying, which they've come up with, but then they've made no attempt to bring results. The citizen says: If there is such a lobby, why isn't there members of this lobby, why aren't they being investigated? Let's resolve this confusion you've created in the citizen with this motion. Look, dear friends, after the 17th December bribery and corruption operation, the Home Secretary gave an interview to the Minister of the Interior TRT. In that interview, there was systematic corruption, reminding of corruption in the 90s. 40 or 50 billion dollars, the banks are bankrupt. We've been through such a miserable situation. The cost of the last operation is 104 billion dollars. How is it that the people who set this up got dollars, and now who's got the dollars? I'm not just saying that in doubt. What a betrayal that is, it will come out. This information is being leaked beforehand, and who used their expressions? I note that the Home Secretary states that he did not say these words on suspicion, which means that he has certain, clear information and documents. After these statements, I gave them a motion to ask. Date: January 8, 2014. On December 17th, who, at what date, was the corruption operation leaked to? On what dates did the alleged news of the December 17th operation take currency? I asked him, "What kind of transaction has been made so far about people who have already leaked the information about the December 17th operation to someone who have acquired money for exchange? " It's March 10, 2015, 14 months later, my motion has not been answered. Turns out that's one of the populist phrases, unfortunately. Dear lawmakers, there's been an unstoppable climb in the dollar lately. This climb has serious bills in the citizen's budget, industry, businessman, business. So why is the dollar going up? There are several reasons for increased currency in a normal, well-run country. What's all this? As the economy grows, production increases, so the demand for imports increases, the need for foreign currency increases, and exchange increases. Because the companies' demand for foreign currency increases, the currency increases. That's not the scenario we're experiencing in the exchange rate. Okay, let's talk about another reason. When inflation is out of control, when money loses value, when a citizen turns to good money, the exchange increases. That's not what we're going through. If the economy isn't growing, then why is the dollar climbing? Because the palace dweller's arrogance is growing, his ego is growing. If inflation isn't out of control, why is the dollar going up? Because unfortunately, the palace dweller is getting out of control. Look, dear friends, the President is coming out, charging the President of the Central Bank. I'm pointing out that he's not criticizing, he's making accusations, the dollar's going up. The president spoke six or seven times, each time the dollar went up, lost value against the dollar. Why do they insist on talking behind closed doors in front of microphones and cameras? Why are these explanations being made, even though it is known that the dollar will rise after these talks? Who's getting paid to raise dollars all the time? Who buys dollars before these conversations, and then who sells dollars? We're not sure about the others, but there's definitely a lobby here. Who does this lobby work for, who does the president's speech make rich? The answers to these questions need to be found immediately. Another thing to be clear about: look, there's been an extraordinary increase in the Central Bank's net error and lack of information before each election at its source of uncertain foreign currency. Now let me give you one by one, dear friends. There were local elections in 2009, a $4.9 billion supply of money entered Turkey. There was a Constitution referendum in 2010, and again $5.6 billion, unaccounted for, entered Turkey. The anonymous exchange entry in the June 2011 elections is $12.2 billion. Last year, when the presidential elections took place, $8.8 billion was an unaccounted-for cash entry. In 2012 and 2013, there was no election, and there was almost no source of foreign currency entry. Now we're back in the general elections. The total supply of uncertain entries during the first quarter of 2015 increased to $6 billion,635 million, friends. When we combine all of this, are the explanations that cause the fight to rise so that those who bring in money from abroad will gain more? The questions are being raised. Dear friends, during the travel events, there is an interest lobby in this country, but it can't be discovered. Everyone's talking, nobody knows what this interest lobby is doing, who it is. In the past three months, the currency has earned 12 per cent against Turkish lira in Turkey, and the money from the industrialist's pocket is up to 100 billion euros. So, what do you do about it? Nothing's being done. Mr. Secretary of the Interior -- in the past term -- we know who's been buying and selling foreign currency, who's been getting a runt out of it. But he couldn't find it. Either he doesn't have enough intelligence officers, police, or officers, or he doesn't trust judges, he hasn't uncovered them, or he's got another side, he knows who cashed in his pocket, but he doesn't find out who they are. Dear lawmakers, if you are sincere, a commission can be set up, and this commission will reveal whether it is parallel, triangle, rectangle, lobby, or lobby. We're waiting for your support, and we believe we can solve this problem in a month. My respects to all of you. I'm waiting for your support. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0103par0045	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Against the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, please come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0104par0047	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. In fact, I have made a promise to talk about... the decree against the Civil Code, which is neither against nor against what is against it. Because I thought everyone in this House should want it. Yeah, there's an interest lobby, who the hell is that? Friends, aren't you curious? The interest lobby on the trip, the interest lobby on December 17th-25th, the financial crisis in the world, the interest lobby. That wasn't enough, it was the interest lobby and the exchange lobby. Who is this exchange lobby? This is the President, waving a finger at the Central Bank, the exchanges are popping up, folks. Yeah, can you imagine if such a system exists in the world? The entire Central Bank, Mr. Babacan, the economy ministers, they've all been briefing at the palace for days. Who? To the President. You're doing it in the wrong place, friends, and you're going to come and give it to the MPs in the People's Assembly, the People's Assembly, and you're going to look for the solution here, here. Who's the exchange lobby? The currency lobby, the interest lobby, the dollar, the hot money, what countries do they like in liquidity? It's very simple, they take the money from the Fed or the World Bank, the European Central Bank as a loan at 1 per cent, they come, there's 7.5 per cent interest in Turkey, whether it pays taxes or pays taxes, or whatever it does, it makes a lot of profits when it's invested in Turkey, I don't know. For him, at this stage, Turkey calls 131 billion dollars -- they call it the interest lobby -- 62 billion in stocks, in banks; 52 billion in treasury bonds, friends in treasury bonds, 17 billion in official treasury bonds -- is on the market. So, when this money was lying here recently, there was a shake, and there was a hot money escape in Turkey, were you aware? The IMF has declared three banks a risky bank, and the Finance Minister has mentioned the risk of three banks of money. What happened after that? A legend came out, folks, we lent IMF $5 billion, we paid off all our debts. Turkey is now on loan at the IMF gate. Take this seriously, this is not a joke, guys. In this economic fluctuation, if you look for the effect of this in terms of not-just-dollar areas, you'll see: 2023 is not your power that claims that your aims will be $25,000 per person? $25,000. Now, when the dollar goes up to $2.62, do you know how much it's now down to involuntary gross per person as of 2015? 8.763. So in 2013, $10,753 per person dropped $2,000 on the way to 2015. He's poor, citizen, out of his pocket $2,000, out of his pocket, out of his pocket, out of his purchase power, out of his minimum wage. And the internal plus the external debt is $600 billion, friends. Internal debt is 200 billion, foreign debt is $400 billion. These numbers are very serious numbers, my friends. We're talking about a Turkey where imports get in the way of exports. Look, the G-20 summit is meeting in Turkey. Turkey is the most fragile country of the five. I mean, we don't get political pleasure here, we don't enjoy the decline of the Turkish economy, but what if the President's job is not to fight the Central Bank every day, if he's independent, friends, why does he fight? Why does he threaten the president of the Federal Reserve every day and fight every day? Tell me, isn't the president the head of the administration? Go, my brother, and sit in the house, and deal with the unity of the land, and with its integrity, and with its representation, and with its ambassadors, and go abroad, and travel. So what are you doing now? You're going to open the square. After the presidential election, you are now involved in the 2015 general elections. The package is being discussed, and here you are blending into the package. Now, there's something wrong here, folks: if there's a government, doesn't this government have a Prime Minister? I do. It's Davutoglu, isn't it? Davutoglu. Does this government's ministers answer to the Prime Minister or to the President? If you take it according to the Constitution and the law -- according to Parliament -- the President of the Central Bank or the Minister of Economics, or the Minister of Economics or Minister of Co-ordination, or the Minister of Co-ordination, Murtaza. The administration is a constitutional institution. The head of the executive is representation. The head of the delegation doesn't deal with the economy of that country because the President is irresponsible. He needs 417 MPs to vote for him here to go for treason, but we can ask the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Development, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Economics, the Minister of Co-ordination -- each of the 3 chapters in charge of co-ordination -- according to this Constitution. As a matter of fact, the People's Democratic Party has given the Parliament a gene for every three ministers, and we will see each other this week. Why? The government is responsible. If the President is responsible, let's ask him if he's responsible, but not the President, according to the Constitution. The constitutional control mechanisms are clear -- parliamentary research, general discussion, general discussion, and the responsibility of politics -- for the Supreme Court -- investigation, but the concept of treason includes one penny, one stone, one piece of land, everything. If interest is lost in a lobby, the account is asked, if there's a dollar lobby, and he gets paid because the money that goes into this treasure is not the President's or the Central Bank's. It is the duty of the opposition to ask us here today to account for the money that came into the treasury with the taxes of that citizen. Now, we want to make it very clear from here. Guys, what if the hot money, the liquidity, goes away in this insecurity environment, what are you going to do as a government? I mean, if this money goes, if you brief the briefing on the briefing, the interest lobby goes into the political market. Notice, the political market is so affected that the 2015 elections are three months away. This is the interest lobby; this is the exchange lobby next to the interest lobby. We've got till April 5th in this House, so let's set up a quick commission, and we'll get these guys, and we'll get you out of here. What more do you want from God? So much good from the opposition, so much good from now on. If you want to remove this interest lobby, you will raise your hands and say yes, my friends. O power, say yes for the interest lobby, you have no choice. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0105par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. I'll take a break after Mr. Günal. I'll have Mr. Sadik Badak ready in an hour. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, let's just say this is the warm discussion of the last days, the valuable speakers have mentioned it here, but we've warned it many times. In fact, you and the Turkish people know exactly what happened. Obviously, we understand clearly that this is no longer a mistake, and that Mr. Erdogan said it on purpose, repeatedly. Because we didn't just say that today. Most of the time, our friends, AKP's co-chairs, go out and say what we're talking about here, but for some reason, they never look at what we're saying about these things, and there's still an interest lobby debate going on. Look, yeah, so from here on out, we're gonna have to tell you. We've written it many times, we've said it many times, we've said it in budget talks; we're still talking about an interest lobby; even beyond the interest lobby, there are accusations of treason. Obviously, I showed you from here, with A3 papers, before the talk of interest lobby was said by the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Erdogan, after the Trip events, in fact, for the first time in the morning paper, where the Prime Minister's son-in-law was present in October 2012 and wrote often. The people described as interest lobby were Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who was declared a traitor today by Mr. President, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek and Central Bank President Erdem Başçıçı. I've presented his paintings to you over and over again to see if the interest lobby is inside or outside. There's still no way to get there. As he gets stuck, Mr. Erdogan still doesn't give up, unfortunately, to turn around and say old things like food rice. So, look, I'll repeat what he said in a brief sentence, he says: "When they come across us, Mr. Erdogan, the prime minister of the era -- we're five times as rich in your time. These are the people who started dealing with us these days. I repeat, in whose time did they become five times richer? He's in charge of the Justice and Development Party. Well, who gave them the right? The AKP has issued governments, especially Mr. Erdogan. Now there's something strange. After that, get yourself back together against the interest lobby, we've been very patient. It's just that it's a bank, three banks, all of whom I'm saying the same thing about. You, who have started such a battle against us, will pay a heavy price for it. When did he say that? In the middle of 2013. So, what year is it? The beginning of 2015. Well, for the past two years, they've only been going around declaring Ali Babacan and Erdem Başçiçı, and at times Mehmet Simsek, an interest lobby, and betraying your village. I don't understand what was done beyond saying. Obviously, the newspaper report I just told you about here, a week and ten days after that, the Prime Minister's deputy was given a picture of him again, and the Frenci continue to brake. Now, you're going around again, covering up the failures in this economy, and on the one hand, you're putting up these arguments again so that someone can make money on every rise. Dear friends, they always say the odds. Sir, he says that our interest costs are as big as the budget. Well, have you looked at the exact amount of interest you've paid? How much do we spend on interest every year? That's close to $620 billion, the interest you paid in 12 years. We pay $50,55 billion interest every year.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0107par0069	So, what's it down to in 12 years? Isn't that from 44% to 13 percent interest money?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0070	If you convert it into dollars, if you convert it with the average dry of that year, you paid $400 billion to the interest lobby in 13 years. So we didn't pay.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0107par0071	Didn't it fall from 44% to 13 percent?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0072	Look, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you've literally borrowed...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0107par0073	Look, didn't the share from the budget to the interest drop from 44% to 13%?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0074	Wait, I'll tell you more. If you have any objections, now you speak up against the group proposal, and you say so.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0108par0075	They're moving the goods, the goods!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0076	Look, every year around $50 billion, 55-54 -- this year's departures are 53 -- interest is being paid, interest! Now, you're going to watch this as it's paid, you're not going to take the necessary structural measures, you're going to keep negotiating these structural measures while we're shouting, you're going to keep negotiating with the separatist element, you're going to stall us here for a month and a month and a half, you're going to take other laws here for three months, you're going to take structural measures, you're going to stop your employment incentives, you're not going to subtract the Tourism Act for ten years, and you're not going to get a reading of them when we're calling you a narrow sector sectoral incentive, you're going to bring them down to construction contractors, construction contractors, you're going to bring them down from one side, and then you're going to talk about this? Then you're going to make two ministers, one Deputy Prime Minister, and the president of the Central Bank a scapegoat. Who appointed them?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0109par0078	Let him have it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0079	I'm asking you over and over again, you make the law here, you make all the antidemocratic laws here, and I'm telling you, where are those friends of ours, you gave them a new bag, a clause, and why don't you add the 4th article of the Central Bank Law to it? Change it, change the price stability, it's over, it can't do anything. Write there, as the president of the Central Bank does what the government commands, and it will be finished. Why are you talking about your stomach as an interest lobby? Every time he talks, Recep Tayyip Erdogan exchanges come out. Who's winning, who's buying, who's selling, you know?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0109par0080	Who's got those coins?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0081	We know what's going on, we know who's getting foreign currency. Where is it, we've never heard of it, what happened to these investigations? You can't do it, you can't do it, you and Prime Minister Davutoglu went with Mr. Babacan and Lightning last week and started begging them again.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0110par0082	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0083	Those of you who have given you the memordum in your organization... you can't do anything to the bosses of Citibank, whose three billion you've wiped out in a month before the government is formed... because you've surrendered in the first place.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0111par0084	What did they erase, what did they erase?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0106par0085	If you'd brought these laws, if you'd taken structural measures on economic, social issues that we've been telling you so far, we've said so many times here that we have a constructive, guiding understanding of MHP, come, let's make the laws that should be passed economically. What did you do? Let's keep it round, keep it round, protect the others, reverse the 17-25, nothing else. Well, if that happens now, the interest won't go down. And don't look for responsibility because it's not falling. The main responsibility is the government, which allows these policies, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is in charge of two or three periods. Mr. President, it's as if he's been looking for a scapegoat in his own time, but the economy has screwed it up, and because of the crisis, there's something in the world now, it's like they're ruining what I do. Not like this. These ministers aren't the new ministers, they're his signature on the appointment of ministers, and he hasn't said that about the interest lobby today, he's been saying that for years. If you know, why did you appoint him? I mean, it has a signature; it has a signature on it when it comes as president, and when it presents it to Mr. Gül. Ali Babacan was not the new Minister, Mehmet Simsek was not the new Minister, and Erdem Başççı was not the new President of the Central Bank, friends, he had been vice president before. It came during your time. While I was working at the Central Bank, there was no one there called the Head of Erdem, who was teaching at Bilkent. Yeah, you brought it, you put it there. If they exist, if they are traitors, then, brother, investigate, depose them for the sake of the investigation. Find out where, who's doing what, who's manipulating what, whether he's buying it in the stock market or selling it, who's selling it? In the last three months, before and after Mr. Erdogan's speech, who received foreign currency from the Central Bank through the banking system, and who sold it? Who got paper on the Treasury tenders? You've got the SEC, you've got the BDK, you've got all the agencies. Look into it, and we'll find out. If there is one, we're willing to sign and raise our hand, whatever needs to be done, whatever needs to be done. Otherwise, he says we should invent an interest lobby and stop looking for scapegoats, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0112par0087	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0113par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0112par0089	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0113par0090	Mr. President, the speaker has used some serious empirical statements about our founder's president. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0112par0091	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0114par0093	It's not an imam, it's a direct quote.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0115par0094	He's not the founding president, he's the President, he's the Prime Minister of the period.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0097	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are here in the first place to imply that the President of the Republic of Turkey is making a statement about a foreign exchange or something like that. I strongly deny it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0115par0098	Let's find out who took it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0099	Look, when we came to power, 44% of the budget was earmarked for interest, 44% of the budget was going to interest.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0115par0100	How much was it?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0117par0101	It depends on the growth.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0102	In 12 years, we reduced it to 13 per cent, and in the pocket of the state of the Republic of Turkey, there was over 1 quadrillion dollars left in the treasury.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0115par0103	That's not what happened. I told you the numbers, 620 billion dollars gone.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0104	And behold, in this land, before the events of the trip, the interest was down to 4,64, and after the travel, the interest was over ten.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0118par0106	What does this have to do with the trip? Is there a trip now?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0107	And from that day until today, we have suffered back to 7 percent of interest in a stable way. Now, with our interest perspective and our relationship with interest in our economic policies, there's no basis for what the minister said about our President and our economic policies. In addition, our President was not a traitor to Ali Babacan and the Chief Minister of Virtue.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0119par0109	What country do you live in? They're traitors, traitors, he says.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0116par0110	On the contrary, is there a structure in the bureaucracy that does not show proper sensitivity? It is necessary to go on. He used his expression. Therefore, I find the words of the Hatiman extremely unfortunate in this sense, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit06spe0120par0112	Thank you. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0120par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 7rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Now, it's up to Antalya MP to counter the proposal...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0121par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0122par0008	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0120par0009	Hold on a second, let's get him talking. Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0123par0011	Before closing, Mr. Mahir Ünal accused us of lying and that what we said about the President was not true.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0120par0012	He didn't tell you, but he said it wasn't true about Mr. Günal, and he didn't say it was a liar.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0123par0013	He said "Habits," sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0120par0014	Wait a second. Now I can't promise you that I won't pick on you according to the Civil Code. Both of you go into the system, and I can promise you in accordance with Article 60. In his view, at least let's do things properly by applying the Civil Code. In the meantime, I'll call Mr. Badak. And then it's over, together... Yeah, is he here?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0124par0018	Here, here.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0120par0019	Okay. Yes, Mr. Badak, please.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0022	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath against the group proposal given by the Republican People's Party. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the group's proposal calls for the interest lobby to be researched and researched, as if our valued friends, lawmakers, as if they did not know, and as if they were found by members of the EC PARTY. It's a beautiful expression in our literature. The CHP's proposal can also be seen as in a sense subjective. I'd still like to sum up the interest lobby that harms countries, communities, in short. First of all, I'd like to stress the importance of the matter. It's called an interest lobby for people who have made loans, loans, trade activities. That's an economic definition. There are lobbyists in real sectors, such as the oil lobby, the steel lobby, the medicine lobby, which monitors business and sectoral activities, trying to increase their profits. For example, if we want to give an example from the medicine lobby, there's an antibiotic called the Augustin, which I use in winter when I have the flu.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0126par0025	He did commercials, commercials. He planted a product.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0127par0026	Don't advertise.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0027	In the 1990s, even in 2003, 2004, it was $38 in today's figure, and then with the efforts and efforts of our governments, the activities of this drug lobby were blocked in Turkey, now Augmentin 9 lira. That's a good example of preventing the activities of the lobby. We have largely blocked the activities of the interest lobby in our country.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0128par0028	I don't know how many years that drug went up.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0029	Now, there are lobbyists in the financial sector working to increase their profits. The main function of the financial sector is to pay the real sector, the production sector, the factories at a price of norm and standards of the market, and to pay for a rent. We need to separate the interest lobby that we're talking about today from the businesses that lend loans to the production industry. We know that these work in different environments and parameters. After the 18th century, some of the financiers began to give money to governments, treasures, and especially to finance wars. These are the ones who lent money to the Ottoman state in the 1800s. They do not want good governance and stability in countries, and chaos in countries increases their interest revenues. In the 1990s, the budget problems of political and economic instability in our country led to the rise of state bond interest to 150 per cent, bringing huge profits to the interest lobby. In contrast, after 2002, the political and economic stability in our country did not enjoy the decline of state bonds to 4.61, of course, in 2013. In the economic and financial system established by industrialised countries over the past two centuries, efforts to get more revenue from the resources given to developing states by international financial environments have at times reached the level that block investments. In the last fifty-six years, it's been integrated into the world's economic system like compounded containers, and as we've seen in some developing countries, in June 2013, we've all witnessed the manipulation of travel events and international interest lobby to increase its profits in cooperation with international media.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0129par0031	Yeah, you've made quite a spectacle of it. That's the real deal.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0032	That is: On 31 May 2013, the risk score, which was 1.31 in our country's international financial circles, rose to 1.84 on June 11, ten days later. Thus, our nuclear plants, third bridge, third airport, Canal Istanbul; fast train, Marmaray, a large three-story Istanbul tunnel, the planned dams, irrigation systems, highways, fast trains, the interest of our basic investments of about 140 billion dollars has increased by 45 per cent in about ten days.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0130par0033	That's what made society nervous. Whoever makes society nervous has done so.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0034	In recent weeks, some circles have seen efforts to create similar confusions.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0130par0035	Whoever had a meeting at the airport, whoever was roaring in there, then he's in the interest lobby.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0036	I'd just like to remind these friends that in this short time,
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0131par0037	If you're not in power, seize this lobby, bring it out.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0038	In 2002, 85.7% of all tax revenues went to interest payments. The state was paying interest for 85 per cent of its income.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0132par0039	You've paid $600 billion interest in 12 years, $600 billion in 12 years.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0040	Today, that rate has dropped to 14.3 per cent.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0132par0042	Look at the numbers, $600 billion in 12 years.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0043	Dear lawmakers, there are about three weeks before the 24th term legislature is over. This, of course, is a serious subject, which is always useful for research. Admiration for the opening of a parliamentary investigation is our great House. What do you think, what are you going to do?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0133par0045	Support the proposal, let's get the interest lobby.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0125par0046	However, I would like to point out that I don't agree with the fact that today's work should be put on a parliamentary investigation, through the Plan and Budget Commission's agenda, through other commissions, through the bag of legislation waiting to be discussed in our parliament, and through new regulations that concern our people, such as the new staffing of the Plan and Budget Commission, again, on Thursday. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0049	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0135par0050	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0136par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0052	Now that's a good thing.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0136par0053	Now it's in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0054	Yes, everything is in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0136par0055	Now that he's making fun of me...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0056	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now let's start with Mr. Günal, Mr. Sugar. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0137par0059	Mr. Günal, I'd like you to...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0060	No, no, from now on...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0138par0061	Mr. Badak picked on me.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0134par0062	Yeah. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0138par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have to correct Mr. Ünal. I'm going to correct what Mr. Ünal said, because it has nothing to do with the truth, and he hasn't said anything, but... let me just say that in this case, Mr. Badak says the same thing. When did they come out? I'm still wondering if you're in power or not. So it looks like a parallel? So now we've been together for ten years, and we didn't know. People took the stuff, and you slept it off, so where did it go? You're saying in 2003... Look, I'm telling you the number: 58.6 in 2003; 56.5 going... 54 this year, 52 billion dollars last year, is worth more than 610 billion dollars.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0139par0069	The economy grew.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0138par0070	If you divide it into dollars within the year, it's $400 billion. This is the interest rate you paid. Dear friends, in his speech as Prime Minister of the era Mr. Erdogan, he was attacking banks. These are interest lobbys. Eight of the top ten tax-paying institutions in the previous year are banks, and three are public banks. Now, I don't know who you're complaining to, who you're complaining to.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0140par0072	There's no more damage to the mission.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0138par0073	So you pushed the citizen into the hands of the lenders. Look, the citizen's debt has increased 60 times over 12 years. The citizen paid over 200 billion interest. He's still in debt. Well, then you need them in the interest lobby. Who, us? So you were in power. For him, of course, it's easy to come up here and say. Our friends, of course, know we're right, so they say things in other ways. Mr. Badak does literature, doesn't go into economics. Mr. Ünal, he's already doing more on the negotiating tables. I think we should all go back to our original functions and negotiate. Once again, you have a majority, add the Central Bank Law to the bag, and let's change it here. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0141par0075	Thank you. Mr. Sugar, please.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0142par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Our orator friend mentioned that we're just pretending not to know. We know a lot, and a lot of what we're saying here has happened, dear friends. I'm sorry, if you don't have savings, if you can't save money, if your income is low, the developed countries of the world will lend you their money, and you'll pay us interest like a lion. And you have no right to blame anyone. Increase your savings and don't borrow money from anyone. And it's not right for you to do that. That's what you've got with the travel stuff, good. That's when we said it. And when there are travel events, who takes them out? Come on, brother, let's bring it up. Did you get it? No. I've got some very valuable congressmen here, and we've worked together. We worked together on the Commission for Research on Impacts and Covenants. Why are the coups happening in this country, why is it, who's running these finances, who's doing what before, who's the interest lobby, who's stealing these money, who's planning the coup, who's always talking about it, have we set up a commission on it, bring it to Parliament? You didn't bring it. But today you say: "Time is limited, sir, one month to close the House." We did it two years ago. If you had brought them, dear friends, you didn't bring them. I'm sorry, you have no right to blame us here. If there's an interest lobby in this country, if someone's planning something in this country, let's find out together. Whoever it is, let's find out. Mr. President can make a phone call to the President or the Minister of the Central Bank and speak in front of the press. So, if you're doing this, you really need to look where the lobby is, who's actually financing who, who's benefiting from it, you need to look over there, dear friends. So come in, come in, sign off on setting up this commission, say yes, raise your hands, and we'll find out who's the lobbyist and who's against the lobby. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0143par0084	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0144par0090	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0143par0091	There's a request for roll call before you put the group proposal to your votes. Mr. Gök, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Günal, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Earth, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Özgundüz. All right. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the Republican People's Party Group's proposal that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/428) I respectfully submit that my main Law Proposal, under Article 37, should be taken directly into the agenda of the General Assembly. Yes, the bidder is Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0145par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs of the Turkish nation, I have taken a pledge under Article 37 of the Interior Charter, as my proposal for the law, which includes regulation in the additional indicators of our police, is not included in the relevant commission. I salute your high council. My proposal for the law aims to bring the additional indicators of all law enforcement personnel to their rightful place, starting with the Chief of Police on the additional indicator table of State Officers' Law No. 657. The most important reason for our proposal is that the police, who fight terrorism, maintain public order, maintain peace and order, have the right to their rights. Turkish police have given their blood and lives without hesitation for the tasks I've counted since the day it existed. In this regard, AKP executives have also been indifferent to the known problems of Turkish police. (X) The Turkish police's commitment to correct the rights and working conditions has not been made by the prime minister of the period and its interested ministers. Instead of keeping his promise, the AKP has sent the police after the AKP opposition. The AKP government has put the police in the presence of terrorists who have martyred their friends with orders. The AKP government chose to use police as a pawn rather than solve police problems. The AKP government has made police a tool for the continuation of its power. Turkish police are operating both against international contracts and against our Constitution and laws in terms of working conditions. As a stressful profession, police work is an area of violence over time. In particular, it is negative to our police that police taking positions at meetings and demonstrations long ago have to remain on the field until further notice, the uncertainty of their working conditions and hours, their permits, and their time of rest are interrupted. Because of the pressure they're under, police chiefs are occasionally drawn to staff under their command, which is a serious concern for the police. The sensitive provisions in the Police Disciplinary Charter cause constant concern of investigations, the constant presence of cameras in social events, and the constant exposure of police to unjust accusations in the media reduces enthusiasm and excitement. Because of the police's problems, depressions have arisen that lead to suicides. Police have been deceived for eight years, even though former AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the current operational leader, has promised. What they want is for me to correct their additional indicators, which are also the subject of this law proposal, especially the number of 3600 additional indicators for police officers who have graduated from the university. What they want is to work as a human being, to rest as a human being, and to take time off. AKP governments are blind and deaf to these proposals, ignoring them. The priority of AKP governments is to maintain their own power. For this, national, spiritual, religious, legal, human values mean nothing. According to the AKP, values must be placed underfoot and maintain power if necessary. With such understanding, the AKP governs Turkey. We're at a time when the police are being discussed heavily by the police force. The Homeland Security Bill has provided a basis for intense discussions and talks on police authority. On this occasion, police problems should be resolved, while the AKP has chosen to resolve their own problems with this bill. The AKP has forced the government to commit its policies and decisions against its preferences, by squeezing the police from its community to intimidate those who oppose it. The AKP has destroyed police for investigating December 17th and 25th. With a domestic security package, the AKP wants to exploit corruption and bribery, theft, separatism, those who do not consent, and those who object, using the police. In order to become a police officer, to be promoted and to remain a police officer, the AKP wants to establish a system that is essential to being a AKP member. The purpose of the domestic security package is not to solve the problems of the police, but to maintain the power of the AKP. With the interior security bill, the AKP wants to further undermine the image of the police, making the police more likely to be in trouble. With these thoughts, I would welcome the General Assembly's acceptance of my proposal directly into the agenda, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0146par0120	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. As a member of parliament, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0147par0124	Mr. President, I've made a commitment on behalf of the National Party of Actions about the law proposal we've made. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, in order for a citizen to live in peace and security, it requires a healthy, strong, nonprofit police force. In order for the police to be safe, security needs to be valued and supported in order to improve the quality of service. However, those who need to do so do a lot of work that will make the law enforcement agency completely not the state's security unit, but the government's security unit. If this internal security package comes out in this form, then the police's reputation on the street will no longer be restored because in many cases today, there are very serious negative perceptions in the minds of citizens involved in police matters. Meetings are being held in a place where there is no Turkish flag, some irregular rags are being opened, some posters are being opened, while there are not enough gas available to four retired police who have come to the door of parliament as if the Turkish state had no police, but there can be enough gas, Pharma gas can be found, can be found, can be found, can be found. This perception and society, unfortunately, are causing a lot of trouble. To eliminate this perception, this domestic security package must be withdrawn from here and the police can take their place in this country as the Turkish state's security unit.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0148par0126	How can he take his place?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0147par0127	Now, friends, of course, continue their habit of saying things, but they made the police who did the same thing as the 666th Amendment. I don't know, if he works in the intelligence department, if he works in the police station, that much salary, that much traffic, but no matter where he works, if any police officer steps on AKP chief's foot, get him out of there, transfer him, suspend him, drive him. Of course, there's nothing to defend about this divisional pay difference. Police are police everywhere, and everything the police do is as important as any other. We perceive this distinction as a separation between a father and his sons, and we believe that this wrong must be corrected. Now, another problem: within the police force -- here, you're making a lot of arrangements with this law again -- but you're not solving the problems of police officers or police officers. The salary difference between a fourth-grade police commissioner and a police officer is almost nowhere near his desk. Is the responsibility of a fourth-rate police commissioner equal to the responsibility of a police officer? It's not. These need to be solved, too. Again, you've put our officers' salaries at a certain point with good and bad compensations, but a retired policeman has lost 40 percent of what he's getting while he's working. So, anyway, at 55 years of age, the police retire at the age of 55, even if they don't have an age pension, and they're retired in these conditions, enough to say enough! But when they retire, we got out of this job, we got rid of the mobbing. After that, they can't stand up, they can't eat, they can't read, they go out again, they go out looking for work, and, unfortunately, they start working as an armed force in front of a bunch of inappropriate people they've been fighting for years. Again, the hours of the police, the hours of his shift, the hours of his shift, the hours of his departure are not set, but there's not much of a working fee, and they need to be fixed. Of course, our officers who work under these difficult conditions have other problems. Here we send the police to Haqkari. We send the police to the police. We make them wait for days in Kızılay. We make them wait. People suffer. But to this day, the police department has never given any psychological support to these people, so these people are causing mistakes, committing suicide, breaking up their family peace, their homes falling apart, their children going into trouble. He says these people's economic problems need to be resolved by resolving these other problems, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0149par0133	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0150par0136	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0149par0137	We've got a roll call. Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Dedeloğlu, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Illum, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Oral, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Belen, Mr. Bal, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Irbeç. Yeah, I'll start roll call and give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the proposal to be taken directly in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code: Those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0151par0146	What about your promises to the cops?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0149par0147	Now, please, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0152par0150	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. I asked for word two days before the roll call, as a physician and as an ex-employee of the Department of Health. Maybe because the TV doesn't show us, we've got a lot of people watching us on the Internet, even though most people don't. We just had an Antalya MP friend here -- who's not a doctor, who's not a doctor, and I was right later on when I found out -- let alone misinformation the citizen -- gentlemen, you don't use antibiotics in the flu. Studies on rational drug use are the work the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey has been trying to do since the 57th government. It's to prevent waste and to protect our health. Besides, we're a Parliament where violence is the most talked about in health, a Parliament that's worked on it. When I arrived on March 14th, I got the flu, and you didn't write me antibiotics, and I thought about the burden that would go on with healthcare workers, and to protect public health, the use of antibiotics when it comes to the flu...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit07spe0153par0154	Yes, thank you. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to have to choose for the Radio and Television Oversight for the 1 membership that was discharged on February 10, 2015, under Article 35 of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television. He has been nominated for 1 membership in the People's Democratic Party Group, which was divorced on the upper council. The names of the candidates were printed in the form of ballots. He will be selected as the most eligible candidate on the election list, provided the meeting and decision are sufficient. Now I'm reading the candidates' names in the last name order: The candidates shown by Peoples' Democratic Party Group are Ersin Öngel, Nevruz Uður. I propose how the vote will be cast: from the commission and the clerk members of the government, from Adana to Denizli, including Denizli and Diyarbakir to İstanbul, from İstanbul to İstanbul; and from İzmir to Mardin to Mardin, and from Mersin, to Zonguldak, starting with the commission, to Zonguldak, to Zonguldak, to Zonguldak, and to the letter of a sealed ballot. Taking the ballot and the envelope, the member of the People's Democratic Party Group will mark the square across the candidate's name with a cross sign and place the ballot in the envelope and drop it in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court stand. The ballots marked by multiple candidates from the candidate list will be invalid. These issues are clearly listed on the ballot as footnotes. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Now, I'm going to draw a name for the count and transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man commission: Mr. Ugur Flagtutan? No. Mr. Ali Serindağ? No. Mr. Seyit Hardness? No. Mr. Nihat Ergun? No. Mr. Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu? No. Mr. Idris Şahin? Here. Mr. Pelin Günşe Copper? Here. Mr. Gökhan. Good morning. No. Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame? No. Mr Murat Gökturk? Here. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan? No. Mr. Leyla Zana? No. Mr. Bulent Belen? No. Mr. Mehmet Altay? Here. Mr. Aysel Tugluk? No. Mr. Halil Product? No. Mr. Bulent Tezcan? No. Mr. Riza Sürmen? No. Mr. Mehmet Haberal? No. Mr. Sakine Öz? No. Mr. Mehmet Shandır? Here. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Do we have any members who don't use the game? No. Yes, the voting process is complete. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. Mr. İdris Şahin, Çankırı; Mr. Murat Gökturk, Nevşehir; Mr. Mehmet Şandir, Mersin; Mr. Pelin Günş Bakır, Kayseri; Mr. Mehmet Altay; please come in. [[The votes have been discriminated]] I'm reading a report from the Commission for Accounts for the election of the Radio and Television Supreme Council membership: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 216 members participated in the election for membership of 1 (one) of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, which was vacant on the Radio and Television Supreme Council, and the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Recep Special Murat Gökturk Mehmet Şandir Pelin Günş Bakır Mehmet Altay Number of votes used: 216 According to this, Ersin Öngel was elected to one of the members of the Radio and Television Oversight on 10 February 2015. I wish him well. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger now.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 8th Session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Police and Salahiye Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services; Çanakkale MP Mr İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koshan's Law Proposal for the Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP for the Law on Humanity Services; Mr. Lsakkale MP İskdemir Kashdemir's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Husbandship of Human Rights of Human Rights on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and the Council of Human Rights Act on Human Rights; We will Proposal Law on the Constitution; We shall Proposition of Peace and Proposals on the Constitution of Security of Security of Peace of Peace of Security of Security of Peace and Security of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on Human Law on Human Law on the Security of Security and Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security and Security and Security of Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of Security of the Security of Security of Security of Human Law on the Security of Security of the Security of Security of Security of Security of Human. of Peace and Security and Security of Human. of Human. of the Council of the Council of the Council of Human. of Human. of the Council of the Council of Human. of Human.. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the vote was completed on Article 51, which was included in the third chapter of the last draft of the bill, which was considered the main law. Congressmans, there are two motions for the new clause violation. I'll read the first motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Laws on Humanity Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal's Proposal for Adition of Information Act; İstanbul MP 2-4-4-4-4-4* The Proposal for Alteration of the Law on Humanity, 216/4th Amendments of the Law and 216th Amendments under the Laws of the Law, 216th Amendment to the Law on the Law and 2th Amendment of the Law and 2th Amendments of the Law. "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces are also paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a staff at home. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can be extended once, not for more than two months in mandatory conditions. Those times separated from duty count as services." After Article 51 in the shape of Article 51, we propose that the following matter be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0154par0040	Mr. President, we're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0041	Yes, read the other motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Alternateness of Local Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Al-Secresultation; İstanbul Commissioner's Proposal for Al-Securation and Al-Securation of Lawsal Laws; 2559ths of Laws and Amendments of Laws and Amendments of Laws and Amendments under Articles (Secration).
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0155par0046	We're rolling, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0047	The motion has been drawn. Congressmans, there's a criticism that our viewers don't know about this motion, and I'd like to make a statement to inform them. In each section of every law that we've taken action under Article 91, which we've discussed in sections -- if it's processed -- any group that's involved in the re-matter violations can only make a motion. If they read the motions and withdraw them without processing them, they may be able to continue the other motions, since this motion is not counted. I wanted to inform the viewers about the Civil Code. There are feedbacks on this, for everyone...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0156par0050	Mr. President, he's being processed.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0051	No, that's something else.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0156par0052	You're saying it's been removed from the process.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0053	I mean, I'm not arguing with you right now, that's different. It's the same for everyone, for your group, and for the opposition. Since it's unknown, there are some questions that I've been asked, and I've answered to inform them. Yes, now, there are three motions, one in Article 52, against the Constitution, that I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services Act; Vice Minister of Human Rights and Law on Amendments of Human Rights; İstanbul MP İs Knakkale İs Kashdemirdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on Amendments on the Code; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Order on the Law shall be made under the Law Act; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Code; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office on the Law; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanity; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law shall be under the Law on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Peace and the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Human Law shall be under the Law and under the Law and the Constitution of Law on the Law and the Constitution of the Law on the Constitution of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law.; The Law shall be under the Code of Human Code of Human Law and under the Law. MADDE 16-Georgian personnel who have been deemed unfit to remain in office due to a alleged non-military crime may be suspended by the Home Secretary. When necessary, the general commander of the gendarmes may make an offer. The staff of the district police commanders can be suspended from duty by the governor, except for the commander of the province of Gendarme. When necessary, the governor of the county can make an offer. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Court of Military Courts, dated 25/10/1963, and the Law on Trials and Trials No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, and special provisions for the dismissal of the General General General of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, dated 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Law on Discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces 6413, suspended, and temporarily suspended. The suspension of civil servants is subject to the provisions of State Officers Act No. 657, dated 14/7/1965." We offer and propose that Article 52 be replaced as follows. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Ik It has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 16 of the Law 52-2803. MADDE 16-Georgian personnel who have been deemed unfit to remain in office due to a alleged non-military crime may be suspended by the Minister of Interior by the general general of the gendarmes. The staff of the district police commanders, except for the governor's commander, can be suspended by the governor. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Court of Military Courts, dated 25/10/1963, and the Law on Trials and Trials No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, and special provisions for the dismissal of the General General General of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, dated 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Law on Discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces 6413, suspended, and temporarily suspended. The suspension of civil servants is subject to the laws of State Officers No. 657, dated 14/7/1965. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "Add to Article 16 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. MPs may be suspended by the Interior Minister for alleged non-military duties. When necessary, the general commander of the gendarmes may make an offer. The staff of the district police commanders can be suspended from duty by the governor, except for the commander of the province of Gendarme. When necessary, the governor of the county can make an offer. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Law on Military Courts No. 25/10/1963 and Court of Appeals No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Turkish Armed Forces Discipline Act 6413, release, suspension and temporary suspension of the General General General General. The suspension of civil servants is subject to provisions dated 17/7/1965 and under the Law of State Officers No. 657. We propose and propose that Article 52 be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer Ali Haydar Öner To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and That Article One of the First Amendment of the Constitution and Court of Law shall be removed from the bill on account of violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and basic human rights and against the one-party-one-migration regime, and beyond the police state, the actual "war state" of law and law. Pervin Buldan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0157par0090	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0091	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0158par0092	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0093	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0159par0094	Levent corporate...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0153par0095	Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0160par0097	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good evening to you all. Homeland security continues to torture. The government, the government, the Prime Minister, the President have turned this into arm wrestling. We've left three weeks behind, and AKP MPs are on duty to carry out instructions on the removal of this domestic security package. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the 52nd article is about the military personnel. It's an arrangement for both the Home Secretary and the governor to suspend him in case he feels uncomfortable. So, once again, it's an arrangement that extends, enhances the powers of law enforcement. Since the beginning, we have opposed this package of antidemocratic practices called internal security, which we have been talking about in violation of the Constitution, violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, violation of international law, but you have never been able to listen to it. What happened in Turkey during the period of time, in fact, showed that despite all this pressure law, opposition to AKP power was even more concentrated. Here, power wants white governors, white cops. The president is rounding up governors and giving instructions. In fact, those who face this law before the law is passed can't be made a press statement in front of political parties, public buildings, trade unions, professional rooms, as the governor of İzmir has done, immediately and in his own way, he makes a statement and gives a fetish. Where is the response to this in the Constitution, the law, international law, is there? No. Once again, the governor of Izmir has made another statement on the reaction, who can declare the meeting, the right to the demonstration, and who can forbid it? We didn't mean it, anyone can perform, but it's like this, it's like this, it's not like this. He wants to explain it. Look, the workers of this country are angry with power because of people who have been working for days like a dollar lobby, throwing away dollars every time they talk, but stealing money from workers, workers, hard-paid people. In this country, the small manufacturer, the civil servant, everyone who's fired from their job, who's involved in business killings, responds to this power. Now, the effort to bring in this law, especially before the election, is the fear behind it. On the one hand he's scared, and on the other, he's trying to keep the power going with this despotism, and on the other hand, he's trying to spread fear into the community. Last day, March 8th, women filled the squares in the face of attacks on their personalities, their bodies, their sexual preferences, their freedoms, their beliefs, but an unwise government continued to speak in the same way, the same equation. We're looking at the mentality of this power that appears at the Turkish Language Foundation. Today, social media was all over the place. At the Turkish Language Foundation, the term for "free" -- in parentheses -- is a clear expression of sexist exploitation that once again insults, insults, insults, inequalities.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0161par0105	Oh, crap!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0162par0106	It's a shame.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0160par0107	And so, in the face of twelve years of power, women, workers, workers, peasants, the tradesmen who have been condemned to be destroyed by this crisis of the economy, everyone has been satisfied with this power, and this legal arrangement, however much you want, will not save you. Critics of power are identified by Facebook, and a subcontractor in Çanakkale is expelled from a job in public health. Why? Because he criticised the Prime Minister, the President. Is that even possible? Where's freedom of thought? Where are your high democratic standards? But you can't stand it. Then, because that subcontractor has taken care of his employee, you don't give him a bid. Open up, look, the newspapers are talking about it page by page. Now, in the name of democracy, you return and give the Constitutional Amendment. What is it? Do not shut down political parties. People close down. The Prime Minister Ala (X) says so. That's not part of the law you're drafting. Why is the dam stopping? Why, and if you're bringing in this Homeland Security Act, then you're so fond of democracy? All of this is unrealistic, just like the Kabataş lie, but you're trying to protect this power with Goebbelsian propaganda, like the lie of the assassination of Sümeyya Erdogan, but in vain. Our citizens seeking justice, freedom, peace, the right to work will not recognize this law. Withdraw this law.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0163par0109	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0164par0111	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0163par0112	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "Add to Article 16 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "Abstract from duty MPs may be suspended by the Interior Minister for alleged non-military duties. When necessary, the general commander of the gendarmes may make an offer. The staff of the district police commanders can be suspended from duty by the governor, except for the commander of the province of Gendarme. When necessary, the governor of the county can make an offer. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Law on Military Courts No. 25/10/1963 and Court of Appeals No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Turkish Armed Forces Discipline Act 6413, release, suspension and temporary suspension of the General General General General. The suspension of civil servants is subject to provisions dated 17/7/1965 and under the Law of State Officers No. 657. We propose and propose that Article 52 be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0165par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0163par0122	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0166par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0167par0124	Mr. Sedef Small will speak.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0163par0125	Mr. Little, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0168par0127	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 52 of Law Bill 684. I salute your high council. We need to look at what it does to our society, what it does to our future, and what it does to our future, but it also has to look at what the bill and what the proposals bring in when we make this assessment. In this regard, we can easily see that some of the clauses of this bill do not promise our people a more democratic, freer, more prosperous Turkey, but do not contain arrangements to make our people's lives easier, to make them better. In this article, for example, the arrangement is more hierarchically appropriate for the general officer and his ranking superior officer, who will be suspended from duty. In fact, this bill imposes a regime where an overrated sense of security is made more valuable than the basic rights and freedoms of humans. And why? Because someone is afraid of losing power, because someone sees the streets, the squares as a threat, because someone can't stand the struggle for rights. There's no need to beat around the bush. Such a regime is an authoritarian regime, and the name of the state that is intended to be established by this bill is the state of the police. Where will Turkey, which is meant to be created by this bill, be scattered? Do you think you can silence every opponent, every loud voice, with a law like this, with the pressure of this law? If he could do that, those who run the country by martial law on September 12th would have succeeded in creating a quiet Turkey with these laws. If he had succeeded, the juntas would have succeeded, sending the young men of this country to the gallows as an example to their citizens. Today, those who make an example of it will be the ones who cut off young plants. If not a single servant of God remembers those days with good things, there are many lessons in this. I assure you, if this bill becomes legal, if the community is re-entered in a war like September 12th, then the future Turkey will never remember these days as a blessing. Dear lawmakers, the people who live on this land have seen a lot of pain, they've seen blows, they've lived under torture, pressure and intimidation policies have become daily. People of this country have seen the rulers who have succumbed to their passions and power poisoning camping people. If this bill, which will turn the country into an open-air prison, is carried out, believe me, our people will suffer more. It's an honorable duty not to allow it, beyond being a right. This is not only the duty of the opposition, but of the Republican People's Party, as well as of the PKK and the HDP (HDP). I'd like to remind you that no matter what your heritage, no matter who your loyalty belongs to, you'll eventually be left with your conscience, the choices you make, the decisions you make, the decisions you make. Now you're going to see people get hurt by these fingers you lift. You have to face the fact that you had something to do with hurting those people. Believe me, it's not an easy burden to carry, and the plague is too heavy. Dear lawmakers, the boundary between public order and individual victimization is very thin, and that's exactly what you want to do as you go along. First, you put pressure on the press, and it wasn't enough; you interrupted society because it was mine; it wasn't enough; you suppressed every voice in opposition, and that wasn't enough. Now, you want to establish an authoritarian government with this bill, but you won't be able to do it, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0169par0135	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0170par0136	Is the decision enough or the roll call?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0169par0137	But first, I'd like to talk about teasing, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0170par0138	But I'll put it to the vote now, and then we'll do the picking.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0171par0141	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0170par0142	Now, Mr. Gök, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Küyük, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öner, Mr. Önçü, Mr. Kültük, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Kuyoğlu. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0172par0151	Mr. President, the speaker has appointed our party. So no one has the right to tell us what field our party is going to move in. I want to talk to you about bullying about it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0170par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0172par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, of course, each political party has its own corporate personality, making politics of its own free will. So I'm afraid it's not appropriate for a political party to save any money on another political party. Now, the Republican People's Party MP said in a speech here that he also invited the Nationalist Movement Party to take part in this mission. Which is the only way we're going to act is if we draw and act within the framework of our own charter, our plan and our program. So that's how a free political party operates. We're under no one's protection and under no monopoly. Now, of course, when we look at the materials that we're talking about here, first of all, we observe in these articles that, in March 16, 1919, the groom, Ferit, was made against Kuvaimilli, in the period of the government of Kuvaimilli, the General Command of the Gendarme, in which the gendarme was taken into the custody of the Infirmate and put in the same form as you would like to do today against Kuvaimilliya, in the form of a national army fighting against the territory under siege. Therefore, it is impossible to accept. So who are you going to use the gendarme against? The Carabinieri have already established what reason and circumstances it was founded today. Therefore, I would like to express to you in particular that you are following a wrong policy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0173par0161	Mr. Botanci, I'm opening your system.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0174par0164	Mr. President, thank you. While Mr. Levent was speaking, he mentioned a statement in the Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary. Here is a statement in the second statement in response to the word "approved" in which a woman is ready to flirt, able to flirt easily -- within parentheses -- is an expression in which she is able to flirt. This is an expression that debases women, demeaning women, an extension of understanding, an extension of the mind, and a statement that should not be in public about Turkish language. In that respect, I thank Mr. Levent, and thank you very much for the friends who have expressed it on social media. There are opportunities for modern life for women to participate in social life and equality of opportunity; urbanization, industrialization, social transformation. All these developments also radically transform her role, her status, her place in social life from the past. We're all actually being formed on that wave of modernity, our policies may be different, but I think we have some issues in common. One of them is the woman's participation in social life and the equality of opportunity. I think that every conscience, environment, politics, however different, appreciates the issues that power has done in this regard. However, this understanding of the woman, this mentality, the approach we demand to be changed, has to carry a perspective on the future, a projection in the way I meant it, and in the past, this...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0175par0168	Thank you. Mr. Sky, if you want to talk about bullying, you'll talk about it here, and for information there. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0176par0172	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, the passing of such a statement at the state-controlled Turkish Language Foundation -- which we all feel sorry for -- reflects an understanding of political power, as well. What did President Recep Tayyip Erdogan mean when he said equality is opposite? What did he mean by that? Take your mother and go. What did she mean by that? Each abortion is a Uludere. What did he mean by that? Again, what did he mean when he said, "If she is chaste, she will not laugh in public?" I don't call it a wife. There is no mate, there is no equality. I wouldn't call my wife and child equal. Not my wife, but my wife. When I say the working woman, she does the boss's work. When I say the AKP spokesmen and the writers they've been referred to... these wouldn't have been written without simple, ordinary evaluations, without the support and protection of political power. Everyone, once and for all, clean up the mess in front of you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0177par0175	Mr. Halaçoglu, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0178par0176	Sir, excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0177par0177	Wait a second... If you want to talk about bullying, fine.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0178par0179	Yeah, it's obvious.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0177par0180	Wait, he's in the system now. What are you guys...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0179par0182	Sir, about that...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0177par0183	No, wait a minute, let me hear it first.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0179par0184	On the word "Hakir," on the word "excuseable"
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0177par0185	Oh, so you're going to talk about the dictionary, I get it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0179par0187	On the word "possible" Mr. President, now, of course, the word "importable" means "appropriate, appropriate person." I mean, are you available? It's just... I mean, the sample was a little unpleasant, of course, in the language institution's statement. So you can apply for a position, ask if it's available when you want to meet, so he could give you an example. It's not pretty here, it's not nice. But look, when you use such words, in Turkish, there are some very important values that need to be used very properly. So, in a way, in the words of elasticity in Turkish, you have to use it both carefully, in other words, and you have to do the pronunciation correctly. So you can't say the word "hakir" or the word "fakir" like you can't say the word "fakir." Therefore, these should be pronounced very correctly. Unfortunately, the fact that there were no markings to extend the letters, as it used to be, appears to be a major flaw. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0180par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0181par0194	I'm going to promise you this, but first of all, there's something that's been getting the attention of all women lately, and in every sense, various NGOs, writers, painters, women politicians, both very hurtful and objectionable. I beg you, by praising our coven, but men usually give their samples through women. We, as lawmakers, as elected men, have to figure out a way to eliminate this, if we can be careful with his woman, with his man. I mean, there's a fight going on, a woman for example, something good, a woman for example. We don't want it, brother, don't. I mean, no one, no woman wants that. I mean, I don't know if we're gonna put peppers on this or if we're gonna do something with this mallet. [[Applause]] Yes, sir, please.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0180par0199	Mr. President, dear friends, we're here to eat grapes, not beat up the laces. If we try to beat up a lace, there's a lot of talk in our saddlebags, but that's not what we intend to do. Our intention is to show common goals regarding the future of this country, where everyone agrees, compromises, deals, even if there's a degree of difference between them, there's no difference in nature. And while I was explaining in my place a moment ago, with a careful attitude, so that no one could get picked on, how do we look at the women's issue through the current pronunciation of this issue, what is our approach to the future, and I was going to stress that a very rehabilitative approach to the past reflections of this existing mentality was necessary, while the microphone was cut off. Of course, it's not a matter of two minutes. But I refuse to let Mr. Levent call this opportunity an opportunity to take a number of sentences out of the way and bring a political criticism over him, and say words beyond criticism, the size of taunting. Look, you have to read the AK PARTY correctly. AK PARTY is the politics of modern Turkey, just like you. We're all children of modernity, we're all talking in a context that judges with the data of the modern world, and when we look back on tradition, we're all trying to rebuild tradition on that kind of reasoning. Women's equality, inequality; they are referred to in literature as "reification." Now, this isn't exactly an academic platform, but we can't discuss it in a cheap polemic language like this, I'm sorry. The important thing is to get close to the woman's issue, right, consistently, and the power has revealed it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0182par0203	Convince Recep Tayyip Erdogan first.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0183par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0184par0205	Now, since Mr. Corporate was the first to rise, I just mixed up the Levents. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0183par0208	Mr. President, the Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group has described the matter of addressing these women as an opportunism and a cheap policy, and I don't think so, unfortunately, contrary to their rhetoric. First of all, with all the women's demand for equality in this regard, when power was criticised in all the squares yesterday (March 8th), especially for women's violence, murders, harassment, rapes, and above all, pardons to the perpetrators behind these murders, good behaviors, appreciation reductions... Now, Mr. President, I mean, women shouldn't be wrapped up in the language of politicians, but half of this country is in the highest rank due to women's population and especially women's struggle, women's movement over the past 12 years because of policies followed by power. So it's not really an opportunism to talk about this issue here, but we're also doing the needs of the modern age. It's impossible to explain AKP's policies in its speech. From a woman's point of view, break her knee, stay at home, and if you want to work, serve capital with flexible working models.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0185par0210	It used to be, it used to be.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0183par0211	This is the property of the package that they're bringing in the day after tomorrow, because it's called the family package. So the idea of women in our country versus the understanding of both capital power and the desire to create a conservative society of capital has been taken to the fields on March 8th Women's Day, and the point where they all come together especially is that as long as the power does not change this mentality, it is clear that there is an approach to women at the Turkish Language Institution in our case, the concept of efficiency, the concept of women, which is capable of a sexist approach to women. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I say that he should pay attention to those who bring criticism against it and fight by listening, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0186par0215	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0187par0219	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in fact, I fully accept Mr. Naci Bostancı's first speech, and I agree that he has given an important speech here, and he has made it clear that he disagreed with a statement in the Turkish Language Association's dictionary. I thank him. Now, the problem, of course, is not the issue of ownership of Mr. Bostanci. I don't see it that way. Now, if the pregnant woman had been like this, she wouldn't be able to walk the street. If she hadn't invited a person to speak on state television every week, I'd agree with you, Mr. Naci Bostancı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is the ownership of a political power to evaluate women in a manner that all of Turkey will see and listen to in open sessions or other platforms to writers who speak down on television and write. Now, maybe you're at a crossroads here. I think you should behave yourself. Look, these fractures may help us find the truth. Now, why did we celebrate March 8th, the Day of Working Women? We celebrated the violence against the woman to end the vile treatment of the woman, and we kept the women in line. I'm not getting into any political pollen here. We -- including myself -- have to change men's heads, my dear friends, in Turkey we men have to change our mentality first in solving women's problems; so does the AKP (AKP) people, so does the People's Party (CHP) and the People's Party (HDP) and the People's Party (HDP). We need to change our genetic understanding in bulk and fight ourselves first. I'm underlineing that. He says that if we fight this understanding, a woman will find her rightful place in Turkey, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0188par0224	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0189par0225	Mr. President, I would also like to express the opinion of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0188par0226	But you just...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0189par0227	That word was on you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0188par0228	Wait a minute... you guys talked about the word, and then Mr. Bostan wanted to talk about his bullying. I can't promise not to tease you. Open it up, get into the system, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0189par0229	He talked about cheap politics, and we have nothing to do with cheap politics.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0188par0230	No, he didn't mean the MHP. So let's not bend things. Get into the system, we're giving two minutes to the vice president.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0189par0231	Okay.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0188par0232	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0189par0235	Thank you. Mr. President, right now, the AKP is talking about cheap politics as a modern political party. Now, if a modern political party, then, without distinguishing the people that Allah created from each other -- about 290 women were harassed and murdered in their own time in the last year -- then we all promise here, we all make a proposal to do everything we need to do with them, together, without leaving them for a day. Look, in the same way, but in the meantime, who's to suggest that they don't work because they're having children? We'll have to consider that. On the other hand, there's no way to defend what the Language Society did. All right, from this angle, what do we say about guys who are available to flirt? Why wasn't it written as an example? So they have rights, but the others have no rights? That's out of the question. If we all have a moral order, if it's worth it, no one should insult her over it. So I reject and repeat the claim that such a cheap policy has been made: We are ready to immediately pass a law that will remove the violence, humiliation, and abuse of women. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0190par0240	Let's hear it for the woman. What's it gonna be, four weeks to vacation? And I'll be checking every man's mouth for four weeks. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal of Law; Law Proposal for Amendments on the Law on Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on Al-Biography; İstanbul MP 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4th Amendments on the Constitutional Act on the Constitutional Law, and the Constitutional Council of the Law on Humanity of Human Rights, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4. MADDE 16-Georgian personnel who have been deemed unfit to remain in office due to a alleged non-military crime may be suspended by the Home Secretary. When necessary, the general commander of the gendarmes may make an offer. The staff of the district police commanders can be suspended from duty by the governor, except for the commander of the province of Gendarme. When necessary, the governor of the county can make an offer. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Court of Military Courts, dated 25/10/1963, and the Law on Trials and Trials No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, and special provisions for the dismissal of the General General General of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, dated 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Law on Discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces 6413, suspended, and temporarily suspended. The suspension of civil servants is subject to the provisions of State Officers Act No. 657, dated 14/7/1965." We offer and propose that Article 52 be replaced as follows. It has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 16 of the Law 52-2803. MADDE 16-Georgian personnel who have been deemed unfit to remain in office due to a alleged non-military crime may be suspended by the Minister of Interior by the general general of the gendarmes. The staff of the district police commanders, except for the governor's commander, can be suspended by the governor. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Court of Military Courts, dated 25/10/1963, and the Law on Trials and Trials No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, and special provisions for the dismissal of the General General General of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, dated 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Law on Discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces 6413, suspended, and temporarily suspended. The suspension of civil servants is subject to the laws of State Officers No. 657, dated 14/7/1965. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0191par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0190par0259	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0192par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0190par0261	Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0193par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Turkish lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on Article 52 of the Charter No. 684. I salute your high council. The provisions, from Article 49 to Article 68 (68) of the bill, include provisions from 49 to 68 (68) which allow the General Command of the Gendarme, which are part of the Ministry of Interior, to become more active, more competent to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the affairs of the Coast Guard, especially for their personnel. While this arrangement was being made, both the commissioners of the ruling party and the speakers who made public statements to the General Assembly have always said: "This bill has a special feature for the civilisation of the gendarmes, military institutions." These actions are being made in order to be more effective and faster and to make decisions in the fight against the terrorist, such as these arrangements are being made. However, during an open session in the past few weeks, a member of the Interior Commission and a member of the Justice and Development Party, who had been the moderator of this bill, said: "No, this is not a bill for the fight against terrorism. This is a bill designed to predict and prevent a social response to Justice and Development Party governments. We are working for him. And therefore, the ruling party's MP on these issues came to the point that we said, and he began to evaluate it from our critical point of view. This bill, in fact, is on our agenda today, as part of the agreement that was made there, in Oslo, beyond the written grounds. The PKK does not want the Kurdistan Workers' Party. The PKK wants the gendarme, one of the most valuable institutions of the Turkish state in the fight against terrorism, to be, in some way -- pardon me -- to be offended, to be detained from the fight against terrorism, to be torn apart. This statement was made to the PKK, and it comes to our agenda in that framework. It must have been a divine revelation, and in 1919, Farid, the son-in-law, who was embraced by nations that occupied Ottoman lands, had made such an attempt on March 15, 1919. In return, the Ottomans' other bureaucracy of that day mentioned that the gendarme would become political. This attempt was infertile. Now, the PKK wants this job. We said, yes, the PKK wants it. As a matter of fact, in Dolmabahçe, February 28th, the ten-point negotiation text, which emerged with the joint initiative of the HDP and the AKP, appears to have already agreed with HDP on this bill. In the Republican People's Party, certain factions say yes to this bill, and certain spoils say no, and they are confused. So there's only one nationalist movement party that clearly opposes this bill, and we have no intention of changing our position. Mr. President, lawmakers, this bill will be political for the gendarmes. If such an arrangement is carried out without considering the military duties of the gendarmes, the district commanders will be under the influence of the ruling parties -- today's Justice and Development Party, tomorrow, hopefully us or another party -- their borough heads. The governors of the province will be under the influence of the mayors. So this bill is a malfunction for all of us. Look, I'm telling you, Jandarma is being torn apart about this bill. The previous article, the 51st article, has passed such an arrangement that a festive arrangement has been passed on the households. The generals of the gendarmes will be appointed by a trilateral decree, the governors of the district and district will be appointed by the Minister, and the other staff will be appointed by the general general of the gendarmes. For God's sake, let one of the government's officials come and explain to me, let's say the Home Secretary doesn't want the commander of a county, he's relieved him, he's replaced him. How and who will appoint that county commander of the gendarmes to another mission? I want a government official to explain this to me in particular as Article 51 of this law. Thus, this arrangement will lead each of the staff of the General Staff to each one of the qiblahs, each of whom will be directed to other centers, to other locations in terms of appointment. Therefore, the gendarme's hierarchical... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...disciplinary and emotional ties will be severed, and the staff of the gendarmes will be destroyed, his organization will be destroyed.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0194par0274	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0193par0275	From this point of view, I would like to ask that your opinion, your opinion, be reviewed by the government in particular, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0194par0277	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0195par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0194par0279	Mr. Serindağ, first...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0195par0280	Mr. President, Mr. Turkoglu has expressed his support for this bill in the Republican People's Party and that we...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0194par0281	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0195par0282	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Türkoglu said that some of the spoils within the Republican People's Party support this bill and some of the spoils oppose it. The fact is that no Republican People's Party supports this bill because it is a bill that restricts fundamental rights and freedoms, because it is a bill that wants to create a oppressive, despotic, fascist government that wants to suppress society. In order for this bill to provide this essence, the institutions that have carried out its duties so far are being emptied and made a ruling institution dependent on power. One of them is the General Command of the Gendarmes. Look, what do you want from the gendarmes, and why, until today, what mission did the gendarme fail, and what government failed to do so because of the duty the gendarme failed, and why do you subject the gendarme to such an operation? Are the MIT trucks responsible for this operation, my dear friends? Let's make this clear. With this bill, you violate the hierarchy of the gendarmes, you violate the discipline of the gendarmes, you violate the love of serving in the gendarmes. With this bill, instead of providing internal security, you are subject to acts that are disruptive of internal security, and we are strongly against it. All Republican People's Party members are against it. We don't particularly want the security forces and especially the gendarmes to become political because the gendarmes are part of the Turkish Armed Forces. The politicalisation of the gendarmes means the politicalisation of the Turkish Armed Forces, which means disaster for the country. Therefore, I say let the gendarme run the police force, but let the Ministry of the Interior control it, that's the way it's supposed to be. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0196par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0197par0291	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0196par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Türkoglu said that HDP and AKP have agreed and that no group, other than HHP, has opposed the law. In fact, since this law began to be discussed, as the People's Democratic Party, we have stated that this law restricts freedoms in Turkey and restricts democracy in Turkey, and we have established every position in order to prevent this law from being passed, but unfortunately the AKP insists on making this law, neither the opposition nor the people who raise their voices on the street, is in a position that does not pay attention to its statements and opposition. For one thing, we want to make it clear that once this law is passed, Turkey will become an abusive country, dear friends. When you restrict democracy in this country, when you restrict action, activity in this country, the streets, you bring democracy to this country. He also expressed that HDP and AKP officials are acting jointly along with the reflection of the footage given by the Dolmabahçe Palace. We want to make it very clear, dear friends, that it was also the image of faith in peace. Since the AKP government was in power, we gave them the same image, and if the CHP were in power instead, if the MHP were in power, we would give you the same image of this process to evolve into a peace process, dear friends. So, for peace to come to this country, we have to give this country that image of whoever the ruling party is to bring equality and brotherhood to the coming of democracy. We're in this situation because they're the ones we're dealing with right now. Therefore, we declare that we do not accept such injustice, and we declare once again that we are against the adoption of this law.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0297	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0199par0304	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0305	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Irbeç, Mr. Yüçük, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Belen, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Oral, Mr. Adan, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kalajcı, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Okan, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Imur. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions for a new clause, and I'm reading the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Laws on Humanity Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal's Proposal for Adition of Information Act; İstanbul MP 2-4-4-4-4-4* The Proposal on Peace of the Law on the Law and 2-4-4-4-4-4). MADDE 16-Georgian personnel who have been deemed unfit to remain in office due to a alleged non-military crime may be suspended by the Home Secretary. When necessary, the general commander of the gendarmes may make an offer. The staff of the district police commanders can be suspended from duty by the governor, except for the commander of the province of Gendarme. When necessary, the governor of the county can make an offer. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Court of Military Courts, dated 25/10/1963, and the Law on Trials and Trials No. 353, dated 27/7/1967, and special provisions for the dismissal of the General General General of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, dated 31/1/2013, and the temporary layoff of the Law on Discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces 6413, suspended, and temporarily suspended. The suspension of civil servants is subject to the provisions of State Officers Act No. 657, dated 14/7/1965." After Article 52 in the shape of Article 52, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0200par0324	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0325	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal. İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Law Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Code of Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Human Rights on the Law of Population Services; Çanakkale MP İskdemir's Proposal Proposal for Amendments in the Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on the Law; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Order for Law on the Law and the Law of Law on Human Rights of Laws on Human Rights; Ministerships of Human Rights and Amendments on the Law; Ministership of Human Rights of Human Rights on Human Rights and Law; İstanbul Laws of Human Rights of Human Rights on Human Rights and Law; Agreement of Human Rights on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; Agreement of Humanity; Agreement of Human Rights (Biment). After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0201par0330	We're rolling, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0331	He backed off. In Article 53, there are three motions, one of which is a violation of the Constitution, that I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for the Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice Minister of Humanity Services, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal for Al-Biography Act; İstanbul Vice-Seşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşimal on the Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Code; İstanbul Commissioners Office on the Laws Office of Human Rights and Agreement on the Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanment; İstanbul Council on Humanity of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Humanity and Agreement of Humanment of Human Law on Humanity and Agreement; The Law on the Law on Humanity; İstanbul Council of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanity of Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights of Human Law on Human Rights and Agreement of Human Law on Human Law on Humanment; İstanbul (UNe) "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces are also paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a staff at home. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can be extended once, not for more than two months in mandatory conditions. Those times separated from duty count as services." We offer and propose that the 53rd article in the form be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Alim Light "MIDDE 53-2803 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 17 of the Law. "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate, or to prosecute, to be acquitted, or to be dismissed, for whatever reason, and those convicted of a crime that would not prevent them from taking office according to the laws of the law will be paid for or paid for in any way. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces are also paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a staff at home. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can be extended once, not for more than two months in mandatory conditions. Those times separated from duty count as service." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) Article 17 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. ▪ Legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may be replaced or given no other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces will also be paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a position in the country. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can only be extended once in two months, if necessary. Those times separated from duty count as service." 53 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer Levent Gök Now I'm going to read and process the amendment proposal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and The First Amendment of the Act of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Court of Human Rights in violation of the universal norms and fundamental human rights and the one party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and beyond the police state -- is to impose the actual "war state" on the 53rd Article of the bill due to violation of the Constitution and the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0202par0372	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0373	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0203par0374	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0198par0375	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0204par0377	Dear friends, do you know that in 2008 the Third National Program was disbanded here? Believe me, you didn't read it because they didn't give you a chance to read it, because now that I'm on the Third National Program, if I first asked the members of the group, what did you promise the European Union then, that the armed forces would be bound to civil authority? Now, does this package meet him? You'll fail to understand this question because it's not the same as what was written in the Third National Program, my friends. You'll say, "Why?" Now, the Third National Program has the professionalism of law enforcement units responsible for domestic security services. Now, security, justice, freedom isn't just something that's going to be handed over to anyone with a uniform like that, with a gun, you have to understand that. So, now, there used to be an EMASIA, where, according to EMASIA, the governors were bound to the army in an extraordinary situation. Now, what you're saying is that we've done the revolution, we've brought AKMASYA, we've now tied it to the military governor. Look, you've taken the model of France as an example in the Carabinieri. The word "Jandarma" is not in Turkish at all. You can't say that Turkish is Turkish, Mr. Hodja. You come out here and you tell the truth. That's how you import it, and then I'll tell you, it's not like Italy's carabinieri. In fact, I'll tell you something else, there was a forest police, a forest carabinieri, a forest armband. I don't know how many forest engineers there are here. Honestly, I don't understand why the woods aren't protected. But I really want to tell you that if you're sincere, you don't protect JITEM's unsolved murders, you don't send his files into exile, your government doesn't help protect the perpetrators, because JITEM is a deep state structure, the name of the 90's unsolved unsolved murders, it's the case of people being lost in acid wells, and it's the name of gangling in the deep state. Now, this package that you brought, for God's sake, can you tell me what part of it, what part of it, is correcting it? For now, look at the files, they're all being timed out one by one. Come on, the 90s weren't your time, but in your time -- you've been a government for three semesters -- is there or isn't there an organization called JITEM intelligence? Mr. Mahir Ünal, come out on this stand, is there or isn't there, JITEM?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0205par0380	Why did you throw that ball at me?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0204par0381	Do I have a JITEM or not?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0205par0382	Am I responsible for this?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0204par0383	Your signature is on this package, your government... Mr. Hawk, tell me if you have a JITEM or not. There are international court decisions, here, here, everywhere, founders of JITEM, Cem Ersever, Greens, I don't know, unsolved murder, all of them, brother. Now, what do we talk to you about, what do I tell you, you sit around, everybody wants tea outside, that's all... That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0206par0388	Yes, I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0207par0390	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0206par0391	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0207par0392	He made a direct pass at the truth, orator.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit08spe0206par0393	I get it, but now I've put it to a vote. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 73th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Hasip Kaplan and his friends' motion on Article 53 of the Law Bill 684. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0208par0004	No, sir, not again, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0005	I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0209par0011	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0012	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0209par0013	Something has to be fixed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0014	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0209par0015	Now, just now, before the closing, the speaker said that I was the Chairman of the Language Foundation. I've never been President of the Language Foundation in my life, and in relation to that, he asked me what language it was in. I'd like to make a statement about him.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0016	Get in your seats. Now, of course, we should always do some things and pay attention to some things, because this place is being watched from the outside -- as Mr. Lightning knows well -- there's a lot of tweets coming, it's misunderstood. Therefore, it is good for him to pay attention. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0210par0021	Anyway, Mr. President, that's why I asked. I was President of the Historical Society for 15 years. The people outside are going to say, "When did he become President of the Turkish Language Foundation?" At least I had to fix it. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, you've become president of the Turkish Language Foundation. You still don't know what a gendarme is? He told me. For one thing, I've never been President of the Turkish Language Foundation, I've been President of the Turkish Historical Society. I didn't study language matters, but the gendarmes are foreign words and Italian. So let me explain it to you from here. But since I'm chairman of the Turkish Historical Foundation, I can tell you that the organization of the gendarmes is in the Ottoman period, called the Zaptiye organization and was founded in 1853, but so far, the gendarme has played a very important role in the matter of domestic security. And it is the AKP's responsibility to bring our Armed Forces into political character and to bring them into politics. The Armed Forces are not supposed to use politics in any way, because tomorrow you will see that the gendarmes will be slackened, and in politics, as you are looking for parallel construction in the police force today, tomorrow you will suffer the same pain when he gains political status, and I warn you from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0023	What a beautiful thing, Teacher, on the one hand...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0211par0024	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0025	Just a moment, Mr. Kaplan. It's a good thing they think you're the president of everything, every institution, every institution of this culture, and that's a good thing. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0212par0028	I'll fix it from here.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0206par0029	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0212par0030	My teacher said the gendarme as an Italian word. In Latin, the French say "jandarmah" and the Italians say "carabinieri" (the French say "carabinieri").
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0213par0031	Gendarme Italian. Let's discuss it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0212par0032	But now he's confused the Italians with the French, Hajji, just for the record.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0213par0033	But it's definitely Italian, look, Lugate, let's discuss this.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0214par0034	Anyway, I'll take you outside, and you can discuss it there. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) Article 17 of Law 2803 has been changed as follows. Legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may be replaced or given no other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces will also be paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a position in the country. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can only be extended once in two months, if necessary. Those times separated from duty count as service." 53 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0215par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0214par0050	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0216par0051	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0214par0052	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0217par0054	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, on March 10, 1972, forty-three years ago, this Parliament made an important decision and sent three saplings to the gallows. On March 10, 1972, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey confirmed death sentences against Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan, and was sent to the gallows of 3 saplings in accordance with these decisions. The vote was held that day with 53 rejections, 6 abstentions, 238 acceptance votes. Mr. President, a decision made forty-three years ago today is spoken in Parliament and the position of the Parliament today is crucial to determine the situation in which voters who signed that decision on that day were present. The Parliament, which raised its hand on death sentences on that day, took the liberty of a Parliament today that allowed 77 million people to lose their basic rights and freedoms, human rights and democracy, and allow them to be passed through parliament. It is a great loss and a great loss. Forty-three years ago, Parliament approved a court decision. Today's Parliament is gathering to allow governors, law enforcement, to disarm, to kill, my dear friends, without a court order. It's impossible to accept. Where is Turkey going, my dear friends? There's been an eclipse. We all need to get our heads together. We are working here today with a law in Turkey which increases the powers already to governors, law enforcement. Today, in this Parliament, the removal of the police's power to use arms should be discussed, the removal of the governors' extraordinary state of affairs. We have to do this. We're narrowing democracy down to expanding freedom fields, evacuating it, and making Turkey an uninhabitable country. We have no right to do this, my dear friends, we have no right to do this. Let's tear up the dead soil above us, please. Remove custody. No matter how many obstacles the opposition makes to a president, this law will come out of the House. Even if it gives you custody, refuse it. Turkey needs this, Turkey needs an opening. Tomorrow, in a 40-year period, you will not be involved in such talks in Parliament. Anything that goes through here is very important. It's as if we're appointing a national training director, a deed manager, we're authorizing the Home Secretary to appoint the commander of the county police regiment, the commander of the garrison in the counties. My dear friends, just yesterday, the Undersecretary of MIT stepped down, resigned, became a member of the AKP, became a candidate.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0218par0058	He's not a member.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0217par0059	If he's not a member, he's desperate, and if he's not a member, he's worse. If he wasn't a member, how did he get nominated? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, he's a member, he's not a member. After all, I'm running for MP. Did he say that? He did. Did the Prime Minister wish you well? He did. Next thing you know, the President is against it, and you've got the Undersecretary of MIT, and you've reinstated him. Now...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0219par0061	There's freedom.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0217par0062	It's not about freedom, it's not about freedom. There's a sense of state that overturns all the rules of democracy. You'll all be under it. Look, we're warning you, it's all wrong, so avoid these mistakes. Let's get Turkey out of the wrong, dear friends. Please, get rid of a custody and shake it off. What should we do as opposition? We tell these things, we tell them politely, we tell them out loud, you don't understand, but the public will tell you that. All our people must know that on June 8th, in the Republican People's Party's Government, the internal security package that was intended to be passed through here will be thrown away, trashed.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0220par0063	Do you?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0217par0064	We'll throw it in the trash and free our people.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0220par0065	Do you believe the People's Party will come to power?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0221par0066	Way to go!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0217par0067	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0222par0069	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0223par0070	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0222par0071	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in Population Services; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for changes in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Human Rights Act; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Proposal; 2559 Constitutional's Proposal on the Laws and Laws of Law on Peace and Laws of Law on Human Rights; Articles of Humanity; The Law on Human Rights of Peace of Peace and Laws on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; Articles and Law on Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace and Law on Humanity of Human Law on Humanity; İstanbul (UNs) Articles Council of Human Law on Human Rights Council of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on HumanLaw ; İstanbul Councils of Human Law on Human Rights and Law on Human Law on Human Law( UN of HumanLaw ;Articles) "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces will also be paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a position in the country. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can only be extended once in two months, if necessary. Those periods of separation count as services. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends "MIDDE 53-2803 has been changed in the following way, along with the title of Article 17 of the Law. "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate, or to prosecute, to be acquitted, or to be dismissed, for whatever reason, and those convicted of a crime that would not prevent them from taking office according to the laws of the law will be paid for or paid for in any way. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces are also paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a staff at home. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can be extended once, not for more than two months in mandatory conditions. Those times separated from duty count as service." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0224par0089	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0222par0090	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0225par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0222par0092	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0226par0096	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 53 of Law Bill 684. I salute your high council. The 53rd article and the ongoing articles contain regulations concerning the gendarmes. Now, this bill -- the main reason -- is that the gendarme's civilization. Let me be frank with you, dear lawmakers: You have no intention of civilizing the gendarmes here or opening the way for democratisation. When we looked at the point where you came to power yesterday at the end of 2002, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erbakan, who stated that he had been doing politics at the bottom of the show for thirty years, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erbakan, and his companions, who had brought him the conditions of the day, we took off his national opinion shirt. When he said, "We are on a plane, he spoke of legal regulations, democratisations, but when he was captured by institutions and organizations, yesterday he became a victim of the press, every day when news came out about him and his traveling companions, he was troubled by the police, he was on fire from the police, the law. Yes, you're doing a similar thing yourself today that you were rightly screaming about yesterday. You're operating on media perception under heavier circumstances than February 28th. You're talking about civilization at this point today. You don't care about civilization, you don't care about democratization. How do we protect your power, the power you've been in for 13 years -- it's now over the mountains of fear -- whether it's illegal or not? Look at the essence of the laws that have come into your understanding, all of them, the changes you've made in the police, the cops you declared heroes yesterday, the prosecutors you called heroes yesterday, the prosecutors you've taken under Mercedes yesterday, the prosecutors today, and what's the main reason for this? The corruption of the 17th-25th century. You can ignore it today with your numerical majority, you may have been acquitted here with your appointed courts, but God knows and so does his servant, on December 17th and 25th, the property of the public was smoked. Whoever drank the property of this people will surely pay for it. Look, dear lawmakers, the existence of the state comes before everything else. You're destroying the government's institutions. If you destroy the state's institutions, you'll destroy the state. For our own interests, for our own futures, for our own fears, for our own concerns, or for someone to understand - you have no right to destroy the institutions of the state for their concerns. There are thousands of martyrs fighting in this state, thousands of people sweating, laboring. You take down the institutions, you take down the government. You need to see this. He just spoke of the dignity of the Mahir presidential presidency in the correction. Yes, in the Turkish state tradition, the presidency is a respectable institution, but in God's name -- one of your government officials, one of your AKP spokesman -- have you ever been in an institution where you should be neutral, where you should be neutral, where you should be neutral, not offending the dignity of the country? So a president will go on TV, do public politics, insult the leaders of opposition parties as much as possible, then he will speak of the dignity of the presidency. Yes, in the state tradition, the presidency is the office of dignity, but the person sitting in that chair first needs to protect and preserve it. Undersecretary of MIT... even if you find that politically correct, it's not morally correct. Yesterday on the news, the MIT is trying to stir up the inside of the National Movement Party. The MIT is operating on the National Movement Party. The news confirms its accuracy with appointments made today. MIT... if you make the National Intelligence Agency controversial, you'll make the future of the state questionable. And from that, our children will get hurt, the Turkish state will get hurt. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0227par0103	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions for the new clause, and I'm going to read the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Laws on Humanity Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal's Proposal for Adition of Information Act; İstanbul MP 2-4-4-4-4-4* The Proposal on Peace of the Law on the Law, 216/4th Amendments of the Law and 216th Amendments of the Constitutional Laws of the Constitution, 2-4-4/1. "The legal and financial consequences of suspension MADDE 17- Those suspended will be relieved of their duties. They may not be given any assignments or other assignments. Those suspended will be paid monthly in accordance with Article 141 of Act 657. However, they will be granted all kinds of non-payment or defamation rights that have been paid for by those who have been decided not to be allowed to investigate, to investigate or to prosecute, to be acquitted, to be dismissed or eliminated for whatever reason. Those suspended while serving abroad as part of the Turkish Armed Forces are also paid abroad on the basis of this joke until they are assigned to a staff at home. The suspension measures of those whose verbs, which seem to be relevant to the preliminary examination or investigation, may be removed without prejudice, if they are not prevented from continuing their services. The restraining order under this Law cannot exceed two months. This period can be extended once, not for more than two months in mandatory conditions. Those times separated from duty count as services." After Article 53 in the shape of Article 53, we propose that the following item be neglected and other substances be identified accordingly. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan "It is dated 54-10/3/1983 and issued in the First Amendment of Article 24 of Article 2803 of the Police Department's Duty and Authority Act "to follow the declaration of the Law...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0228par0119	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0227par0120	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Public Law and Laws and Law Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act; Law Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; Proposal for the Amendments in the Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Proposal; 2559 Vice of Law on Laws of Laws and Amendments of Laws and Laws of Laws of Humanity; Aditional Laws and Admissions of Laws under Articles of Humanity and Laws and Laws of Humanity; Aditional Laws under the Laws Act; Agreement of Humanity of Human Rights and Laws and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity (Secities).
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0229par0125	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0227par0126	He backed off. In Article 54 there are three motions, one of which is a violation of the Constitution, that I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendment in Population Services; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; Vice Minister of Law on Humanity Services; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Adition of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Alteration; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Proposal's Proposal; 2559 Vice Office on the Law on the Laws of Laws and the Law on Laws of Laws of Humanity; 5th Amendments under the Law and Law shall be made to be under the Constitution; 5th and 4th Amendment (UN). We propose and propose that Article 54 be changed as follows. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim İlk Bkent Belen "The statement of Article 54-2803 (b) of Article 25 (b) has been added to the subsection of the Law "inclusion of Disciplinary provisions" (inclusion of Article 5442) prior to the declaration of the Law on State Administration No.4." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Bigeli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Code of Law on Laws of Law and Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Change in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Population Services; Vice of Law on Laws of Laws and Amendments of Humanity; Vice Membership of Human Rights (Aditional Law on Laws of Peace and Laws on Information), İstanbul MP İs İs Kashdemir Kashdemirdemir Kasimdemirimimdemir's Proposalim (Proposal Law), İstanbul MP Mustafa Mustafa Mustafa Mustafa Sezululululululululululululululululululululululululu, İstanbul Mustafa Hil Kaplan's Law (Liment of Law) and Kos Law (Liation of the Law on the Law on the Law), İstanbul Commission on Humanitor of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; 254) and the Law (Se, 254) and the Law (Bi, 254) and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Public Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Public Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human and Law on Human Arts) and Law on Human Law and Law (B), İstanbul). 54 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ali Sarıbaş Tanju Özcan Ahmet Toptaş Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer The current motion is a amendment to the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and That Article 1 of the Constitution and Court of Law shall be removed from the bill due to the violation of the Constitution and Article 54 of the Constitution and Articles of the Law, against universal law norms and fundamental human rights and against the one-party-one-migration regime and beyond the police state. Pervin Buldan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0230par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0227par0154	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0231par0155	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0227par0156	Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0232par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's face it, our country doesn't have an internal security problem, but it does have a business security problem. Because he has this problem, and because it's not covered, your government has a new bag of laws on it, but this law is also expected from the workers because it's prepared with the same lame logic, but also to employers, those who cause these job killings, as usual, there are privileges, pardons. We'll discuss it when it's time, but look, the workers are still dying today. A worker died of a collapse in Zonguldak. In March -- we are not even in the middle of March -- the number of workers who died in construction and in mines has already exceeded 15. But interestingly, the Department of Labor inspectors are sitting in place. Don't go to them in a vague manner to inspect the materials, the constructions. It's called, it's expressed by business inspectors. Dear MPs, look, three hundred and one days have passed over Soma, 301 miners have been buried in the ground, and the government has made a lot of promises, the law has come out, so, there is no reading of the Somah Commission Report, but now the miners are resisting in front of TKI, and it's been a week. Why is he resisting? With unemployment, they were unable to translate their debts, the promises were not fulfilled, the severance checks, the notice compensations. Who are these workers dealing with, the Soma Holdings? Of course not. What was Soma Holding doing? HE was producing services for TKI. So the real employer, the real boss, the workers, is Tİ, who are standing in front of him in the snow, in the winter, in the cold, night and day, so that our voices can be heard from there. Now, the economic summit just ended. What they say is that our banks are solid, that they can withstand such shocks. They're prepared for the surges in Europe. Right, they're prepared because they're going to go on collecting dollars, collecting dollars from their depositors. They're going to increase their turnips. There's nothing going on with them. What's going on? Here's what happens to Soma-miners, Zonguldkan miners, workers who are fired every day for unionizing. That's what you need to be answered for. Unsubstantiated teachers await the appointment of embroidery teachers, 776, and two years of college graduates. Look, at the November 2014 appointment of this one thousandth, 770 people appointed, and they say to the government: "Let at least 20,000 pre-licenses be opened in April. " The temporary 3,500 workers working at the sugar mills ask, "Where is our staff?" Dear MPs, the workers at the Copperville Freedom Square in Bakırköy City Hall, organized workers at the BELEdiYE-İS Union, issued a press statement, and I was there today. What were they up to? The CHP's mayor and his team, who came to rule in the last March elections, first set eyes on the worker's bread, sweat, and low wages to implement austerity measures as if they had no job. A subcontractor, employee of a city-owned company; the municipality threw out its chief representative first, and here he threw out three workers... why? Because the worker wants the right to work, he says to correct the working conditions, but exile, mobing, threats, and the latest dismissal, but we know that what CHP uses most is the highest value. I would like to point out that my CHP deputy friends and the group administration will consider this issue. Copperville workers have been crying for a year. They face these treatments because they want organized, union and humanitarian work. So the boss's attitude, the employer's attitude, the subcontractor's attitude, that doesn't make any difference. This is the fucking, fucking face of capitalism that we're dealing with right here. When the esteemed MPs spoke of capitalism, crisis opportunism arose; and here he took the government behind him, and the strike of the metal workers was banned, and then the boss called the crisis, and put 34 workers in Eskişehir, and put the metal workers in the door. He'll come around. There's a boss class that doesn't even agree to collective contracts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, for him, not the national security of this country, but the right to the safety of workers, workers, to the organisation and to the struggle for labour is essentially on the agenda. I wanted to get your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0233par0167	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0234par0169	I'd like to give my opinion on what Levent Bey has expressed.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0233par0170	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0234par0173	Mr. President, I've been informed here when Peoples' Democratic Party MP Mr. Levent Tüzzel, who has just spoken about the problem that was caused by our party's mayor in the City of Copperville. Of course, labor is the highest value. As a member of a party that says, I care that such a matter should be raised from the Assembly's bench, and in this regard, I will take some information about our mayor and the union and the employees and assess the situation, and I will inform you that we are determined to continue our work in the future, and I will respectfully salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0235par0177	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0236par0181	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit09spe0235par0182	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0235par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel and his friends on Article 54 of the Law Bill No. 684 was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Bigeli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Code of Law on Laws and Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Change in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law on Humanity of Population Services; Vice of Humanity, Çanakkale MP İsem Kashdemirdemir's Proposal on the Amendment; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Constitution on the Law shall be made by the Law on the Laws Office of Humanity of Humanity and the Law on Humanity of Humanity of the Law (UNity). 54 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0237par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0235par0013	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Levent Gök, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0238par0017	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a concept in which the state is limited in historical development, where the rights and freedoms of the individual are protected. The state will not be protected against the individual, the individual will be protected against the state. The state can't enter the individual's field of rights and freedoms. From one of Turkey's most famous scientists, Mr. Professor Tarik Zafer is a French Constitution whose eyes are caught in a small book as he visited a museum in Paris many years ago. When the work looks a little further below, it freezes its blood: this book is covered with human skin. It describes the depth, length, length of freedom wars, and the cost of being free, so clear that the cost of living free is not free. These struggles have led us to the understanding of today's democracy. The goal is to accept that human beings have certain rights and freedoms with the honor of being human. There's a space in which a man can move freely. His rights did not give him power, but he had them because he was born human. The rulers must recognize these rights, protect them, and improve them. Fert fert, the common purpose of these mass revolutions has been brought together in these ideas. The kind of power that history offers us, kings, orders, sultans, they see the rights of citizens as a tip, a horizon. What do you mean, human rights? But people could have had the right to those rights as much as they did. People are servants, they have no right to claim rights. Their mission is to increase the greatness and power of power, that's all. That's the idea that's been fought. The goal of all revolutions is to break these authoritarian rules, to add new developments to the results achieved along the way. The struggle for freedom has pushed us to a long line of progress that has continued so far in human-skin constitutions. Mr. President, any admission you give in the internal security package will speed up the footsteps of Fascism, open the door of the police state in a terrible way; any admission you give will turn governor and property into a ruler; any admission you give will render the judicial mechanism out; any vote you give will be taken away; any vote you give will be removed from the person's freedom and security, turn the country into an empire of fear for the state's safety; with every admission you vote you give, detentions and arrests will turn into a raging wave, from one end of the non-democratic republic, and will be allowed to turn into a state-type republic of prisons; every vote you give up your vote, every vote will be removed, and every vote will become democratic, and every member of the police will be accepted, and every vote you will become a terror empire. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with every vote you give, it will be impossible to prosecute the officers who committed the crime. Mr. President, I would like to remind you that those who can give up freedom for a little bit of security deserve neither freedom nor security. But let my citizens not worry, we are from the Pir Sultan Abdal tradition. What says Pir Sultan: ▪ When the women, the mufti, write a fatwa, Here's the noose, if my neck hangs up. Here's the dagger. Here's my head. We come from a tradition that says, "Turner turns, I don't come back." I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0028	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0240par0030	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0031	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Can you count it?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0241par0034	Let's have an electronic vote.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0035	I'm voting electronically. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0242par0039	An MP stands up in the vote, shouts "Ret." Here the MP has an effect on his will. Let the lawmakers use their free will, anyone who wants to take it, refuse it, refuse it. What's in the Civil Code, Mr. President? Warn him. So who assigned Ramadan Can ▪, friends, and which group appointed the vice president? I mean, now, there's no strings attached in the Civil Code, which is how they used to scream.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0041	There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0242par0042	We don't know how many rejections, how many abstentions, how many admissions, Mr. President, we're being watched by the public on the Internet. Although the ruling party has shut down, our people are watching from the Internet.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0043	There were 177 rejections, and three compasses, and no one else got in, so no admissions, no access to the system.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0243par0044	Well, let's face it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0239par0045	Output, acceptance zero, rejection 177, abstention zero, total 177. [[Laughing from the lines of the AK PARTY]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments to the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Human Rights Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Order for Change in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's Proposal for Change in the Law; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Service Act; Çanakkale MP İsem Kashdemirimimimimimimimimimimimim's Propos; İstanbul's Propos for Al-Biation Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkululu and Koğalımımı; İstanbul's Office on the Law on the Law; İstanbul Council of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Humanment; İstanbul Council of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Human Laws Office of Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanments Laws Law on Human Laws Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws Offices Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul (UNe; İstanbul)
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0244par0050	Mr. President, we don't understand what's being read. Mr. President, we don't understand. Hold on a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0245par0051	He's a bit of a fast reader, Mr. Bayram, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0244par0052	We don't understand what's being said, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0246par0053	Mr. Bayram, slowly, please. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] The statement of Article 25 (b) of Article 25 (b) has been added before the declaration of "The State Administration Act 5442" on the condition that "Disciplin provisions remain hidden." We offer and propose that Article 54 be changed in the form of Article 54 as follows. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends The statement of Article 54-2803 (b) of Article 25 (b) has been added in Article 4 of Article 5442, including "Disciplinary provisions" prior to the declaration of State Administration Law 5442." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0247par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0246par0060	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk? Mr. Belen, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0248par0065	Mr. President, can I ask you something?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0246par0066	If Mr. Belen were to speak, we'd have brought him here now. Then I'll listen to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0249par0068	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party for Article 54 of the bill. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, before I begin my remarks -- yesterday, past midnight -- at around 5:15 p.m., I received a message from a Turkmen from Kerkuk, Northern Iraq, and I'd like to read it. The ear of the government who doesn't hear the Turkishman's voice may hear this cry. A Turkmen brother named Mohammed Faik is a brother of ours. Our pain is too great. Please listen to us. The PKK launched an attack on the Iraqi Turkmen Front this evening and burned the Turkmen flag at Kerkuk Kalas. Yeah, brother, we don't have ten working guns. We're drowning, there's nothing we can do. Please respond. Yes, my dear AKP MPs, my friends, the Turks are screaming, and unfortunately you can't hear. Yes, Mr. President, we continue to discuss the bill, which has occupied the country's agenda since February 19th, known publicly as the internal security package. As the National Party of Action, there are the articles that we are opposed to in the bill that we support and vote yes. For example, the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations shall include the 8th article on the punishment of those attending meetings and demonstrations, Molotov, iron marbles and slingshots, added to the 7th article of the bill, which forbids participation in meeting and demonstrations, other than this, the Anti-Terror Act on the fight against such materials, other than the organization and communities' clothing and the punishment of those attending the meetings and demonstrations, the article on the violations of the violence of Article 2911, and the article on the violations of the damages of the violence, and the article of the article of the article on which has been paid by those who have been responsible for the damages. However -17 December 25th -- Erdogan and his trustee Davutoglu have repeatedly accused the Nationalist Movement Party and Mr. President of the State Garden of resisting the ban on Molotovkotaki and bonzain in their programmes. It's all a lie, the Prime Minister and the President continue their lies and slanders to the face of the nation. What we object to is that the bill, in general, turns law enforcement forces into a door-to-door soldier of power. The Gendarme and Coast Guard Commands, which are concerned with the materials we're currently discussing, say they're being given control of power without considering their military duties, the hierarchy will be corrupted, and I wish you good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0250par0074	Thank you, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0249par0075	We've got enough to decide... III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0251par0078	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0252par0079	We've got a roll call. Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Vural, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Belen, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Irbeç, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Öz, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Adan, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Longsırmak and Mr. Torlak. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0253par0088	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0252par0089	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Dear Earth...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0254par0092	We've repeatedly warned our friend who reads these motions. You can't really understand what motion is being read. I mean, I can't help but wonder if he's entered the fastest motion-reading contest with someone. Secondly, look, when the motions were read before, who signed them, these signatures were read. ▪ His friends say so. For one thing, it's a shame to let those people sign as their friends. And thirdly, I'd like to know personally -- maybe even friends -- who signed these motions? I think it's our right.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0255par0095	Hodja, just a second. Now, like this: you warned him about fast reading, I warned him.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0254par0097	But how many times do we warn him?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0255par0098	I understand, but I warned him, so I'll be careful. But, now, the motions... there are three motions, three of them read once, all of which are said to be the signatures. Then, the second time the same motion is read, for a friend who will give a speech, for example, if you are to speak, the motion is called Mr. Binnaz Eylü, İstanbul MP and his friends. That's what it's been like until today, but if you want to, we'll have them all read together, like, the second time.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0256par0100	Let him read it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0257par0101	Yes, please let him read it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0258par0103	So let's know who to reject.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0257par0104	No, and there might be a signature that shouldn't be there in that motion, which we don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0259par0105	Now, Hajji, look, that last sentence didn't fit. What I'm trying to say is that until today, everyone...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0260par0106	Let's give it in writing, Hajji, it's written!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0259par0107	I mean, I've been acting Speaker since 2007, and it's gonna be the same thing before me and after me. Of course, because this law is perceived in a different way -- so by the opposition and by the power, both sides are looking separately -- so your request is beyond what has been implemented so far. All right, so I'm going to evaluate it, but I mean, I repeat, it's not the wrong thing to do. First, all the motions are read with their signatures, read for the second time, only the name of the friend who's going to speak there, but like I said. I mean, the procedure depends on it. No, the disbanding part is separate, so it's known to the group's vice presidents. So that's what's been done so far. Okay, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0261par0110	Okay.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0259par0111	So there's no irregularities there.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0262par0112	Sir, take a break for ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0259par0113	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read the first one: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In accordance with the 684 ranked Police Act and the Law of Law and Law, the draft of the Law shall be made to change the provisions of certain laws and laws.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0263par0117	Ha, bravo! [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] Istankale MP Mahmut Tanal's offer to change the Law on Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's proposal to change the Law on Population Services; Law Proposal on the Law on Population Services; Adana MP Ismail Kashdemir's proposal for Amendments in the Statement Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal and Koneeli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's proposal to change the Law on Population Services, 2559 Police Vazife and Salahyet Act; Law Proposal MP Osman Faruk Loğoğlu's Law; Proposal for Al-Secration, 2nd Amendments of the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal Kaplan's Law on Human Rights 2nd Amendment, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendments of the Constitutional Laws of the Constitutional MP, 2nd Amendment of the Constitution on the Constitutional Law, 2nd Amendments and 2nd Amendment, 2nd Amendments of the Constitution on the Constitutional of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitutional Law, 224/24/24/24/24/24/4 After Article 54 in the shape of Article 54, we offer and propose that the following item be neglected and other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Bkent Belen Seyfettin Yilmaz
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0264par0124	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0265par0125	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on Human Rights and Adness of Law on the Laws Law; The Law on Humanity Act on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Law and Agreement of Humanity of Laws and Agreement on the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanity of Humanment; The Law on Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Law and Laws Law on Humanment of Humanity; The Law on Human Law; The Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Human Law on Human Law on Humanity; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law on Human Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law and Law on Human Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Council of Humanment of Law on Human Rights and Law on Human Law on Human Rights Act on Human Laws Law and Law on Human Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul (Bs Offices Offices Offices Offices) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0266par0130	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0265par0131	He backed off. There are three amendments in Article 55, one of which is a violation of the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act on Humanity Services Acts, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and Agreement of Human Rights on the Law on Human Rights Act; The Law (AS/TK) "EK MADDE 1- The actions and actions of other MPs other than their military duties are supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors." We propose and propose that the 55th article, shaped like this, be changed in the following manner, as it would lead to politicalisation in the Armed Forces. Mehmet Erdoğan Mesut Dedeoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim İlk Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear "A further Article 1 of the Law No. 55-2803 has been changed as follows. "EK MADDE 1- The actions and procedures regarding the military's property duties are supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Council of Human Rights Law; 25599. "The additional Article 1 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "EK MADDE 1- The actions and actions of the gendarmes other than their military duties are inspected and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their superiors." 55 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer Tanju Özcan Ahmet Toptaş Ali Sarıbaş Ali Serindağ The current motion is the Constitutional Amendment motion, which I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the bill of the Act 55 shall be removed because of violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and that the bill shall be removed from the bill because of violation of the Constitution and Article 55 of the Constitution, since it has brought a change in certain provisions of the Law and Laws under the laws of the Law and the Law, beyond the 684 Police Law and the Constitution and its fundamental human rights of one party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and beyond the police state. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzel Demir Çelik Does the commission agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0267par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0265par0161	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erol Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0268par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 55 of Law Bill 684. I salute the General Assembly. In Article 55, the actions and procedures of the gendarmes other than their military duties will be supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors. What is intended to be done with this clause is a move that can be interpreted in relation to other substances, rather than redefining the duties of the gendarme, a law enforcement force of the AKP's power, on the basis of human rights and freedoms, by maintaining all of the powers of the gendarmes, into his own sovereignty. Dear MPs, neither the police in Turkey nor the gendarmes in Turkey have been the security force of the community. A security agency to protect the AKP's power is required to be designed in full and in accordance with this provision regarding the gendarmes. This bill is not just an attempt by the AKP's political power to narrow down social freedoms, suppress social opposition and increase the powers of law enforcement. This bill is also an effort to completely purge the judiciary, which is also one of the three important men. Mr. President, in front of the use of rights and freedoms in Turkey, there are several violations of rights, which stemming from implementation, and we must once again state that we consider it an embarrassing development of authoritarian, identifiable regulations that will further restrict the rights and freedoms of law enforcement and make legal basis for the arbitrary attitudes of law enforcement. Dear lawmakers, you know that Turkey is the highest violation of the contract in the European Court of Human Rights during the period until the Constitutional Court is granted an individual application. Turkey, again, is in the state with the most decisions against it, and is the state with the most pending cases. So Turkey is the country that cannot protect its citizens' rights and violates its citizens' rights the most. What it means to be given control and inspection of the gendarmes to the governors is that this community understands very well in its state of emergency. With this bill, each governor is granted powers that are not even in the governors of the state of emergency. Dear lawmakers, the main reason for the state's involvement in right violations is that, as is the case with this bill, unlimited and vague powers for public power users are not effectively prosecuted and punished by public officials who are involved in crimes. The 17500 unsolved murders took place at a time when governors, gendarmes, police, were equipped with unlimited powers. While the AKP's government boasts that it has lifted its extraordinary state of mind, it is further behind its extraordinary state practices. However, the members of the parties here know very well how extraordinary state practices traumatized this country, its citizens. Dear lawmakers are clear that in recent years the drafts and proposals submitted by the AKP government under the name of the Grand National Assembly have been indexed to the needs of power at the time and aimed at eliminating the freedom of opposition to the public, essentially devoiding the principles of judicial independence and the principles of separation of men altogether, as a result of the judiciary, living, and destroying the legitimacy of the system that already works as antidemocratic as it can. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the rhetoric and spirit of this bill, we can also see clearly what AKP has understood from the new Constitution, which is often expressed in the squares. We need to make it clear that what a political party understands from the concept of security, how it works to ensure security is actually the clearest expression of what that political mentality understands from democracy. The AKP understands security, it is the way to imprison society and see every citizen who has objections as a potential criminal. This bill is a product of intellectuals who want to build a power that can't tolerate opposition, just like the Treaty of Takriri Sükûn, 1925. In this context, the AKP has once again invited its government to follow the example of democratic regimes instead of following authoritarian regimes, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0269par0175	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0270par0176	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0269par0177	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "The additional Article 1 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "EK MADDE 1- The actions and actions of the gendarmes other than their military duties are inspected and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their superiors." 55 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0271par0186	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0269par0187	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Serindağ, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0272par0190	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0269par0191	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0272par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're slowly coming to the conclusion of the essentials of the bill. We've been trying to do our warnings all along. As we make these warnings, we think of you both, both our country and our country, for future generations. Now, if there's not enough reason, it's not right to change the established rules, but there may be a need to reform management at all times or at some time; that's what happened in the past, and there's been detailed work done for it. The most obvious example of this is the MEHTAP Report, followed by the KAYA Report, and the interior order work at the Ministry of Interior. My friends who served in the Ministry of Interior also remember this, so if a reform is needed in the administration, long-term work must be done, by taking the contributions of different actors, academic circles, and those involved in that service. Changing institutions in such a hurry, installing a different function or putting them in a different situation does not give us all positive results. Now, I sincerely ask you, why did this change in the police force have to happen? Has the gendarme not done his duty to this day, and have you heard of such a necessity? If there is such a thing, come out here and explain it, and we'll express our opinion. You're not saying anything, you're saying we're going to change it. So you don't have to change things to have a reason. What is it? I wonder if they're MIT trucks. Now, look, you're shutting down the General Command of the Gendarmes when they're appointed, replaced, disciplined, suspended from duty. If it were you, if you had a company, wouldn't you have the opinion of the head of that branch when you were hiring your company, or when you were transferring personnel from your firm's departments? I mean, you get it there, but why don't you get it from a whole government agency? My dear friends, this is so wrong, this is so wrong. You can save all kinds of money on the General Commander of the Gendarmes, but you have to belong to the General Command of the Gendarmes. Gendarme General Command, I keep telling you, is an integral part of the Turkish Armed Forces. Oh, yeah? That's what it says in the Agency's Law. Then change that judgment in the Agency's Law. Does he understand the General Staff's approval when a colonel is appointed to the Army Command or is appointed to a regiment commander? No, the force, in itself -- whatever force -- is making that appointment, it's disseminating. So, why are you following a different path in the gendarmes? Now, sir, for some reason other than military duties, they're being suspended from duty... so why would the governor or the governor suspend them on a matter of judicial duty? Is that a forensic mission? Does the gendarme have an estate mission? Does he have a judicial mission? Does he have a military mission? Now, can you associate the dismissal of a police officer or a police officer for a judicial mission with the law? Then what's he gonna do? So what do you do with a police officer who does his duty in accordance with the law, who does something you don't like? You'll suspend him, then you'll give him that job to whomever you want. Can that happen, guys? Look, we're warning you about this in good faith. We don't say it for ourselves, we don't say it for ourselves, but it's important for the future of our country. See, Turkey's historical heritage, security experience, economics, geopolitical, strategic, historical social and cultural features are useful to Turkey, a bilateral law enforcement system based on the unitary structure of the state and in parallel to this one. It also prevents the accumulation of power that is dangerous to democracies. Look, in democracies, the power buildup is very harmful, as it is now, as it is now. Therefore, I say we must preserve the bilateral law enforcement system and organize the gendarme according to it, with all due respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0273par0203	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0274par0206	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0273par0207	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Öner, Mr. Demirçı, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Günal, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Yüçük, Mr. Üçük, Mr. Seçer, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Susam, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Şüseksek. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act on Humanity Services Acts, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and Agreement of Human Rights on the Law on Human Rights Act; The Law (AS/TK) "EK MADDE 1- The actions and actions of other MPs other than their military duties are supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors." We propose and propose that the 55th article, shaped like this, be changed in the following manner, as it would lead to politicalisation in the Armed Forces. "A further Article 1 of the Law No. 55-2803 has been changed as follows. "EK MADDE 1- The actions and procedures regarding the military's property duties are supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors." Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0275par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0273par0225	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Nevzat Don't be afraid, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0276par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I'd like to share some numbers with you this time of night. From time to time, the Justice and Development Party uses the term "where do we go from 2002 to today?" Let's do that comparison, especially with crime and guilt. In 2002, killing was 2,934 in 2011, 3,484 in 2011, 6,534 in 2013; in 2002, there was no number in 2002; but in 2011, we had 828 in 2013, 4.143 in 2013; drugs in 2002, 3,450 in 2002, 4,131 in 2011, 11.851 in 2013; theft in 2002, 5,898 in 2002, 6,445 in 2011, 22.343 in 2013. In total, the number 14,888 in 2011 increases to 44,871 in 2013.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0277par0233	Including 17-25?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0276par0234	Scientists are making inquiries about people's criminal motives, and you can all pretty much estimate them. Especially in crimes such as stealing, looting, wounding, killing, drugs and smuggling, the main factor is poverty, poverty. In societies with human income and social security, we see that these crimes are close to zero. So if, as the prime minister, the President and AKP officials claim, the problem of overpowering and working during the AKP administration had been resolved, poverty had been eliminated, people's quality of life had been increased, and there had been more work done than in the 80-year-old republic, there would have been no increase in theft, looting, wounding, killing, drug trafficking, and trafficking crimes, the number of those who committed these crimes would have been reduced. Everyone knows that a person with a job, a steady income, and social security does not commit these crimes easily. We have done more work than we have done in the republic, we have fixed the economy, we have solved the problems of food and work, we have ended injustices and inequality, we have established a fair and equal order. Neither Erdoğan nor Davutoğlu is able to confirm it. On the contrary, the rise in crime rates during the AKP's ruling period shows that the country was not well managed by the AKP, and that an equal and fair government was not shown. Instead of dealing with these issues, how do I posit the police force of a hundred and seventy years, how do I turn the state's police into a party police, make it a police officer? We face a power in the effort. Not the state and the nation's police who enforce the law, but the AKP, who constantly look out for the ruling party's political interests. After stealing his people's money, he wants a cop who's gonna turn around while he's driving them home in trucks. He imagines a policeman who will not see any of the thefts and corruption committed by the government. A police officer who has been diagnosed in front of the MP's child of the ruling party wishes to be identified by the AKP. Peaceful demonstrations and protests, guaranteed by the constitution and laws, are only sought by a police force who considers it a right for those who are on the side of power. Not a cop who gives public confidence in his neutrality, honesty, and the effective fight against crime, but a cop who protects the interests of the ruling party and implements orders without questioning. As in the authoritarian regimes, the kind of revolutionary guard that only protects the interests of power, can't tolerate too much noise in society, and will act on the slogan of the Prime Minister. As of today, that's the essence of this bill we've been seeing for weeks, dear friends. I've just listed the reasons for our opposition, why we actually oppose it. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0278par0239	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0279par0240	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0278par0241	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Can you count it? I'm doing it on an electronic vote.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0280par0245	Just give me a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0278par0246	Two minutes, maybe a minute. So he's more valuable than you? Okay, just a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Now, I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions for the new clause, and I'm reading the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir) and İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law) on Laws and Laws and Laws (Islamic Laws) (Islamic Laws) (Islamic Laws and Laws) (Islamic Laws) (Islamic Laws) on the Laws (Islamic Law) (Islamic Law), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu (Is) and Al-Bi.E.E.E.E.P.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E. After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Ali Serindağ Binnaz Earth Izzet Cetin
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0281par0256	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0278par0257	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws of Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for the Law on Population Services Act; Law on Human Rights of Humanity and Amendments in the Law; İstanbul MP 2-4-4-4th Amendments in the Law of Human Rights and 2604th Amendments in the Law on the Law of Human Rights, 2-4-4th Amendments of the Constitutional Laws of Human Rights and 2nd Amendments of the Constitutional Law, 2th Amendments under the Law, 216th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendments, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendments, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, and 1/4/4/4th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Constitution, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment of the Law, 2th Amendment of the Constitution, 2th Amendment of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th Amendment, and "EK MADDE 1- The actions and actions of other MPs other than their military duties are supervised and inspected by the Ministry of Interior, governors and their own superiors." After Article 55 in the shape of Article 55, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan "It's 56-10/3/1983 of the Police Department 2803...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0282par0266	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit10spe0278par0267	He backed off. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0278par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, there are three proposals in Article 56, one contrary to the Constitution, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice Minister of Humanity Services, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law of Humanity Act; 2559th Amendments and Adition of the Law on the Law on the Law and Laws Act on Human Rights Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanity and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity; Agreement of Humanity of Humanity and Agreement of Humanity of Humanment of the Law on Humanity; Agreement of Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights and Agreement of Peace; The Law on Humanity of Humanity of Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights and Agreement of Human Rights (B). of Human Law on Human Law (Subs). "EK MADDE 2-Kil is being evaluated by the governor-in-chief and the governor-in-chief of the central district of Gendarme, and a report from the governor-in-chief of the district on other tasks other than military duties is being issued by the governor-in-law each year. Evaluation reports include promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports are organised by the regulation issued by the Ministry of Interior, with the opinion of the General Staff's office taken." We propose and propose that Article 56 in the form of Article 56 be changed as follows because it is an illegal arrangement. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar "A further Article 2 of the Law No. 56-2803 has been changed as follows. "EK MADDE 2-Kil is being evaluated by the governor-in-chief of the gendarme and the governor-in-chief of the central district, as well as by the governor-in-chief of the district of the district, and each year a report is being filed to assess the property duties of the people in question. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports are organised by the regulation issued by the Ministry of Interior, with the opinion of the General Staff's office taken." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "Addition 2 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "At the end of each year, the district governor's report on other tasks other than the military duties of those in question is issued by the governor's office. Evaluation reports include promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and structure of the evaluation reports are organised by the regulation issued by the Ministry of Interior, with the opinion of the General Staff's office taken." 56 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Haydar Öner Ali Sarıbaş Celal Dinçer The current motion is a amendment to the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and That the Act of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution shall be removed from the bill due to violation of the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and against the one-party-one-man-dictor regime and beyond the state of law and law enforcement, due to the fact that the Article 56 of the law shall be issued against the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzel Demir Çelik
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0038	I have a request, Mr. President, in order to proceed with the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0278par0039	Do you have a request for a statement according to 60?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0040	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0278par0041	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, it's two o'clock in the morning, two o'clock in the morning, and we're interviewing this package, security package over 24 hours. It's a coincidence, Mr. Secretary of State is here. We're in the process of joining the European Union. He knows about the contract, the ban on forced labor. It is in the 18th article of our Constitution. But it's not just the MPs and the bureaucrats, it's the commission. There's something in here that really needs to be taken care of by the human conscience. We have seven Kavas friends working here, seven friends, seven people. There are seven casts, and these seven are facing both power and opposition. It's just that if we don't have calluses on our conscience...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0284par0046	No way... no way...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0047	...if we haven't lost our compassion, from the teahouse to the diner, from the diner, from the driver to the staff of our group, all the employees of the service here, and the press workers, not only the photographers, are now watching from the press workers' rooms on the Internet as well. Now, what I'd like to call you right now... is that there are only seven limited cava officers in the General Assembly Hall... who are always up and running to us without sleeping. Do you ever pay attention to your eyes? Have you thought about what's open out there at this hour? (Applause from HDP and CHP) Hospital emergency services are open.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0285par0049	The outer door is also open, the outer door!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0050	The tripe halls are also open. Look, let me remind you of the tripe salons. The pavilions are open, and the bars are more open. Let me be clear, there are sectors running at this hour. Now, Congress, of course, will do the law, do the legislature, but we find a way of working in the slave system contrary to human dignity. Come on, we've passed ourselves by, do we have the right to these bureaucrats, servants, council personnel, stenographers... how long the stenographers work, don't we all see with our own eyes? Isn't that the Bureau of Records? I mean, here, I'm inviting a little, I'm actually inviting a little self-control, I'm inviting a conscience. Or is your Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0286par0052	Let's finish in an hour, in an hour...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0287par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0054	Mr. President, we didn't use all the obstructions in the matter of the Civil Code. We've read the obstructions in the Civil Code, we've worked like water, we know, and if we wanted to... we want to do it on a level. Otherwise, you'll find the surrender of the April 7th candidate list, with geneorization, general interviews, investigative motions, and I'll tell you the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0288par0055	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0056	And here, Mr. President, as the President's Court, you have to evaluate this to the Speaker of Parliament. With a style like this, with a study, people don't have to apply masochistic politics. He can apply it to himself, but he has no right to apply it to anyone else. What's his sin? If you love God, there are seven kavas on duty. If you need it, if you want to work hard, take 10 more; multiply stenographers; increase them one more time.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0289par0057	Don't block it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0058	So if we start asking for closed session now, a closed session, an open session; what are you going to do? Oh, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0289par0059	Don't block it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0060	Now, to keep everything on the level, I invite you to think clearly,
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0290par0061	We just had a fucking substance!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0283par0062	I invite you to be conscientious, and I invite you to be sensitive to other people's human rights. Mr. President, you have the credit. As for us, we maintain our rights as a result of the Civil Code. God forbid, let's see where it ends. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0291par0065	Bravo.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0292par0066	Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0293par0068	I was going to go there myself. Our colleagues here don't charge overtime, they don't work shifts, they don't have job security, so they don't have human rights, basic rights and freedoms. These friends of ours have to work at an inhuman pace. We're using our rights from the Civil Code, we're upholding our basic constitutional rights. So, as we continue this struggle, we are violating the rights of our fellow workers. It's a shame to work here without paying our friends overtime. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0292par0070	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0294par0072	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Hasip gave a very sensitive speech, and I totally agree. That's...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0295par0074	If you agree, then do what you have to do, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0296par0075	What insincereness!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0294par0076	Let me finish, let me finish. I wish Mr. Hasip had this conversation at 18 o'clock. If he had done it at 00, he would have translated our feelings. Mr. Hasip and his friends are well aware of the usual work of the House. Parties bring group proposals, normally 1700-17. There are about 30 laws passed and laws discussed. We're 23 to the law today. We passed at 100.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0297par0079	There was an election, an election.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0294par0080	Of course, reasonable, reasonable blockages are also used, as well as all the rights of the Civil Code, but, ultimately, Parliamentary laws are a structure for discussion. Therefore, to discuss these laws, it takes a conscientious, merciful, reasonable way to be part of that working order. Night, excuse me, 23. After preventing the meeting of the law from being discussed by friends in all sorts of ways, it is not right and legitimate to discuss a matter or two and then call people to conscience, to charity, and to object to the task.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0298par0082	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0294par0083	Because it's 23 o'clock at night. The group that listens to all kinds of obstructions up to 00, sees what they do here as a chore. If we say no to Angaria -- I'm telling our opinion -- we call it no. An English lord says that working is contrary to human nature. They say, "Why?," because he's tired. Indeed, working is contrary to human nature. The ancient Greeks didn't like to work.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0299par0085	Hajji, why do you always give examples of these Greeks, of the British? Give me one of ours.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0300par0086	You don't understand, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0294par0087	An Indian scholar also says that if a person works in a job he loves, he does not work for a lifetime. When we're negotiating the law, it's like we're working at a job we love, no chores, no burdens. I'm sure the opposition is at 23 p.m. When you're doing these blockages up to 100, you can't think of any trouble or burden. We're living in two different times here. Please, let's be understanding. I agree with Mr. Hasip, but by eleven o'clock at night, I wish Mr. Hasip would have given this speech in our name by the end of the day, at 2:00 a.m. He shouldn't have done it at 00. If we see the same view tomorrow, from Hasip Bey, around 6:00 p.m., what is this opposition doing? Why is power being put through this chore? We expect a sensitive speech. With all due respect...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0301par0090	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0302par0092	Mr. President, we have no problem working. Let's work, work till morning, do what our country's interests require. But it must be acknowledged that a ruling party must first seek a compromise on a matter that concerns basic rights and freedoms. Now, there are four different political parties here. Three of the four different political parties stand up to the ruling party's compulsion, for their own good reasons. This has to mean something, it has to be a warning mission. This is what happens when the ruling party is different in fundamental matters concerning fundamental rights and freedoms, and it takes no notice of the views of other opposition parties, and it becomes a challenge. We will, of course, use our rights from the Civil Code and make a resistance to these antidemocratic provisions, antidemocratic laws, imposed upon them in the name of the welfare of our country. What could be more natural than that? It's the ruling party that he needs to learn from. We have no doubts about ourselves, but it is our duty to observe the rights and laws of the other members of the House who work here. I mean, it's a shame for our friends, it's a sin. So because a president asked for a ruling group under the President's care, the staff working here until morning cannot be convicted, and it is our duty to protect their law. In the first place, if the ruling party wants to take power, it has to maintain everyone's integrity, order. In the meantime, I think you have a job to do, in which case you need to exercise your presidential authority. I mean, it's a shame for our friends, Mr. President. So these friends of ours don't need rest? They've been writing for hours, friends who work outside, so we're not gonna give them a chance? Let's work, if you have friends, spares, other employees, but when I look at the case in terms of human rights, it's our job to protect the law of our friends. We work until morning, we work the next day, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in as Republican People's Party, but it's our duty to protect the law of other friends, Mr. President. If you'd like to take a break, we'll talk about it, we'll assess it, but these methods of work have become unbearable for our friends, and I'm putting it on your attention.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0303par0097	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0304par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, together in good works, we have to work together. Clearly, the main reason for our opposition here is that we will, of course, use this will on behalf of the nation against the truly arbitrary attitude to restrict the sovereignty of the nation, which is the cause of this Parliament's existence, which is a direct limitation to the fundamental rights and freedoms of our legal state and citizens -- which are intended by the bureaucratic oligarchy. The Justice and Development Party may object to this, but we've said several times, Mr. President: We're coming to the 25th term, and most of the MPs here probably have a theme check and other jobs. The whole thing knows how many percentages of lawmakers have changed, but it's not even right for the MPs to use such an environment in an environment where they can choose or be elected. So, first of all, it is the executive who imposes on this subject, and no one in the palace has the right to instruct Parliament. This Parliament doesn't take orders from anyone, no matter what party, it's a shame, it's a sin. He may have picked his own party, but it's disrespectful to even make lawmakers here feel like he's acting on his orders. In that regard, it falls to those who live at certain peaks, as it falls to us to maintain the dignity of this Parliament. It is also not right to establish an opinion that Parliament is under pressure under such a guardianship, that it will come out under orders from the outside. In this Parliament, the Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, the Civil Law, 2,500-3. We've all spent a thousand things together, we've done these things. Now that we've been up and about all of this, and we've expressed our search for compromises about these things, look, they're going to get stuck, let's agree on good things, let's not bring polarization to Parliament. We've said that over and over again, these proposals have been rejected. Now, there's always the law in the bag. Such coercion in this regard to parliament is intended to exploit the situation of lawmakers in such an environment. The Justice and Development Party may have a will to do so. Mr. President, we ask that you do not hesitate to use the resources provided by the Civil Code on this matter. We, the National Movement Party Group, are the ones who cut off our rights here, the number of decisions, the number of people who ignored our request for roll call, and the rights from this Civil Code against those who have denied them without any evidence. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0305par0105	The imposition is to prevent law enforcement, Mr. President. They're the ones who keep the law from working.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0306par0106	Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0307par0108	Mr. President, thank you. Someone asked Socrates if he had passed through three filters. One of them is the truth filter: do you believe that what you're about to say is true? The second filter is a good filter: are you really going to say good things? The third filter filter is the benefit filter: do you have any use for society, for people? It's a law that's not passed through all three filters, it's a law that's not for the good of the nation, it's a law that the nation doesn't demand. It's true, it's a time when a law is imposed that's not good or useful. We expect the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to uphold the law of lawmakers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is also up to parliament to uphold the law of not only lawmakers, stenographers, kavases, cooks, waiters, policemen and other officers.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0308par0114	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0309par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to ask the government members, Mr. Minister and the duty minister a question: today, an extended economic summit has been held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, which lasted eight hours, which was very important. There's been an explanation just now. In this statement, the Central Bank's law states that it has vehicle independence and that it can act more independently from now on due to past experiences. It's -- you know, the exchange has peaked again today -- does that mean the government pressure will be lifted on interest from now on? The markets are looking forward to it. We'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary or the minister on duty could give us a little more detail. It's a very important matter. More detailed explanations, aside from this official statement, markets...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0310par0119	Where's that in the Civil Code, Mayor?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0311par0120	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0312par0122	Mr. President, in no country in the world has such a working order, there is no worker, there is no officer. During a normal day, there is an eight-hour working period, and in terms of working shifts, workers have four hours of overtime, except for these eight hours, and other than that, all other studies are against human rights. You have to think of it as a move against labor. Again, even if we're working shifts, during this shift -- and I've just mentioned -- a meal break is an hour, and at least two coffees and tea breaks. You're taking a break from this when there's not enough decision-making, when there's enough roll call, but I don't think that's the right way to do it. If they really, really want to work, they sit, they talk, and everyone agrees together.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0313par0123	Mr. President, is there such a thing in the Civil Code? Are we asking questions?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0311par0124	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0314par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not only legislature, but also audits. For one thing, ignoring a number of activities outside the law is denying the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Two: Our friends speak so philosophically that they read from the Quran, but do so according to other books. And that's a very wrong, very shameful thing, so it's a sign of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0315par0129	Mr. President, let him correct his speech, what does he mean?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0316par0130	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0317par0131	Mr. President, is this the right speech?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0318par0132	At the same time, if they're talking so philosophically, I'm giving them a piece of advice.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0319par0133	Mr. President, how could you allow such a conversation?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0320par0134	He's doing it from another book. He says, could it be?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0319par0135	How could you allow such a turn-on?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0321par0136	Is that a conversation?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0322par0137	And Hitler says, "Well, it's a free business." Do they believe in that philosophy? Working frees you. So, in the past, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has done such long-term work at these particular times, long-time studies, but these long-time studies have not coincided with a month or two months. There may be a short-term long-term study for some urgent laws, but it won't last that long.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0323par0138	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0324par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the same for you, I don't know how you see yourself, how it takes a lot of effort to actually run a meeting for 14 hours. In fact, you need to intervene in this situation. Now, of course, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can work for a long time from time to time. As Mr. Tallimak just said, it can't happen for months, not days, it can happen one day, it can happen two days. Now, everyone's against this bill, not just us. Look, Adam is a scientist whose opinion is valued by the ruling of the so-called Justice and Development Party. With him, there is a consensus that many scientists have jointly drawn up, which I believe has been passed on to lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party. So, now, if every part of society is against it, if they're against it, if the relevant units are against it, and if the reorganised institutions are against it, I think the Justice and Development Party should consider it, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0325par0144	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0326par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not normal for human shame to impose conditions on this Parliament. Under abnormal circumstances, normal work is not possible. A High Assembly that can't defend its rights can never defend the people's rights.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0327par0148	It's not about not working, Mr. President, it's about not getting the law out, it's about being clear.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0326par0149	It is indeed a shame that a Minister of the Interior, who states that he does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, has imposed a law on him that this great Assembly is trying to pass without seeking reconciliation from here. I invite my friends, who are trying to pass the law here while the Reverend lies in bed today, to do the legislature and control. No one here is the commander of the government. Every day for three weeks, 15 or 16 hours, so double shifts a day... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we can't be a mob team, we won't be; I invite you to resist. I don't give my blessing to the Minister who doesn't recognize this Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0328par0153	People don't approve of you either.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0329par0154	Dear Earth...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0330par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, what I've observed in the AKP authorities is that, just like Mr. Naci Bostanci, they're quietly saying things like they're talking so rationally, they're actually twisting the issue they want to deal with or the issue they want to lead. Now, Mr. Naci gave an example of an English lord, sir, that people are lazy, they don't want to work. For one thing, there's a lot written about why people are different from other animals, and Mr. Naci knows them very well. He insults everyone here, not them, but a lord whose name is unknown, until the morning, the eight and a half...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0331par0160	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0332par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0331par0162	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0332par0163	I have a very clear request.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0333par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0331par0165	I'm going to invite the members of the group now, but the 60th article has been asked, and I'm giving them to you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0334par0166	Why are you inviting me, Mr. President? Let's move on.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0167	Yeah, just promise...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0331par0168	But now we're open. I've just opened Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0169	I have a request in connection with this. According to the Civil Charter, Parliament is no place to sleep.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0336par0170	Throw out the sleeping ones.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0337par0171	Who's sleeping?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0172	The ruling party MPs are all asleep. Please take out the sleepers.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0337par0173	Why are you lying? Where is he, sleeping?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0338par0174	Please throw out those who are sleeping in the back.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0175	They're sleeping, so they're sleeping.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0337par0176	What a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0177	This isn't a hotel, it's Parliament. If it's a hotel, call it a hotel. According to the Civil Code, is there or is there no place to sit here? He's in the House, sir. He's in power.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0339par0178	Mr. President, all this talk has only one purpose, and it's a violation of the law.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0340par0179	Of course we will.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0180	This can't happen now. No sleeping in the Civil Code. Get him out of here.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0339par0181	Tiredness is an excuse, they don't want to work, that's the point. This Congress has worked until morning before, it will work again.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0335par0182	They're lying open, take them out.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0341par0183	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0342par0184	Mr. President, let's work. Use your authority. It doesn't matter.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0343par0185	You shouldn't allow this abuse, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0344par0187	Mr. President, friends... Mr. President, if he's quiet, let me talk to him. My dear President...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0345par0190	It's been decided until it's completed. Use your authority from the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0346par0191	Friends, is Congress a sleeping place?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0347par0192	Mr. Öğün, I've opened it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0193	Okay. Mr. President, friends, the Erzurumians know. The Karsians used to stop buses in Erzurum, on their way to Istanbul...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0349par0195	Who's stopping it? Who's stopping it? Fear God.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0197	They were saying, "Read Elham." Yeah, one thing...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0350par0199	Loud and clear.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0200	Is it open? It's not open. Do you copy?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0350par0201	Mr. Reminder, it's clear.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0202	They say, Adnan, read a parable. We were reading it. The reader was saying: 'Come, brother, and ask him, is he reading this truth?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0351par0203	Don't act. And you're a pilgrim.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0204	Now look, what happened? When the gate of Georgia opened, the Erzurumites had to cross the Kars, and go to Georgia. The Karsians also stopped Erzurum and said, "Are you Muslims?" They said, "We are Muslims." They said, "We pray five times.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0352par0205	Come on the agenda, Mr. President. What in God's name is this?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0348par0206	He said, "Have we ever wronged you like this?" Why are you asking about the scripture? You're really being cruel to us, my friends. I swear you're being cruel. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So for him, eliminate this tyranny. It's against human rights. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0353par0210	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0212	Thank you. My dear friends, I'm surprised that Mr. Bostanci hasn't seen the session since this morning. So it's 23 o'clock. He says he started at 00. He says it's Tuesday, Mr. Bostancı, General Assembly 15. It started at 00, and I think there's a choice.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0355par0214	The election took half an hour.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0215	You couldn't follow them, they're all legislators.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0356par0216	Legislature, making choices?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0217	So, research proposals are also legislatures, and elections are legislatures. You probably can't fully grasp those parts because you're new, or you're constantly having shift changes.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0357par0218	We're aware, we're aware, we're aware of everything.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0219	So if you continue to see them as a chore if you continue to see them as what Mr. Erdogan called it, then the Civil Law will be applied, as the Prime Minister puts it.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0358par0220	People are going to ask you what it's like to be a chore on June 7th, and people are going to show you how it's done.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0221	Now, I'm asking you, we'll continue at this hour: Mr. President, tomorrow the President of the Commission calls us to a pre-interview meeting, and the next day there's another bag.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0359par0223	Mr. President, can we get on with this?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0354par0224	On the one hand, when we meet here, how are we going to evaluate this bag, how are we going to lie down in the morning and come back?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0360par0225	No one forced you here, you're running; you're going to get up, you're going to come here, you're going to work here; you're not going to run if you don't want to.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0361par0226	Mr. Korkmaz... Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0362par0228	Mr. President, there's a Civil Code, but it's the Civil Code, which reads a yellow pamphlet in front of me right now, but it's in the form of a pamphlet that everyone interprets on their own, which is never implemented.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0363par0229	Nice catch on the back of the HDP, huh? You're all caught up in the back of the Hasip Bey. Congratulations.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0364par0230	Oh, we're stuck, we've learned from you, Recep, we've learned from you, Recep.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0362par0231	We're witnessing an unprecedented Parliamentary work in the world. I'm not just saying it's democratic to protect your own law, I'm saying it to our fellow lawmakers, especially the ruling party.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0363par0232	Well done, Mr. Hasip. He's taking all of you behind him.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0364par0233	We learned from you. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0363par0234	It never occurred to you, did it, Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0365par0235	Learn something better from us.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0364par0236	You always do bad, so bravo, you admit it, you mean bad.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0366par0237	Now, Mr. Bostanci 23. If he does not refer to the work done up to 00, then he does not respect the law of the opposition. Besides, everyone knows that such long studies lead to fatigues, then tensions, then fights.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0367par0239	Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0368par0241	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0369par0242	Mr. President, let's get out of here. How many hours will it take?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0367par0243	Now that it's over, there's two of you, and then I'm gonna call in the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0368par0244	Mr. President, we've been...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0370par0245	So did I, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0367par0246	I didn't object to them, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0370par0247	The congressman has a say, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0371par0248	May I continue, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0367par0249	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0371par0250	In recent days, the President has explained the reason why interest is not reduced in the Republic of Turkey by treason.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0372par0251	He's right.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0371par0252	There was an economic meeting today. Nothing's been explained about this yet. As the main opposition, we are now wondering, is the president of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey a traitor or not? Did we entrust the country's money to a traitor, or is he an honest bureaucrat who's trying to do his job running this bank right now? We'd like a statement from Mr. Secretary on this matter.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0373par0253	Mr. Ugly...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0374par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, at this time of night, there's one with sugar, one with blood pressure, one with a heart. I mean, a doctor wouldn't have a working system like this.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0375par0257	If you're sick, let's go to the doctor.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0374par0258	Wait a minute, bro, we're talking. We've got something to say. You do the talking, too. Now, Mr. President has actually insulted this Parliament with his assessment of the release of this law. Your friends in the ruling party's ranks naturally express this to Mr. President -- they have a loyalty debt, and they can digest it, but we're opposition MPs, and we don't say, "Thank you, Lord, thank you." I mean, the dignity of this House, the dignity of this country, we said, it's past the Thai Parliament, it's out of dignity.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0376par0260	Thanks to you...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0374par0261	Please, let's be careful. This House doesn't work until now.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0377par0263	Mr. Poyraz...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0378par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been listening to our opposition congressman friends for days, not minutes, not hours.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0379par0267	You talk, we'll listen.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0378par0268	So, when we look at the distribution of the MP using the chair, using the microphone, it's possible that 99 percent of the time was used by our opposition MP friends.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0380par0269	Use it. Is there an obstacle? Didn't you ask for it?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0379par0270	Who's closing their mouth? Take your word for it, talk.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0378par0271	We agree on a point, but on one hand, we use the bench, abuse all the rights of the Civil Code, and on the other hand, how they complain, and we all look at you as if you're confused. People are watching, people are watching.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0381par0273	How many times has this Fahrettin been on the stand?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0378par0274	People are watching, too, guys. Go out and look at the public, at least 75 percent of our citizens want the law, 80.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0381par0275	How many times has this citizen been on the stand? How long has he been a congressman?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0382par0276	Mr. President, the Court is asleep, and it's not working.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0383par0277	No, no, the Court isn't sleeping. He's reading something, don't be unfair to him.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0384par0278	Guys, you're trying to block one side, and you're complaining the other side. You're contradicting yourself...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0385par0280	How many times have you been on the stand? You've been a congressman for three semesters. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0386par0281	Shame on you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0385par0282	Shame, you've been a congressman for three semesters, how many times have you been on the stand?
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0387par0283	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0388par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, we are conducting a study here that will undermine the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We actually have a lot of fellow doctors in the Justice and Development Party. I mean, people really have a biological rhythm. This way of working is disrupting everyone's biological rhythm. Here we come at the final time when Parliament will be closed, naturally, we have to say the very different things that perhaps we should not say from our mouths, hurting each other in a way that would hurt each other. For him, this is not the right way to work; this is where we conduct a study that goes against the human body, the biological rhythm, the human anatomy. I'm not particularly interested in...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0387par0288	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0389par0290	Mr. President, it's been over three weeks, and we're working to legislate the bill, whose short name is the internal security package, and we're going to our constituency districts this weekend. We have an impression that our citizens expect this law to be passed at once. (CHP, MHP and HDP rows) While we were coming here, as elected deputies, we all knew the conditions for working in this period and in previous times. By the morning of the night, we also knew the working conditions of lawmakers before us, and we came here knowing it. No stopping, keep working.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0390par0291	Keep it coming, keep it coming!
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0391par0292	We'll continue, Mr. President, we'll continue to work.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0392par0293	Dear Honey...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0393par0295	Mr. President, the AKP MP who just spoke is looking forward to the adoption of this law. I'm surprised he's looking for four-eyed citizens, probably from a different citizen's point of view. But the truth and the truth are...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0394par0296	21 million, 500,000 four-eyed citizens are voting for the EC PARTY, Mr. Bal. 21 million, 500 grand, that's the number you wouldn't dream of.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0393par0297	All military, intelligence and political operations are carried out at night. The AKP will also use the right of opposition parties to block the balance and control framework of the Civil Charter and will destroy their freedoms against the citizens and carry their sneaky plan by this late at night. Please, a bit of a day pass to this bill on the freedom of a citizen...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0395par0299	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0396par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, friends from the ruling party have considered our speech an abuse of rights. That's not fair, so the MPs in this House are using this bench to speak for the nation, so it's not really an MP's place to consider it an abuse of rights. Second, it occurred to our friend that such a law that would destroy citizens' rights and freedom was looked forward to by citizens at this time of night alone. You see, Mr. President, right now you're running the House, this great Parliament, and friends are sleeping in the back. So under these conditions, there's no law, there's no law here, and the reputation of Parliament has been undermined by these sleeping friends. So it's no longer a working environment, so I'd like you to take a break. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0397par0305	Now, let's see if these 60th articles run out. Mr. Scholar...
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0398par0308	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, in Article 54 of the law we have discussed, the opposition party's motion, which states that despite the fact that the opposition party's spokesman has been on the stand and has defended their motions, the vote results in 177 rejections, 0 acceptance votes. This shows the seriousness of the opposition. We seriously recommend that the opposition act in a manner worthy of the honor of the House and take his work seriously. We leave that to our nation's discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-10sit11spe0399par0311	I'm inviting our group presidents to the rear, and I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
