tbmm-2015-01-15sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] The meeting's not enough, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Ali Sarıbaş, a member of the Çanakkale MP who wants to talk about the issues of the province of Çanakkale. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you today about my dear citizens, who listen to us at the beginning of television, and one of the most important cities in the world, Çanakkale. Çanakkale, in fact, has a beauty with its throat, its two islands, and its peninsula, which is really not in any province and is not in the world, but I see that it's surrounded by the sea on both sides and on three sides of it, and it's also one of the most troubled states, although it's rich in the Kaz Mountains and its endemic structures in the mountain, and I want to talk about it as a province with a lot of problems. Look, it actually looks like the easiest place to get access to on the map. But let's look at the transportation problem of Çanakkale: the roads are never finished. The region of the Izmir connection continues, starting with Edremit, until Gallipoli. Its connection to Çanakkale has not yet been completed. This route, which has been going on for 18 or 20 years, has not been completed in the 13-year period of AKP, and has not yet been completed, has not yet been completed in these ways -- the bell-chankale, the bell-biga, and the Bajramic-Than routes, which are also linked to Ezine. However, more than 80 percent of the village roads have not been asphalted. Now, on the one hand, there was a sea transport that was constantly carrying passengers to Istanbul, to the Black Sea, to the islands, even in the 1960s, to the 1970s, but not to this day, in 13 years, after privatisations, this was destroyed, and there was no sea transport. Let's get to air transport. You know, we have two airports in air transport, but we still can't land our planes in air conditions, although a new one -- the central one -- is wrong, but the ongoing investment -- is still not fully completed with the above-ground services between our planes here. There's a railroad up to Bandirma, but even though our port was finished at Bandirma, even though it had been opened outside for a very short time, while there was a public transport and was able to be brought in, including the fast train, although we've been saying this for thirteen years, and it still hasn't been resolved, even though we've been told this will be done. Very valuable MPs, let alone investments, the construction of dams in State Waters, the dams that were laid in 1991, 1994, are still unfinished, like our large dams in Tatonoluk and other large dams. Again, you know what I think is one of the most important things? These investments are okay, they didn't get an investment share, all good, but in the time when AKP made the fastest investments, three of our district managers have been shut down. Maritime Undersecretary Çanakkale Regional Directorate has been shut down. Now, why are you covering this in the most troubled place in the world, where there's a transitional advantage, where there's a throat? You shut down the forest office in a forested area of 53 percent and brought it here at a time when the fires were growing, connecting it to Balıkesir. Again, with regard to its history and one of the most important places in Turkey, you tried to evacuate Çanakkale by shutting down the Foundations Regional Directorship in our region. You can't punish this. Gold searches in the Kaz Mountains, coals from the outside, building 15 thermal plants and destroying tourism as much as possible, destroying the university's bad governance as possible, and destroying Turkey's lootings with gold bracelets, all of Istanbul's lootings, and moving all of its leftovers to Çanakkale. My dear friends, every election is built before the throat bridge, every election ends after the election, but I see you've made the bridge of the throat again, but I know nothing will happen until the election. By continuing to carry on these promises, the people of Çanakkale... For him, the AKP has made these problems a problem and has not solved them in that sense.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Iltüş, who asked for a statement on the move to Kütahya County Special Administration. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and our fellow citizens who follow us. Despite all our objections and warnings, a major operation in the province of Kütahya was carried out in June 2013, in exchange for the privatisation of the Seyitömer thermal plant (SLI) and its privatisation, together and as a whole, for only a few years' profit. The fact that the companies mentioned in this sale were excluded from the privatisation of the housing and social facilities in the district of Kütahya and other moving sites has been a part of a source of comfort for the Kütahians, leaving them on EUAS, which is part of the Ministry of Energy and Resources. However, soon after, buildings over 20 acres of SLI housing and social facilities in Kütahya Yıldırım Akıt neighborhood have been reportedly destroyed and the land will be used by the Ministry of National Education to build a school. This decision was also favoured by the Kütahians. The Kütahya, which belonged to EÜSK, was established in the August 30 district of August 30, and was the site of some 50-acre sites called 209 homes and social facilities, which included nearly 50-acre sites, and in relation to the non-moving sites mentioned in the media, has also revealed why some AKP politicians are being kept outside the scope of the specialisation of the impositions mentioned in October-November 2014, among the executives of Kütahya Governor and TÜRGEV, as well as the records of secret talks on these negotiations. In its transcripts and transcripts of the indictment "TÜRTEV fezlekesi" prepared by the chief prosecutors of the Republic, the Governor of Kutahya, the president of the AKP County and AKP General Assembly of the AKP, by the President of the State of Turkey and the President of the AKP, the Prime Minister of Turkey and the Prime Minister of Turkey and the Prime Minister of Turkey and the Social Institutions, have been invited to Kütahya for the sighting of an estimated 50-acre plot of land, which the TürGEV authorities have seen and approved in place of this challenge, and that the Prime Minister of Turkey will be given a recommendation by the Prime Minister of the Commission, as follows a posting of the posting of the posting of the posting of an indictment, which is to be approved by ÜRGEV authorities in order to be given to be given a special position for the posting of the posting of the posting of the ÜTütahyatahyatahyatahya. In response, the issue was moved from our side to the agenda of the House, with motions, but no response was received. Following that, the process of prosecution has been initiated by those who have earned political, administrative and economic benefits in exchange for the forgiveness of those in Kütahya, which belongs to EUAS, and are now in the process of prosecution. The judicial process on this issue continued, with the intervening of corruption and bribery cases from December 17th to 25th, and the process of resurgence of the incumbents was continued, and the transfer of the cabinet's Council of Ministers, dated 22/9/2014, to the Special Administration of Kütahya, along with a total of 70 acres of the SLI and Termic Site lojms. This has been made public by the Governor of Kütahya with a press release from the official website of the province's private administration. Now it's time for the transfer of the premises to TERGEV. Once again, he warns all officials here to break down this dirty game, demanding that all kinds of work be done by us and those concerned to be used only in accordance with the needs of Kütahya. I offer you respect once again by sharing this matter with you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0005par0040	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from Kars MP Birtane, who wants to speak about the problems of Kars Province. Here you go, Mr. Birtane.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to pass on the problems of Kars Province. I salute you and all of our people who are watching us on the screens. A realistic step has not been taken about the problems I've brought to Parliament about my constituency of Kars province, about its solutions. However, it is inevitable to look for a common solution by carrying it on the agenda of parliament, to be sensitive to all of Turkey's problems, especially your own constituency, to look for the difference in opposition or to become a ruling MP. Sadly, there was no lasting and visible solution to the problems we carried during the 24th century. Hopes for a solution to the public's problems are becoming less and less. The children's future is dark. Daughters get married at 14, 15 years old. They can't read. The central population is 77,000. Most people live in villages. Shopkeepers in the city, citizens in the villages. No jobs, kids in coffee corners. The province is about a hundred or two hundred years behind the European province of Turkey, in a socioeconomic sense. Mezlü and Halefoglu villages have been in the press over and over with water problems, and in most villages it is the same. If the government can't provide us with drinking water as the world goes into space, then it has no power to provide drinking water for a village, says the villagers. There's no clean and uninterrupted drinking water in the county center.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0007par0052	Mr. Secretary, he's talking about water.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0006par0053	The water problem, which has existed since the AKP ruling era, is also under the MHP municipality period. The central villages, Digor, Sarıkamish, Kezman, Selim, Akyaka, Susuz, Arpachay, there are no infrastructures in any of the villages. The price of electricity used for water wells is taken from the villagers. As a result of the privatisation of TEDAS, Aras took over the electricity distribution business in Kars. It's not acceptable for the government to take my money from you, and you to cut the electricity from the citizen, or to perform it? The only thing that needs to be done now is to clear the debt of the peasant and the poor people. He's a long way behind in the field of health. A new obstetrics and children's hospital will be launched, and the Karsians will be released from the old abandoned hospital, while a new building with a smaller capacity has just been moved to close down the state hospital that was opened seven years ago. It's been difficult to get to a hospital that's far from downtown. The problems that exist are added to the problems of citizens who make a living by filling up. The Kafkas University Hospital serves as a public hospital because there is no budget for the modern medical equipment needed by the university hospital. There has been no arrangement in the field of education in Kars. Teachers who are temporarily assigned are often replaced. Schools have a lot of electricity, water and heating problems. Village schools are still heated with turd stoves. Most village schools serve as the first level. The chances of going to high school are extremely difficult. There's no electricity, no water, no roads, but as in every county, there's a lot of pressure and detention. Several homes have been raided in the district and the district after support actions against Kobane. The students of the University of Caucasus were under constant surveillance and 14 students were sentenced to a total of 15 years in a case that ended in the last days of 2014. Troubles continue in the area of livestock, which is the province's only livelihood. Animal prices dropped by importing meat. Prices of diesel, seed, bait and other input have increased by 500 per cent in four years. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have not been able to solve the problem of air pollution, garbage and transportation in Montenegro neighborhood. There's no area of business in the county. It's only a matter of time before the sugar factory closes. The problems of the organized industrial zone continue. From here I speak to the government: Turn and look at a Kars. He says, "Look at the state of the people, and I respect all of you."
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0008par0064	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. Before I go on the agenda, I will make a promise to my ten friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0009par0069	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to address the government. I'd like to ask the people to give birth to three children, five children. When you say, "Do you want to kill these children?" At the age of 12, Nihat Kazanhan himself was killed by police shooting. Seven children have died in Cizre in the last week. Cizre has returned to the children's graveyard. The children have testimony, and when we made the sign of victory, while we sat on the hill, the police fired a gas flare directly, and then scanned us. They say, "The Home Secretary of Interior has certainly not fired a shot." See, today's young people, the inhabitants of Cizre, say that in the 90s, the white Toros roamed around, and now our lives are being taken with scorpions without plates. The state must reveal them. Otherwise, these murders will never end, nor will peace. The state must be left to the head or the raven to the carcass.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0010par0072	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, which is based on an earthquake geography, the earthquakes we encounter from time to time cause us great pain and financial harm. My constituency is also on the fault lines, and from time to time, there is an earthquake. In 2001, there was another earthquake in Osmaniye, and in the central cities of Şekerdere, Tehchi; in Düzichi, Selverler, Yazmazlı, Karagedik, Alibozlu. Instead of the ruined homes of people who already have small incomes, the 57th government, which the National Movement Party has shared, has fixed the problem by building houses. The cost of these houses is now requested to be collected through the Agriculture Bank, along with interest. I'm calling upon the government to prevent this collection from being collected from these people who are already poor. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0012par0077	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0013par0079	Mr. President, dear friends, on the last day of 2014, heavy snow fell in the province of Bursa on 31 December. The snowfall in the city's mountain regions and in Newşehir districts of Iregöl, has also been extreme, and snowfalls that have taken over all Bursa (Bursa) earlier this week reached the height of the city's centers and village between 50m and 1m in the neighborhoods. This has led to blackouts in the urban, out-of-town, and the village, which have caused the neighborhood to close down. In the opening of the city roads and the village, the districts, especially our Metropolitan Municipality, have made an excellent effort, and there is no way in between the village and the neighborhood. In the opening of interstate roads, our highway teams have performed a superior performance and have kept our interstate routes open and open. However, the distribution company is affected by the difficulty of geographical conditions and still has areas of life in which it can't deliver electricity. The distribution company must remove the necessary infrastructure deficits and immediately end the cuts by delegating the situation.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0012par0081	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Davutoglu, about the daily Cumhuriyet, almost attack us. You will print a cartoon called "Come and attack us." Then you will say "Freedom of press." We cannot side with the vileness of insulting the freedom of the press. The Prime Minister has clearly encouraged the public to rebel and attack the Republican daily. Mr. Prime Minister has targeted the daily Cumhuriyet and encouraged the public against the newspaper. Besides, not only that, he threatened all the employees and readers of the Republic newspaper. The prime minister, who is responsible for peace and brotherhood, tolerance, respect, peacekeeping in the country, personally attacked the peace of the country with dynamite. The entire Parliament is in charge of the protection of the Republican newspaper, which has issued a speech of tolerance in Paris and has published 3 million copies of Charlie Hebdo magazine in Turkey and advocated freedom of the press here: their safety is threatened today. I invite the Prime Minister to act responsibly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0015par0087	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0016par0089	Thank you. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is here, Mr. Eroglu. Mr. Secretary, we have no problem with mining or running underground mines, but they're licensed to such places that in areas of forest land, clean drinking water, there are licenses for quarrying, gravel furnaces and mining research. For example, trees, pine trees are cut down in the forest area, in the Kuyucak and Karakuyu region of Menderes district of İzmir. Again, in the village of Gökçealan, Selçuk, where I was at the end of the week, the fields of grapes, figs, and forest are completely purged, and they are given licenses for stone furnaces and clay furnaces. Again, in the Yeniköy district of Menderes, again, this place was stopped by court order in the village of Akaran in Kemalpaşa. We ask you, as Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, about the protection and protection of forest areas, to make sure that you put a curse on it, where there are forest areas, where there are clean drinking waters...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0017par0093	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. The removal of PE classes in elementary schools and instead attending classroom teachers' courses in physical activities, as a result of the removal of PE courses in vocational upper secondary schools, has no longer been appointed gym teachers, and they are assigned classroom teachers in their place. However, physical and mental activities of our children and young ones are vital to the upbringing of our young ones who can show themselves to the world for their own secure sporting purposes. The PE teachers want at least 1,500 appointments to be made and the importance of PE classes to be remembered once again, Mr. President. I hope one of the authorities hears about this, and I think they'll meet their rightful demands. Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today is the 113th birthday of the great poet Nazim Hikmet. I'm honored to be born in the same land, breathe the same air, share the same values. If Nazim Hikmet had lived, he would surely have felt the drama of farmers who had lost their crops because of the frost disaster in Mersin, who were helpless, and who had been spared by the state, and who had fallen out of their hearts. Even if the AKP government does not feel the pain of farmers in its heart, it must act wisely and reach out to them. Not only the farmers who are registered with TARSEM, but the poor farmers who have lost their crops must also come to the aid of these farmers and reach out to them. We have a government strong enough to do that. I'm inviting the AKP government on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0020par0106	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0021par0108	Mr. President... Yes, I'm a traitor, if you're a patriot, if you're a patriot, I'm a traitor, I'm a traitor. If it's your country farms, The ones in your safes and checkbooks are home. Homeland, starving to death at the height of the chassis, If the country is shaking like a dog in the cold and suffering from malaria, In your factories, we drink our blood. The land, the nails, the nails of your Aghas, If the country is informed with spears, If it's a country, if it's a police baton, if it's your grants, if it's a country, Homeland, American bases, American bomb, U.S. Navy cannon, Homeland, not to get rid of our stinking darkness, I'm a traitor. In summer's three columns, he cried out in black: My goodness, Hikmet is 113 years old today, and my soul, Hikmet, remains a traitor. We see those conditions haven't changed. The state must quickly find the murderer of the 12-year-old who was killed in Cizre. By the way, I also wish our great writer, Yasar Kemal, who was hospitalized last night, an urgent cure.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0022par0125	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0023par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that I strongly condemn the police's censorship attempt on Cumhuriyet daily. Police officials in many districts of Turkey yesterday blocked the distribution of the Cumhuriyet daily for several hours. It's also been collected in some provinces. This is a conscious antidemocratic practice of the government against freedom of the press. It is that, as a press member today took the Prime Minister's opinion on what happened in front of the Cumhuriyet daily about the dispersal of the people, Mr. Prime Minister said it was a provocation, a provocation, and that those who did this provocation would endure their costs, he gave the order to begin an attack against the Cumhuriyet daily, which is not appropriate and condemning it to the government's top official.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0022par0129	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0024par0131	Mr. President, thank you. 2015 came with a loss for the disabled. Free transport cards for disabled persons were granted 10 days a day and 220 a month in Istanbul. How can a right that is said to be 220 a month be 10 a day? This means that no one should leave the house on weekends. What a lack of understanding. This decision is said to have been made on the grounds that this ease for disabled persons has been abused. Because of the people who have abused this right, it is unlawful to place the blame on the transport cards, which have been used on all disabled people. Can all disabled ones be blamed for this? The tourniquet workers' job is to detect irregular use. It's wrong to charge all the disabled with crimes, crimes they can't prevent. The disabled are cold winters, hot summers...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0022par0134	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The parliamentary research commission, established to investigate the reasons for the violence against the woman and to determine the measures that need to be taken, has a review of the election of president, deputy president, spokesman and clerk: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is 13/1/2015 Tuesday at 18 for the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk. They were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Interior Charter, following the draft of the 13 ballots collected and used in 00, with their names and last names written down. For your information. Yours truly. President: Avel Dedegil İstanbul: (11) Oy Vice President: Vural Kakuncu Kütahya : 10) Vote Speaker : Sevde Bayazut Runs Kahramanmarash: (11) Oy Clerk: Mehmet Kerim Yıldız Ağrı, 11) Oy It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion to open a general meeting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to bring the increasing problems and measures to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under pressure of the additional payment system based on performance in health institutions, we submit general talks under Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President The "patient-medicine relationship" is a process based on comfort and trust, where the patient shares information in the presentation of health care. The success of health care is measured by reducing the number of patients in need of this service. With an additional payment based on performance in our country since 2004, access to health care has eased, but it has made it difficult for the physician, who is concerned about further medical examinations, to make it difficult for him to give enough time to satisfy his patient. The fact that the performance-based additional payment constitutes a large majority of the doctor's earnings has made performance points more important than they should. The doctor's practice has a point of view of money/pointing, and the doctor says to each patient, "How do I get more points?" He's been put under duress. Doctors and other health workers are overburdened to gain more points/responsibility. Health workers refrain from taking annual leave, vacations, health reports, and attending scientific conventions and meetings, educational events, and retiring. In particular, professors at university hospitals with educational institutions have been forced to collect points by applying for patient examinations and medical initiatives instead of participating in research studies and students' activities. It is not appropriate for a physician to receive 1/4 of the additional payment received by a colleague of his who worked so much less than his own from morning to evening. It is not fair for a specialist to receive half of the money from another clinic or other hospital in exchange for a procedure. The quality of medical procedures, complications, benefits and so on has been ignored, since the performance measurement has only been evaluated over numbers. The physician who does well, works well, acts in line with the safety of the sick and the employee, works with care and control to avoid complications, risks, gives his patient sufficient time to fully evaluate, trains, damages in this system; while the rapid, serial worker, the complex process develops, the second, the third procedure is profitable. As a result of this rating, physicians began to prevent them from doing difficult, time-consuming, risky transactions, and due to poor diagnosis and treatments, the patient's hospital stay and number of doctors increased. Due to the pressure of an additional payment system based on performance in health institutions, measures to be taken with the increasing problems of employees have become inevitable in accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution under the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda and will be held at the time of the pre-interview order on whether or not to open the general meeting. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0025par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been going through a bloody process in Cizre that has been killing children and young people with certain bullets for a long time. While there was a process of solutions and peace to stop the blood flowing on the country's agenda, we began to wake up to the day with news of the massacre of a child almost every day in Cizre. First of all, we want to express that we find this unacceptable and strongly condemning. We would like to point out that the 12-year-old Nihat Kazanhan (who was murdered yesterday) is the 6th youth who was murdered in Cizre in the last month, and that all responsibility is in the AKP government. Despite all the warnings we've had with the government over the past month, we'd like to stress that the government has not heeded these warnings, has not developed measures to prevent deaths, has not conducted an active investigation, and therefore, in this respect, is carrying the burden of all these murders around its neck. By appointing a police commissioner suspected of Hrant Dink's murder, we are reputing that it has already raised concerns, and that the killings have proved these concerns to be justified and proved. We also say that we see the prime minister's or government's responsible ministers here as a huge lack of seriousness that after every murder in Cizre, they call it provocation, that they make references to some parallel structures. This attitude is unacceptable, the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of those who pulled the trigger and those responsible in their background, will be brought to justice immediately... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is to run these processes. We also urge the AKP government to apologize to the People of Cizre for these murders. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0026par0185	There are two motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Constitution, to determine the measures needed to be taken by research into the problems of subcontractors. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 7) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[Erzurum]] In order to reduce the cost of public service, subcontractorisation, which was initially launched in local governments, has been widely implemented in virtually every area in our country. After local governments, hospitals, universities and other public institutions and other institutions are at the top of areas where subcontractorisation is common. In these public institutions and institutions, cleaning, security and office services are provided by subcontractors. The size of subcontractorization, which begins in a tight space with security and cleaning services, has increased day by day. The services of doctors, nurses, midwifes and health workers are now provided in hospitals through the service of food and transportation services at other public institutions. Given the public tender agency's service data, it provides public service through the purchase of nearly 1 million workers. Again, 60-70 out of 100 public workers work as subcontractors. The services are run by 102 subcontractors in the cleanup and mess hall services of the Ministry of Justice, while 2,265 cleaning and 335 security personnel work as subcontractors at court palaces across the country. The Ministry of National Education has a total of 469 subcontractors, including 320 cleaning, 96 security, 10 technical, 18 mess halls and 18 transports. In the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, subcontractorisation has increased, as has been done in all other ministries. In this ministry, 668 security, 110 cleaning, 98 calls, 284 roadside inspections, 48 vans, 29 regional directorial service vehicles, and 29 drivers are employed as subcontractors of 1,269 people with the method of buying services. A total of 1,478 people work as subcontractors, including 918 cleaning, 468 security, 87 renovations and 5 printers at the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. A total of 18,296 people are also employed as subcontractors in similar services at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, such as cleaning and security at the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Other ministries also provide subcontractors in exchange for cleaning, security, transportation, the mess hall and some office services. The government has become a force of subcontractorship. In our country, subcontractors who are employed in almost every service are in great distress. First of all, subcontractors who work without a union are always concerned about being laid off. These workers have a very long working period. In institutions, these workers do a lot of work for very little money. These are also experiencing significant problems with annual permits and daily leave, as well as with seniority and reporting compensation. The working hours of subcontractors also depend on annual tenders. When their firm loses the tender, the subcontractors lose their jobs. Therefore, it would be appropriate to investigate the problems of subcontractors and to establish a parliamentary research commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98 and TEMM Interior to determine the necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the hunger strike in which activists continue to investigate health problems, regularly controlled by experienced doctors and in order that their treatments be conducted in full and proper procedures, under the supervision of the Union of Turkish Medicines (TTB) of Turkey (TTTB), which has begun a hunger strike of 64 days and 682, which has been considered by subsequent participations in this matter, should be informed by these expert physicians in the Black Sea, Eastern Anatolia and other rural prisons, to be subjected to all these frameworks, to complete and decent treatments, and to be subjected to regular treatments of all non-existent physicians, and to all measures of the appropriate treatments of all non-tresponsive treatments, and to be subjected to 10 December 10. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Hunger strikes, which began with 64 political prisoners in 8 prisons starting on September 12, 2012, continue with a number of 682 in 67 prisons, according to the Justice Department's latest official statements. Political prisoners launched their actions with two demands -- removal of the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and opening talks on the Kurdish issue, removing obstacles to defence in his native language and recognition of the right to education for Kurds in the main language. The government is concerned that the number of activists will rise to thousands, while the government has not provided a single explanation of how the demands of hundreds of prisoners who are face to face with death, whose health has been irretrievably corrupted. The Prime Minister's statements have more negative impact on their situation. "There is no such thing as a hunger strike, this is a show. I sent the minister, and after the announcements that they were eating something, there were reports that some of the activists on the hunger strike refused to even take liquids and refused doctor's checks. Health Minister Recep Akdağ has made statements that their health is fluid. Lawmakers, who met with activists, also said that their critical condition is not being provided regularly, such as vitamin B1, clean water, lemons, honey, salt, and sugar, where activists who are unable to stand, sound and light sensitivity have begun. Therefore, under the supervision of the Union of Turkish Medicine (TTB), health screenings should be done in prisons with physicians who specialize in this matter and should be informed by specialist physicians. In particular, the Black Sea, Eastern Anatolia and other rural prisons should tighten scans in this frame, free vitamin B1 for all prisons, which should be distributed regularly and sufficiently to every prison under TTB supervision. At the same time, it is said that prisons administrations do not take into account the sensitivity of the health of activists, while they receive their needs from the canteen. It is among the reports that the need for hygiene is not provided, that those whose condition is heavy are alone in situations such as lying down and getting up, and that they are not treated with care. Clearly, the current conditions in Turkey's prisons, where a healthy person is having trouble staying and soon has a health problem, have become a more open risk on the lives of activists. Medical personnel who work in prisons are generally known to work in a nonsensical, evasive way. In such a situation, it must be done by any means necessary for physicians and other paramedics in prison to act with precision. The doctors in office need to know how to treat people who have a health problem after a hunger strike. In the process, a random treatment will cause irreversible health problems. The activists need to be kept on a serious course of treatment. Health experts say that health disorders resulting from a hunger strike can be largely reversible, while this may be possible if they keep taking vitamin B1. Experts stress that if vitamin B is not used, the memory loss will not be repaired, and soon there will be a pulmonary infection, which, as a whole, will cause irreversible damage to their health. According to medical literature, activists need to be informed that taking vitamin B, salt, sugar, lemon, honey and fluids in the hunger strike does not mean feeding. According to experts, Wernicke-Korsakoff disease occurs when vitamin B1 is not used. The serums are definitely required to be given with B1 or B6, B12 vitamins. In this regard, the General Assembly appreciates the establishment of a commission in parliament to ensure regular health inspections. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of MPs made a visit to Sweden and Italy within the framework of parliamentary diplomacy activities on the 100th anniversary of the 1915 events was approved by the 12th,01,2015 decision of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. These visits are submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 10 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan and the Kingdom of Jordan, about the Compulsors' Approvement of the Transferline Dair Agreement. 4- The Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report (1/740) On the Approvement of the Transferrencess between the Republic of Turkey and the Jordanian Hashimic Kingdom [[S. Number 425]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Law on Building a National Mine Action Center in the 5th place, and with the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, and with the National Defence Commission Report. The Commission and the Government are here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 672 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. As soon as the election approached... asking for votes on the entire bill, I started to say, "Ooh!" Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0027par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Mr. President, we're also asking for votes from the citizen. That's why we're already saying what we think here, and they're going to evaluate it, and hopefully, they're going to make the right decisions. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say to all our citizens in Antalya, especially in our western counties, who have suffered a flood and tornado disaster in the past days. And from here, I urge the government to transfer some of their debts -- as in other things -- to push our farmers, our tradesmen's debt so that they can breathe for a while, and to do the necessary work on it. Let's make it clear to the Minister here that he's a member of the government. Again, I wish all our citizens well. Because it's a place where all the vegetables, all the fruit production, most of the exports are made. Let's take this opportunity to remind you again. Dear friends, regarding this law, of course, it's called the establishment of a national mine operating center, but it includes a lot of different arrangements. You know, he came in as a mercenary. In this frame, of course, this side was discussed most publicly. Mr. President and our friends here have expressed their views on the commission regarding the Bedelli military. Of course, as a matter of fact, I'd like to point out that we find it generally positive, as well as the establishment of the national mine operation center. But before we get into mines, I'd like to say a few quick words about paying military service. We've had some suggestions on how to set this fee as opposition. In particular, for our poor citizens, we've had alternative proposals, such as paying their wages by the state, implementing a different recipe for our citizens who are below a certain level of income, in terms of justice, they haven't been met. In addition, the subject of constant mention of the subject of paid military service, on the one hand, will hurt the fact that the one with no money is in the military and that the one without money is in the long term of military service, and that the duty of military service for the citizens is a patriotic duty. Therefore, we feel that a general regulation on this issue should determine both the need for soldiers of the Turkish Armed Forces and that military time should be reorganised in this framework and ensure a fair practice. Let's take these issues into consideration, and let's take it up to the government as a request for the removal of the shortcomings in this part of the arrangement, which we're looking at as a fundamentally positive. We've always expressed our position on this subject in the 2011 arrangement. We also support the arrangements for the benefit of our citizens, but we ask the government's authorities to grant us the proper implementation of the shortcomings. Other than that, dear friends, the establishment of this national mine center is not today's topic, it's actually a very delayed arrangement. You'll remember, my fellow second-term legislators, after a long debate in 2009, we discussed here the bill for the removal of mines on the Syrian border, and at the time of that law, we discussed that this centre should be established immediately. Of course, that day, as if mines would be cleared immediately the next day, the entire AKP Group and the Turkish Parliament had been oppressed by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan; we had to meet for weeks in the General Assembly and the Commission, although it was a three-four-point law, and today we are discussing the legal arrangement for the establishment of a national mine centre that has removed that gap. My dear friends, we thought this was a delayed arrangement, so I'd say a few things about those days to refresh your memory. The struggle we fought, Mr. Secretary, I presented it to you by making it a book. I handed it over to our former minister because the Minister came later. When we look at what's missing in that process, what's being done, what's being done behind the insistence of the Justice and Development Party on the removal of mines on the Syrian border, what's happening today, what's happening. So, in these matters, at least now, I'm saying that some arrangements must be made on time while the law is being passed. My dear friends, what's wrong with that, Mr. Erdogan, when we did these criticisms that day? You're saying it's for Israeli companies. Isaac won't work here. He said. So we asked him, why don't you call him John, or Jack? So, when the mine law was being passed -- why did I come back today -- we told the government's valued officials -- Mr. Minister, you were then in the bureaucracy, our friends would remember, we had the authorities -- that there would be no law to clear the mines on the border of Syria.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0028par0339	5903.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0027par0340	They said, "What should we do?" We thought we'd set up a mine-cleaning law, set up a national mine center, transfer that stuff there, and the guys behind you remember. But in haste, we will immediately clear the Syrian border and give it to someone for forty-nine years. So this book you see tells you about the process, about the mine removal law, about the shortcomings. Now we're finishing it today, and it's missing again. We said, "What?" They said, "Sir, we have to clean it up according to the Ottawa Convention by April 2014." This place has been under constant pressure for two weeks, three weeks. Now, we're looking at Mr. Minister's answers to our questions: other than certain areas that have been cleared by order of the governors, those tenders are still under way. Still! By 2022, I believe, we've received an extension in the contract under the United Nations Treaty of Ottawa, and we're going to clean them up. Now, we're missing again, Mr. Secretary. So I went back to this book and this book. You're doing it wrong again. Why? On the one hand, we're doing this. We said: "Look, there is no Syrian border, do it all." There's pain, there's Iğdır, there's Ardahan, there's mines all over the place. Take out something common, and we'll give it to the company that cleans up the land. It's the result of our fight. If the Supreme Court hadn't revoked his relevant articles, you'd have given them to a firm and had them cleaned by now. The Constitutional Court has cancelled part of the error we said about giving the land to the cleaning company, so that's all that's left. Or you start the next day... what do you think would happen? I'll tell you. There's a chapter in the book about him. Just think about what's happening in Syria right now, and turn around, if that contract had been made that day, if the Israeli firms had been given it, and if they had settled in now, think about the struggle with ISIS, the actions of the terrorist organization there, the actions of the PYD there, the actions of Kobani, then what we said, why we warned it would have come out more clearly. Now, what would have happened if Israeli companies had settled on the Syrian border, either with agricultural or cleaning company? I've got it. Why did he stay? Because, since the land was not to be given in return, it continued as a normal mine-cleaning activity, and that remained. So, if we don't get this out in a comprehensive way when the law comes out, dear friends, that's what we're going to get. Today, when this law came out at that time, the BOP's stages had not yet been fully advanced, the Arab Spring had not begun, and the turmoil in all these countries in the Middle East had not yet begun. This law had been passed, only some work activities related to the borders of that country. Where are we now? While the entire Middle East was designed in this frame, the importance of what we said that day became clearer. So, now, again, I'm looking at -- we have our friends' opinions on this law -- I'm looking at what's being done, what's being written, what's being made in the tenders, Mr. Secretary, they're talking about something worth 400 to 500 million dollars, something like that. Now, on that day we said, "Why isn't the Turkish Armed Forces cleaning up?" They can't clean it. They said. Why isn't the Ministry of National Defense making the tender? They said we can't do it, we don't have an employee. And then we looked, and we said, "Why?" And Mr. Unakitan said, "Let his ears ring." He said, "Ya, it cost $3,5,4 billion." I said, "But they only did it three months ago. So, what you canceled goes up to 350 or 400 million. How does it go up to 3.5 billion? Because if they don't say $3.5 billion, then they can't afford to let that land run for forty-nine years to raise the unit cost. They had created public opinion by bringing them up again. Now, we're looking at, if what the Minister has given us and what's reflected in the public opinion is true, there are prices for the new tender, plus -- I'll mention again -- there are some cleaning activities, projects on the border with Armenia. So what we're saying is true, and these costs are deliberately inflated. We'll understand that it's an important issue, and if something is said when a law is being passed, it should be taken into consideration, as well as the issues that the Constitutional Court has cancelled, as well as the mines still haven't been cleared at the moment we're here today. So, come, pay attention to what the opposition has to say, dear friends. When you don't think about it, it comes back tomorrow, it comes back. It's been five years, and there's still no cleaning. We're bringing in a new law, and we want to make no mistake about it. Now, of course, when I say that, I move on to something else, dear friends. Something interesting is happening. I've told the Minister on the Commission, and I've told the concerned ministers. We're running a mine-cleaning law here. Mr. Secretary, the Home Office on the other hand pretends to work under separate law, but it's a different method, the European Union is doing something different. Frankly, I'm having a hard time understanding these things, Mr. Secretary. Did we transfer border security to the European Union? So, there's a Border Management Bureau within the Ministry of Interior, where our President knows better because he's been serving for a long time -- his former name is ESYPUM -- which has been changed since 2008. Now, at the beginning of this, we have a friend who's the head of the estate, who's a friend of mine -- and I'm not saying it's because I'm small -- but I'm saying it's about mine cleaning -- he's head of the Border Management Bureau, and the project says, "This is what the project is called: Turkey's Expansion of Border Watch Capacities and the Mine Cleaning Project." I brought it up last year at the budget talks, and I brought it up this year. But there are no soldiers in the project, no Army. According to Law 3497 on the protection of land borders, the ground forces are responsible for the borders. Well, does the Army Command depend on Internal Affairs? It's not -- our troops are here -- it's up to the National Department of Defense. The carabinieri are solely members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Or I don't know if I'm mistaken. Well, how come it's the Home Office and the EU office that's responsible for clearing the mines at the border, I don't understand. Oh, I mean, why did I say that, did we entrust the safety of the borders to the EU? I said, "The border of Armenia is from the top of the line." I said, "Mr. Secretary, I can think of other questions, 2015, they have territorial recognition demands, they have compensation demands. E, I also said, look, we're going to open it to foreigners here. You're saying that the Kazim Karabekir Farm on the other side has been auctioned off, saying, "I'm going to open them to the private sector, so the foreigners can also take them." The name of the farm is Kazim Karabekir because of its success in the struggle, because of its collisions at that border, it's symbolic. Now you're saying we're going to open this up to the private sector, and you're going to change the lists of non-military zones to open the private sector, and on the other hand, the European Union's Border Management Bureau is clearing mines inside the Internal Affairs Office. What the hell is this? Since we're making a law, let's put all the mine-cleaning jobs in this National Mine Center... so if you say, "Sir, no, he didn't happen." Well, let me give you another example, Mr. Minister: Fresher, the process continues, the bids were taken in December, and UNDP took over that project this time. See, now, the last time I told you that the European Union's Border Management couldn't do it, it wasn't tendered, the United Nations Development Programme is conducting a project to clear mines on the border with Turkey. What kind of job is this? I don't understand why everyone is cleaning mines on the border of curious Turkey. So it's up to the U.N.? Let him do it here. There was a lot of controversy when we said, "He'll do it, he'll do it, he'll do it; should he give it to the Treasury or give it to the military?" I'm not saying it so it won't be long. So I went in here, and I don't know why he put the mines in here -- 52 million euros -- the other one put in the budget, put it all in, put it all in the European Union Project, but now I'm looking at it again, they've put it off for 15 days. There's no local firms in it, they can't qualify. 22 firms took files or something, 10 or 11 of them made an offer, so I'm talking about the United Nations. Now, if we're going to do anything here, dear friends, we're going to have to do it all with a frame of law. That's why I'm going back to what I said in 2009. You give it to the national mine center, the necessary things, the Treasury Department, whoever gets in, but the Home Office doesn't clean mines. The United Nations can't launch a mine project for us. You open the tender, you ask them for their powers, you can set a criteria for some NAMSA, auditing units. I also looked at the website of the General Staff's Chief of Staff for how they look at it, and the environment and nature protection activities say: The construction of mines has been terminated under the General Staff's directive of January 26, 1998, and mine removal has been launched and has been part of it. They've been stored under the Ottawa Convention, they've been destroyed, we know that, but by means of TSK troops -- earlier small-made areas -- by means of the cleaning of minefields within the country of mine minefields -- as part of the Law 5903 -- under the Law No. 5903 -- that's what's going on. Now, the third part is being co-ordinator of the Ministry of Interior as part of the EU Integration Border Management Project on the border with Ermenistan, Iran and Iraq. This information remains on the website of the General Staff. So, please, let's put all this together while this arrangement is being arranged. This tender by the United Nations has been postponed, but tomorrow it can be brought to its punch and reassembled, and the commission can be met. Something other than us. And what's the legal side of this? Representatives of our National Ministry of Defense and the Chief of Staff are here. Let's make this right while we're here, let's not make another mistake. As April 2015 approached the parliament of many countries, it was just read out as they again came up. While our friends are going abroad to attend a meeting on this matter, it is demeaning to the state of the Republic of Turkey that we get up and refer to the European Union or the United Nations Development Programme to clean up the mines on the border with Armenia. You know, just because we don't have dignity doesn't mean we have palaces. If we show dignity, the will to cleanse our own mines, we find his contract, his process, his resources, ourselves. I just looked here, and I specifically said: Can't the Republic of Turkey pay 50m euros, and the state is clearing the border of Armenia as part of the European Union Project? I don't understand. I'm looking under here at the bottom of this -- in the old expression -- there's an anchorson. So we're starting to wonder if someone's getting hurt, if there's a political stalker, if there's a commercial stalker. Let's expand the activities of the national mine center to cover all of this while the road is near. Plus, let's make arrangements that will allow those companies to participate, as well as the Turkish companies to participate, to make sure that they get a share of this mine-cleaning cake -- which is a very important sector in the world -- that we can get them to participate in the tenders and make all the arrangements -- by doing the necessary work through the national mine centre -- here a single arrangement. Otherwise, we'll still have to come to this House to complete these shortcomings. If it continues this way, the law will be incomplete, dear friends. And if Mr. Secretary can give us some more information on that... we have a few more suggestions on how to correct it, and he says we're going to talk about it in relevant materials and chapters, and I wish him good luck, and I wish him well.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0029par0351	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0030par0355	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the Law on the Building of National Mine Action Center 672, and the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute all of you with love. Before we get to the point, we demand that the perpetrators of 12-year-old Nihat Kazanhan, who was shot in the head yesterday in Cizre, be found immediately. My condolences to his family and may God have mercy on him. Two years ago, three lives were slaughtered in Paris, three freedom flowers, Leyla, Sakina, and I respectfully remember Fidan. And I ask them the grace of God. If you speak of freedom, democracy, equality, brotherhood, humanity, peace, we don't give you the right to live in the presence of all three Kurdish women. Yes, unfortunately, the perpetrators haven't been caught in two years, their killers haven't been tried, they haven't been brought to justice. We're wondering why the killers haven't been found yet. I want to express with pain and regret that if the perpetrators had been found, 17 people would not have died today in the heart of Paris. In other words, this attack is not only intended for the Kurdish people; it is the bullet that is hated for the equality of the peoples of Turkey, freedom, peace, brotherhood, and a threat to those who defend democracy. Susans, collaborators, criminals, triggermen are still keeping their silence or protecting themselves. There's no doubt that this responsibility is now the work of Turkish and French intelligence. We demand that the problem be revealed. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you all know, we have been known to experience very painful days in Turkey before and after the September 12, 1980 military coup. Since 1978, Turkey's Kurdistan region has been tried to be silenced by martial law between 1987 and 2000. Why? When we look at this base and evaluate the history of mines, I want to draw attention to the time range of mines being laid out. The fact that the first interval coincides immediately after World War II, makes sense that violence -- which will then deepen the unresolved Kurdish problem -- will occur as long as the axillary state policies are centralized. In this regard, national problems have deepened the problems of violence rather than democratic solutions, and the mine problem has taken its part. More than a million mines were laid in Turkey between 1950 and 1955, 1984 and 1994. At the same time, 39,000 mines were also laid around security facilities in the Kurdistan area for security reasons. Mines, conditions of war and border security are also a serious threat during the peace period, even if they are based on the grounds for its safety. Because as long as it's not destroyed where it's built and laid, it's not affected by the outside effects of water and so on for seventy-five years. In fact, it's in active motion, and it's known that it's doing different damage as a result of its explosion in the process. Of course, the most damaged in the explosion of these mines are the children, the elderly and other creatures, where there are soldiers. Because they don't have any maps, no direction. In this regard, people die from the explosions of these mines in the lands or areas where they have been raided. In peace, the number of civilians killed or injured by landmines is more than the number of soldiers killed or injured in the wars. In 1994, the law on return to the village was passed, but most of the people who were forced to migrate were unable to return to their villages because most of the villages that had been evacuated were surrounded by mines. Our people who returned to their village had to live on mines and unexploded ammunition. The problem of mines in Turkey, the use of fertile land, is requested to be postponed by bringing up issues such as smuggling. It is clear that land mines are not used for years, and they are suitable for agriculture. Cleaning minefields must first be given to landless farmers and right-owners who reside in the area. Otherwise, if they have any intention of going after their followers, we're already warning them. In Turkey, people are still dying or crippled by mines. Since 2012, in the last twenty-six years, 1,296 people have died in Turkey due to mines and 5,091 are still injured and disabled. In the first 11 months of 2014, 19 people were killed by landmines. There is no study of civilians who died of mines in Turkey. But I want to stress that these statistics on mines point to a life, not a number. We demand that access to rehab facilities, including the victims' support facilities near the mine-infested areas, be developed and a comprehensive and efficient facility for victims. Therefore, mine victims who are disabled due to landmines must be given their rights under both the Convention on the Rights of International Handicapped Rights and the Law on Mines. The result of the lack of willpower to resolve is the fact that we lost more people to the mines during the time of peace than the time of war. Mr. President, under the Ottawa Convention, Turkey must clear mines that are furnished on the country's land by 1 March 2014, while the mine removal process is slow. Turkey has continued to use land mines for military and security purposes -- more cleaning -- than ever. Turkey's mine cases on the Syrian border have reached the highest level in the last decade. There should be no fate for people who can't live in Syrian war conditions to cross the border and get stuck in minefields and fight mines. It is said that 1,300 kilometers along the border were installed between 1957 and 1998 with 615,419 antipersonal mines. It has been determined that the people who fled from Rojava have taken refuge in this region, although there are no definite numbers, it has been determined by the Human Rights Watch organization, which estimated over 2,000 civilians are desperate in this mined area. These civilians are struggling to survive here with both their vehicles and their animals. Some still live on minefields near the village of Çakaçı. And the interesting thing is that there are no warning signs about mines. Many have been injured by mines and many have died because of Turkey's policy on refugees fleeing Kobani. Since the revolution of Rojava, regional and global forces that have been trying to drown the revolution continue to massacre civilians. In particular, Turkey's hostile stance against the Rojava revolution is seen in a concrete way as it supports Al Qaeda-related Al Nusra and DAİH gangs, who are massacred by civilians. On 18 November 2013, special operations teams crossed the minefield in the New Road village of Nusaybin, where three Rojavan citizens came to Silk Road and were shot down by military armored vehicles. There's no other line where civilian people are killed so happily. There is no investigation, no investigation, no investigation, no trial, no justice, no justice. In this way, the language of peace for the solution to the Kurdish problem should not replace any ethnic and religious groups. The environment for peace and democracy must be provided. The language of peace should not be intrinsic or external. Turkey must end its lower imperial understanding of its policy in the Middle East. It must not miss its opportunities, it must take steps to become comprehensively democratic. As it turns out, regional and international developments have been as clear as the day when domestic and foreign policy, which has been in force for three years, has resulted in a serious failure. These legions and paramilitary forces have been provided with the logistical convenience necessary. The political approach to these gangs has been effectively annulled by the Rojava revolution in the Middle East. All peoples, especially the Kurdish people, have been able to achieve this success as a result of a free and democratic struggle against this violence and violence. While differences are seen and appreciated by everyone, equal, free and pluralist in Rojava cantons, Turkey is trying to evaluate with another perspective. No citizen who served in Turkey is confident of his own safety. The body and mental health report are available as a result of examinations of the military branch. The report has been reported, but the psychological changes caused by military conditions have resulted in negative situations. Finally, what is the condition of the soldier who committed suicide after shooting two of his friends at the Boztepe police station in Ceylanpınar? One of the major problems faced during the mandatory military service is the increasing number of suspected military deaths, especially in recent years. 1.036 soldiers have been reported to have committed suspicious suicide in the last 12 years. As of November 2014, 27 suspected soldiers were killed. It is not the government's duty to force people into the army, but to respond to public demands and secure the right to conscientious rejection. No one should be subjected to mandatory military service against his will. Of course, we welcome the Ministry's approval of suspicious military deaths, but that's not enough. The state and the Ministry of National Defense must conduct a serious and comprehensive work to prevent suspicious military deaths and military suicides, and all necessary work must be carried out as soon as possible. In addition, he must offer free health care, compensation, and monthly contributions to soldiers who have been disabled during the mandatory military service. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, there is no detailed calendar and schedule for the removal of land mines during the eight-year extension of mine removal. And they don't even have a map. Now, it's clear how to do the work, what dates, where, how, why, and how it's going to be done, they don't have a program, they don't have a plan. The interiors of Turkey do not have any calendars for mine removal because there is no such thing in the brochure. Well, there's been a variety of tenders in cleaning these mines before, but these tenders haven't been reached. Why? Because there was always a plan to lure those farmable lands to someone. But this plan didn't succeed because it's a fact that at the time this planning, this political approach, the account at home, didn't fit the market. Minefields should be marked as soon as possible, while civilians and living creatures should be blocked from entering these areas, such a sign is not possible in an area where both on the Syrian border and on the Iraqi border, especially on the Iranian border, where Kurds are busy. How can you be so cruel to your own citizens? How is it that without marking these areas... we hear from time to time that the soldiers have stepped on the mine? First of all, you have to give up that understanding, you have to tell the truth, you have to be objective. Where land mines are found, similar areas like this need to be cleaned up, first of all, professional employees need to be picked up, but apparently there's no such thing. Because of these mines, children are at the head of the most damaged. Therefore, teachers, especially teachers, should be assigned to schools with training areas in mined areas, and teachers should be able to enlighten the environment as well as to raise awareness of the students. We suggest that they be careful in such areas. In this regard, it appears that it is as clear as the day when neither the military responsible nor those responsible for the Ministry of Interior or those around them have such goals, such concerns. Mr. President, we have repeatedly expressed here that one of the structural problems of the Turkish Armed Forces is mandatory military service. The state shouldn't torture its citizens because it's responsible for its citizens, it has to protect its citizens. But it seems the state has always protected itself, never taken measures to protect its citizen. In this regard, even though Turkey is a member of the Council of the European Union, it is still hesitant about conscientious rejection. If he does not want to go to the army, he must be granted whatever legal right he needs from a human standpoint. What's the use of forcing them into the army? So, you're still having a hard time explaining why most of the people in the military who suffered psychological trauma committed suicide. The DOD still has no such explanation for this matter. Because why? In many areas... we saw the other day, as a result of this suicide in the village of Boztepe in the area of Nusaybin, someone tried to make themselves material, and from many areas to the press, to the other sections, to the other kind. So there's no point hiding things here. Since such a law is being passed, it is of no use to the citizen of this law, especially to his citizen, and to help his citizen to live comfortably. Go, look, east and southeast, so to speak, every house has a cripple, a disabled person. Why? Because these boundaries are drawn in one day; one brother is on the other side of the border when he wakes up in the morning, and one brother is on this side of the border. For him, as a result of the comings and goings and the mines laid out, many people are now disabled, either without eyes or feet or arms. So I want to express that in every way, the parts of a human body remain within those limits. So, if it's to be done with this law, do you want to do it by adding a nationalized adjective to this national adjective? I don't understand him. National defense, national education, national education... and a national addition to this mine. So let's give up your sense of showmanship. Objectively, the truth is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to express that I've benefited from being clear and clear about what you're trying to say. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0031par0398	Thank you. Congressmans, I would like to remind you of the responsibility of loyalty to the 81st Article of the Constitution, which every member of the General Assembly has sworn in. I don't think naming any part of the Republic of Turkey as another state would be in harmony with the oath of the MP. I wanted to share my sensitivity with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0032par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0031par0404	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0032par0407	Now, Mr. Speaker has just spoken several times in his speech using the expression "Kurdistan region" of Turkey. We cannot accept the use of such an expression that is contrary to the Constitution. I demand that this be removed.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0031par0408	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0034par0410	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0411	I want to say something.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0035par0412	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0413	If you'll excuse me, I'll make it clear to him.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0035par0414	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0416	Now, I'm really having trouble making sense of it. Well, does a geography have to be called what you want it to be? Can you call France Kurdistan, can you call France Turkey, can you call England Turkey, or can you call Turkey England England? That is the name of this geography, Mustafa Kemal named it. Earlier, in the 1040s, as he came here to the Iranian border, he said: "What is this place?" They say: "This is Kurdistan." I didn't put it there. The Arabs say El Ekrad. I mean, we didn't name them, we did. I don't understand why you're going now.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0035par0418	Now, for the record...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0419	It's in the House's records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0035par0420	Mr. Zenderlioğlu...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0036par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0033par0422	It's the House's...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0035par0423	Wait a second... Article 81 of the Constitution is open. Therefore, each and every one of us, especially me, must obey the Constitution, which we have sworn upon every member of this Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thus, such naming was not made legally when Turkey's geographical regions were separated. Therefore, we must obey him under this roof. I have a duty to remind you of that. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan first, please. Then I'll take turns making promises.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0037par0427	Mr. President, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to point out to you that I have never, ever accepted such a discrepancy on the floor. And I curse those who remain silent! Here, on the stand, they'll call you Kurdistan, and they won't make a sound. I curse this fucking attitude! Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0038par0429	He lived together for 600 years.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0037par0430	Don't give me that story about living together! We will not allow Turkey to divide!
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0039par0431	Don't shout like that, don't shout like that.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0037par0432	We won't allow it, though.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit02spe0040par0433	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0040par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 672. The Commission and the Government are here.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0041par0007	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0042par0008	Mr. President, we're repeating our request for the release of the sentence from the text we just said.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0040par0009	That's on the record now, Hajji. So get them out of there. I don't have the legal right to say it. I gave you my opinion, you gave me yours. So it's all over. Then I'll also look into what's going to happen and what's not going to happen within the frame of the Presidential Court. It's all on the record.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0041par0010	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0040par0011	Here you go, it was your turn, your request for a word.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0041par0014	And I'd like to stress some issues for him to go on the record. The truth of Kurdistan on both Anatolian soils and the Middle East is a reality considered social, social, historical and geographical. And in this land, from the time of Sultan Sensör to the time of Yavuz Sultan Selim. From every period of the Ottoman Empire to the first legislature, we can clearly state that the Kurdistan reality is well known in the archives of this Assembly. The Kurdish and Kurdistan reality of the 24 Constitution has been banned from Turkey after denial, protestor, assimilationist policies, articles. For us, to pronounce a banned historical, geographical, social reality is not to divide the country, but rather to allow the country to reunite with its own values, its history. In that way, I would like to point out that it's not indiscriminate for our fellow MP to pronounce the word Kurdistan, but rather to deny this historical reality. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0043par0017	Now, Mr. Baluken, here is the 81st article that I've shared with you that each of us should be faithful to the oath of each member of parliament. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0044par0020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a democratically-enhanced House. Each member here has the right to express his opinion. He can speak their sensibilities, he can speak his opinions, but he can't attempt to justify his sensitivities and opinions. But the state has its rules, and you've made a statement in accordance with those rules, in accordance with the law; that's what the friend said, and you've made the statement. I think that's what you have to think. It's impossible to reconcile an approach to democracy, to the atmosphere of the Assembly here, to the rules. In addition, Mr. Lütfü returned to our group and used the word "ghuruh" He probably doesn't know what that word means, and if he did, I think he would be ashamed to say such a word as a respectable and gentleman. So I don't see any need to answer that word. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0045par0023	I think you should be ashamed of your silence.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0046par0024	Wait, Mr. Altay's in the system now. Come in, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0047par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. I also have information that the concept of Kurdistan is being used in the Ottoman Empire and in earlier times. However, after 1923, a new era began in Turkey, the state of the Republic of Turkey was built and founded. This is not a denial of Kurdish reality, of Kurdish reality, it shouldn't be perceived, it shouldn't be. The existence of Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Georgian, Laz, Çerkek peoples in Turkey is a fact. It is also known that Kurdish people have been subjected to many negative practices for years, for years, for years, and for Kurdish people, for 30 years, there has been unnecessary and meaningless bloodshed in this country. However, as the Republican People's Party, we in Turkey, under the same flag, on the roof of one state, declare and confirm our will to live together in peace.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0046par0030	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0048par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, if they're really going to talk about history here, there's never been a Kurdistan in Asia Minor. Tell them to bring whatever source they want. They'll bring the maps and show them. They're talking about Kamusul-alam. The Kurdistan Geography of Kamusul-alam is out of Anatolia. It has nothing to do with Anatolia. The state of Kurdistan was founded only in 1847. Until then, there has never been a state of Kurdistan. It was also eliminated in 1864. For it was founded after 1839, upon the will of the Westerners. A single state has been established. The fact that it wasn't before then is evidence that it was established on that date. Thus, from the time of Sultan Mesudt, the borders of Kurdistan were drawn from the Seljukites. He is not in the Anatolian geography of Kurdistan, he is in Iraq and Iran. So, anyone who tries to come out here and talk about historical reality, let them show their sources, number one. Second of all, if it's so much, why wasn't there a gentleman? Why didn't the fief have any national cultural value? Why were there no other examples of him in these areas? Why aren't there any history books? Why aren't there some issues like this? Now, here, politically, we can't possibly agree to say that. But in fact, here, on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, everyone is sworn by the Constitution. To say something that is not in the Constitution means not to abide by its oath, but to break it. We object to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0049par0037	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0050par0044	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. We continue to discuss the bill of law relating to the establishment of the National Mine Action Center in 672 rows and the draft of the Law on Change in Some Laws. Before I go into my views on this, I'd like to present the two subjects to the attention of both my fellow lawmakers, both sensitive and responsible citizens. Dangerous things happen in Turkey, and we experience them every day. He's drifting into a combat environment fast, Turkey. Unfortunately, we're running the biggest role and effort in this drift. The President, the Prime Minister, who claims, triggers them, and triggers all the executive organs that perceive their directives as an application. When I wake up this morning, the Prime Minister is talking on TV, and with statements pointing to the Cumhuriyet daily, he's been encouraging the Cumhuriyet daily to attack in front of the Cumhuriyet daily for the past two days. It seems that he continues to carry out the responsibility of attacking everything that is called the Republic, as well as to provoking the people, the citizens against it at every opportunity, Prime Minister. The second dangerous job is the second fact, which seems to be very independent but very interested in each other: in the last few days, especially in a part of Turkey over the last week, things are dangerous in Cizre. Four days later, we came not to divide these lands, but to be buried in this land. We will commemorate the anniversary of the death of Hrant Dink. After a police officer named Ercan Demir, who had been released on charges of co-operation with those responsible for Hrant Dink's death, was released on the grounds of judicial law, there were 12 years of age, 14 years of age, 16 years of age, children killed, and the Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, in their own words, are not killed by police bullets, saying immediately, without any investigation, without any investigation. I personally have not heard of any police officer or police commissioner who has ever been killed by police bullets. This person has been killed by police bullets. It's not up to a Prime Minister, a Home Secretary to hide them. In fact, both cases are aimed at destroying the unity and unity of the people against a republic that is crowned with democracy, because it is not possible to talk about law, freedom, justice in environments where there is violence, terrorism, conflict, and it is easier to govern those societies. The Prime Minister, the President, and the administration, unfortunately, are involved in dangerous business with these methods. Why did I say that? These laws are spoken, these laws are passed, but if a peaceful, democratically crowned republic is not protected, if it is not strengthened, we will all drown in these laws, and we will continue to suffer a lot in this country. Yeah, we're in a hurry again, trying to work something out with a law. We think that if a law is discussed, if it becomes law, we'll be able to fully resolve it. But how do we solve this problem before the bill becomes a bill, before it becomes a bill, without talking about what we want to solve with this law, how do we solve it in other countries, yes, what do we have to do after we've built this national mine center and we've cleared these mines, how much equipment do we have to evaluate this place, how much equipment we need to do to not talk about it, how do we solve this problem, how do we not talk about how other countries have solved these problems, how we want to solve this national mine central activity, and how much it's going to cost the Turkish Armed Forces to clean these mines, how much we need to clean these mines, how many tools, how much equipment we need to figure out, how much we need to figure out, how much of this problem after we can talk about how we can solve it, how we can solve it again. Our real mistake begins here, and we, as the Republican People's Party Group and Republican People's Party MPs, as we do every year, are trying to avoid these dangers by simply making warnings on these issues in the commissions and by making some changes in the Parliament, as well as by doing so. Yes, as we carry out this responsibility, my fellow lawmakers -- I hope they're listening in their offices -- we can make some changes in the bill on how to clean these national mines. If they think about it, I want to briefly explain this process. There is an Ottawa Convention that took effect on 1 March 1999. Our parliament adopted this contract on March 12, 2003, and, while agreeing to it, it signed a contract to destroy the mines against the tanks, which were opposed to the personnel, and made a commitment that it would meet by 2014. I will destroy the mines that have been laid down until 2010, and I will destroy the mines that have been laid down until 2014. We couldn't keep our promises about it as much as we did about everything else. Just like with the disabled, we agree to a contract, we say that we will fulfill our obligations to that contract by now, but that date is coming, and we want to extend it once more. Now we've asked for one more extension, and we've promised to clear these mines again by 2020. I hope, for the benefit of this country and for the benefit of our peasants, that we will have cleared these mines by 2020, without losing those lands, without taking control of them, or using them. These lands are one of the things that should be noted in 1956... if both the members of the Commission and the Minister's and the MPs are to be considered. Because you're about to vote against our motion.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0051par0054	We'll ask for roll call.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0050par0055	By looking at the history of this as we propose something, let those who speak of history, history, history listen carefully. This land was purchased from peasants in 1956, by nationalization. Curious people can look at how much it costs. And 178 thousand debits of 216 thousand acres have been mined on the border with Syria and Iraq. I mean, this land was bought from peasants in 1956. I'd like you to put that fact aside and put it in the back of your head. Because that's why we're saying we're going to use the villagers soon after these mines are cleared. I mean, we're not saying give the villagers government property. Besides, you can. If the villagers are going to take advantage of it, if you think of the citizen, if agriculture is going to grow there, if the white, red wheat is going to grow again, if the vegetables and fruits are going to grow there. But here's another fact: after you clean up what you got from the village, we say give it back to the peasant. I beg you, dear friends, to consider this matter during the vote of a motion on this matter. And one process of this is to influence your behavior regarding today's bill: I think this bill is being discussed again in 2009, and while it's being discussed again, our friends in the CHP Group, especially our friend, Gurol Ergin, who is a member of the Congress of Congress, after you clear these mines, we want you to give it to the villagers, but you won't give it to them. When you give this tender, you bid for forty-nine years, you consider five years as a cleaning period, and you want to give it to the company, the company that cleans up forty-four years. What's perceived in the market is that you're going to give this land to an Israeli firm. You're going to commit to that firm in five years, you're going to give it that time, and you're going to give it to that company because you can farm here for forty-four years. That's not true. You can't tender two things that aren't connected to each other to the same company, and if you do so, he'll come back from the court. He warns, but he won't listen. Because it's been calculated, it's been done, it's been measured. But as a result of our objection, this decision has been cancelled from the State Department. I mean, it's being canceled because it's not right to do that kind of bidding. You know what you're saying? What does the People's Party of the Republic serve? The Republican People's Party actually serves so much that it's not only served as power; it's the duty of the main opposition party or opposition parties to remind them of the mistakes that the government has made at this point, to fight against their constitutional rights, whether they're fit for civil rights. We have many examples on this subject, but this example is truly exemplary, and I would like to ask all my fellow lawmakers to consider it as an example, as an experience, as an example, when they determine their stance on this bill. As a result of all these processes, I'd like to draw your attention to all three of the important issues that we need to consider as we discuss this bill, dear friends. First of all, from all the developments, from these processes... Oh, one more thing I forgot. Before 2000, before the AKP came to power, this mine-cleaning business came on the agenda, and the Turkish Armed Forces, the General Staff, said: "We have staff to clean these mines, we have experience, we only need an additional $35 million equipment -- at the price of that day -- if this is provided for us, we can clear these mines. Again, at the moment, in fact, the whole Assembly and the executive decision is that the Turkish Armed Forces can clean these mines, they have the necessary equipment, they have the necessary experience, they must be given to the Turkish Armed Forces with additional equipment. That's why I just warned you what we should talk about when we discuss this bill. How much money do you need? It was $35 million that day, and now technology's developed, and you need more money? What do the Turkish Armed Forces need? Should we make a law that can only be cleared by the Turkish Armed Forces? We could've talked about all this, but he came before we could talk, it's okay. It must be cleaned by the Turkish Armed Forces, that's what we'll be careful about. If the Turkish Armed Forces say I can't handle it, or if the executive says to the Turkish Armed Forces, you don't run it, we'll run it with others. One of the things we'll be very careful about here is this: it has to be given to local companies. We've also made a motion for him, and I think Mr. Secretary and Commissioners will agree. In the event of equality, I think these things should be given to Turkish firms, so if the conditions are equal to foreign firms, it should be done by local companies. The third point is that I've just made a brief history of it. Here, a land above 200,000 acres will be accrued to agriculture, and since there has been no agriculture for years, it will be suitable for organic agriculture, as well as for rested soil. For him, surely, these fields must be used for agriculture, one. Secondly, because these lands have been taken away from the villagers, because they have a right, and even though they haven't been taken from them, they need to be used for agriculture because it's something we need the most, and they need to be used for farming, and through co-ops that will be built for peasants, in the form of collective farming areas, and those cooperatives must be given all kinds of incentives, all kinds of support from the state. I really think we need to know that listening to these warnings today might be too hard on a country, a land, and the people who live on that land, but we need to know that it stands on our Parliament like a document of betrayal. But I don't want our citizens to fall into despair that if this law were to come out of power during this period of power... remember, those who are in power today will be removed from power tomorrow and these mines will be cleaned by the Turkish Armed Forces in the Republic's People's Party and will be supplied with all the tools and equipment necessary for the Turkish Armed Forces to clean up this mess. And 100 percent of the land will be distributed to the villagers to make it work through co-ops, as stated in Article 44 of our Constitution, and in these villages, in the rule of the Republican People's Party -- not only that land, but all the land that has not been planted -- will be planted -- and in that land, as I just stated, white, red, brown wheat will grow, and this country will not have to import wheat from the outside, and all the inequality of the Republic's People's Party will be eliminated, my dear citizens. By the way -- we're running out of time -- and all inequalities in the Turkish Armed Forces will be lifted by the Republican People's Party. All Turkish Armed Forces legislations are being discussed, as we've always said, all soldiers who have been thrown out of the army in the Republican People's Party's Party's power, except for the decision to issue, will be extradited the rights of all students. Resen pensioners will cease to face an application of cruelty. Dear Minister, I hope you'll pay attention, at one o'clock, we were at the Dikmen Gate with the Re casemen pensioners and members of the Man-DER, and they sent you a letter, and they wrote you a note, and they said, "Well, after that, our Minister, after that, I read this letter exactly as follows: What is it that you can and can't have with 1,500 people who have served this country for many years? In each interview with you, you have always made an excuse, only the path of judgment is clear. You said, "We have removed it with concrete information and documents." For four years, you have not been able to get that view. In each proposal given in the commission talks, you passed it by saying, "Let's take this in a broader way." Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what are you up to? You have cleared the soldiers who have been cast out of their mourning decisions as white and white, and you have turned your back on the soldiers who have been thrown out on the same grounds and with the same decree. Don't play with people's hopes. Now we say we don't want to hang around and hear excuses, dear Minister. And the last word, my dear friends: this is not the last word that I have said, but the last thing our Congresswoman, Gurol Ergin, said in 2009, when the bill for mine removal was being discussed again. History doesn't repeat itself, but history repeats itself with your apps because you make the same mistake in every law. Says Gurol Ergin: Is it the purpose of those who bring this bill, who will lift their finger at it, to cleanse the land of this land and serve it to strangers, or to give it to those who have owned it for thousands of years? We're very sensitive about this. If we don't show this sensitivity, if you don't show the ruling MPs, you'll know that in the future, Turkey will face very serious challenges, and you'll be permanently in a state of conscience. Who knows, that's what the poet said: The country that has not been owned has the right to go down. This country will not sink if you have it. I give you all my regards, my love. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0052par0071	Thank you. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, National Defence Minister.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0053par0073	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the National Mine Action Center established by our ministry about the Law and the Law Against Changes in Some Laws. The bill includes amendments to the Law Against the Building of the National Mine Action Centre, which will be the first time in our legislation, as well as to 19 laws involving the Turkish Armed Forces. As it is known, our country took part in the Ottawa Convention on March 1, 2004, and pledged that the mines in the warehouses would be destroyed by November 2010, while the mines laid out were cleaned by March 2014. Extermination of antipersonal mines found in warehouses is completed by June 2011. The period for cleaning the floor mines has been extended until March 1st, 2022, at the request of Turkey. Mr. President, lawmakers, according to the Ottawa Convention, Turkey is not the only country demanding an extension on the removal of mines. Many countries have taken additional, additional time, as well as Colombia is one of those countries, due to their technical competencies, the failure to complete preparations. Again, the Ottawa Convention on banning these mines is a 133-nation entity to the Ottawa Convention. However, I must make it clear that America is not on the side, China is not on the side, Russia is not on the side, and many countries like these are not on the side. As of today, Turkey has been cleared of soiled mines by the Turkish Armed Forces at 28.309. Within the borders of our country, there are 975,674 land mines. Under the bill, a large majority of the countries recommended by the United Nations for the International Mine Action Standards Document will also be established in Turkey. Mines and unexploded munitions in our country will be carried out from one centre, planned and in line with international mine activity standards. The centre can also employ contract personnel not to exceed 50 people, and other public institutions can also be appointed. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the State of Turkey, issued in 2009, and the State of the Republic of Turkey, and the State of the Arab Republic of Syria, have been expressed as being incompatible with the actual situation and the content of the law, as well as with the Law on the Transparency of Mine Cleaning. The first thing is, what happens after these minefields are cleared? There is a clear clause in the law; the savings of the treasured deposits in areas that have been wiped out from the Mayan area will go to the Ministry of Finance. There is absolutely no right to be able to say another word. It's another thing, another myth. It's not real when you tell me a hundred times what's not true.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0054par0079	Minister, it should be given to the villagers, not to the treasure.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0053par0080	Again, I say another statement in Law 5903: these fields cannot be left to the contractor's use. So, how can a congressman -- he's studying here -- after he's seen this law, he's going to be given to the contractor. How can he say that? Another thing is, it's said: "Why is this mine-cleaning business not being given to Turkish companies?" Now, our parties will make a motion for a change; we see that it is appropriate, so that it will be preferred, but know that the minefield where it cleans up has been cleared of this landmine. There is not one Turkish firm capable of giving it a certificate. And that's why... look, we're bidding, it's about clearing mines on the Syrian border. When there were no certificates, they entered with Turkish companies as a consortium in front of foreign companies. The companies entering are from Azerbaijan, Britain, Croatia, Korea, Bosnia and Herzegovina, America, Slovakia, India, Switzerland, Germany, South Africa, Slovenia, and Russia. Therefore, each of the remaining Turkish firms is with these companies. Why? The companies that can give you a degree in mine removal are companies that have this kind of accreditation. How do you want something that is not in Turkey? Come on, if you don't get a certificate before you've been cleared -- if you don't get a person to die when one person enters a mine, won't they ask: "How is it that you tendered 100 percent of people who don't have a certificate to you because they don't guarantee you they've been cleared, after you've made a tender, that you've opened it to the use of a citizen??" You don't have a conscience. Don't you? Therefore, there is no Turkey, but by the way... after we have made this tender, the process has been cancelled because of the events in Syria. However, so far, there have been no Turkish companies. In the meantime, those who have come and gone have started their new foreign activisation work, and I have also bought a company. I have started it or started it. It says, "I will have it soon." Hopefully, if this national mine center is set up, we'll be working with both certified and competent companies. If local companies are equal to strangers, we'll prefer them, and if they're superior to strangers, I think we'll benefit from that. Again, in this law, one of our armed forces... said that with the interim article one, all other ministries should be in the mine removal business. And finally, we're bringing a lot of changes in this law, technically, but most importantly, we're adding an additional clause to Law 211 regarding Article 32. This additional article states: "In the event of the death of soldiers in continents, headquarters, or positions of office or office, they are appointed to represent their legal heirs during the investigation and prosecution. The task is carried out by a lawyer who will be determined by the bar if it cannot be appointed due to the verb or legal impropriety. If the legal heir's attorney comes, the job of the lawyer elected by the bar will be terminated. It is also mandatory that the appointed deputy be present during the prosecution's procedures for a crime scene investigation, a dead examination and an autopsy and a hearing of witnesses and witnesses. The price of the deputy elected or appointed to the bar by the deceased's legal heirs is paid by the relevant ministry. The procedures for hiring a lawyer, election by the bar, and the payment of this legal fees are organised by the Ministry of National Defence and Interior in three months. With this law, we aim to achieve that no matter what we say to their families in the armed forces after suicides or suspicious deaths, there is no way that they can convince themselves, that their hearts can be sedated, that they can't be satisfied. Therefore, from the moment of such an incident, a lawyer sent by the family will be involved in his first investigation, in his autopsy, in his investigation, in his investigation. We may not be able to reach his family or appoint a lawyer. Even if they did, we'll ask the bar to appoint a lawyer, and from the moment this happened, he will complete the legal procedures, the process. If he goes to trial, if he sends a family to trial, we'll pay for theirs as lawyers, or if they don't, if our lawyer continues, we'll pay for it. Therefore, I would like to thank you now for the support of all our parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish our country good fortune for the changes made in both your national mine center and other laws. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0055par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Engin Altay, the Sinop MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Basically, both the world and Turkey are having a very sensitive, critical time. We're going through a delicate process of conflict of civilizations, perception of religious warfare, perception of threats, even though it's always been said as a theory of a conspiracy, always feared, but I'm going to share with you our understanding of this matter. Mr. Moroglu has just announced our views as the party regarding the law on the establishment of a national mine operation centre. Mr. Secretary, yesterday and the day before, the retail sales law passed here, and very quickly, very practically, the bill was passed. So the opposition does not overwhelm the state, the interests of our citizens, the state, the country, the laws that it has adopted, so we can use the obstructions and rights given to us as a result of Parliamentary Interior. This is the law that passed yesterday, and I don't want to say a lesson, but it needs to come out. So, we have a numerical majority. The government must give up its understanding as soon as possible. The reason why this Parliament is not assigned to the first party, the party that gets the most votes in the elections, and the parties that get fewer votes is because democracy is a matter of reconciliation first, and we always say, politics is a job of kindness and conscience. In this regard, the changes our friends will soon offer you will not benefit our parties, and we will share them with you in this Parliament for the sake of public interest, as we have proposed in the interests of the country, and we will not keep you in it for very long if it is considered appropriate. However, since we don't have a serious reserve in terms of the entire law, we're going to help the Turkish Armed Forces pass as quickly as possible as possible, as well. This is the first one. Secondly, I have a commitment to the government. The government is the name of the body that manages state affairs. Today Mr. Idris Bauken said: "The government is responsible for the five or six children who died in Cirre. This is a serious accusation, and this is an important claim. In fact, there is no one in Turkey who knows what's going on in Cizre. I don't know how much the committee that left yesterday knows, and I couldn't look at it today. What's going on in Cizre, Mr. Government? The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and Hezbollah split the city in two -- this is yours, this is mine -- the government is watching. It's a great weakness for the government. The Prime Minister announced the package of transparency yesterday and announced his schedule. If a Prime Minister is going to talk about transparency, he has to go somewhere in this country and tell the people, Parliament. None of the MPs in this Parliament have any idea what's going on in a county. We have the right to ask the government for an explanation, to wait, as a member of parliament, as an opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's get down to last and warm. First, we need to emphasize that Muhammad is all of us; he belongs to Muslims over 1.5 billion. No one has the scales to measure other's religious feelings, values, love of God, faith, which he does not have, and it is a good thing that he does not have. I'd like to underline that. Of course, there are lessons the world will learn from the situation that started with a cartoon crisis and led to a common terrorist attack, and there are lessons from Turkey, and there are lessons from our Parliament. Now, it's not the government's job to fuel tension, it's to minimize tension, it's to reset tension. However, at the moment we arrived, the Prime Minister's statements were almost a provocation, a provocation, a provocation. I didn't bring the explanations with me, I have them there, so read them, please. Would a Prime Minister -- even if a newspaper had the wrong publication -- make such a statement at such a delicate time, Mr. Lawmakers? Oh, my God! The people who work in that newspaper are Muslim, no doubt. Mistakes, misapprehensions, news flow or news planning, the newspaper's bar mitzvah, the design of the paper, and the error of its design, a prime minister shouldn't talk like that, Congressman.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0057par0100	Are you going to say anything to the paper?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0101	I will. Haven't you been listening to me?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0057par0102	I'm listening.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0103	What am I saying? Didn't I tell you about the metaphor, the water? Come on, tell me if you have any ideas. I'll tell you something now, it's rude. Look, I'm talking calmly. That's a shame. And you're from the Black Sea.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0057par0104	We're neighbors, come on!
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0105	We'll have reactions. Of course, there should be no ridicule, insult, and similar approach to a prophet of a noble religion, friends.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0057par0106	Look, I applauded you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0107	However, the response to this is not to take up arms, especially not to make it look reasonable, innocent, legitimate, when you're holding a gun and killing 12 people. If they ask me to sum up your religion in one word. Everyone can say something different, the religion of Islam is equal, you will write a word in front of it. If they say, I'll write leniency. Tolerance is our religion. Is there no way to express these reactions in a civilized, reasonable, climate of tolerance? There is. So it's not the government's job to do business and procedures that will cause reactions in Turkey through ISIS. In the story of the Cumhuriyet daily, after the pressure was revealed, the alleged security measure made the overcrowding of the police there a clear target for the daily Cumhuriyet. With some further explanations, Turkey had a critical moment. God forbid a person gets a nosebleed in there and a person loses their life. Guys, we're not playing taps, it's sensitive stuff. Every man's worth, every man's faith, to himself, of course. Some people do that, some people do that. There's one thing I've always said in Turkey: If only people could read our great book in their own native language, in their own language, you wouldn't even be able to cross the dam. In Turkey, I said so to some people, that our holy religion was not read, that it was not understood, that the people did not know what God had commanded, what they had forbidden, that the people had said so. I am one of those who think that the commandments of God are not truly understood in Anatolia. I called Mr. Bostanci yesterday, and I said, "What have you done for God today?" We did not perform the prayer; it is your duty. I said, "What have you done for God, other than pray?" I mean, it's important, guys. But, you know, some religious terrorist organizations in the Middle East think they're doing business in the name of God, so don't try to be God's collectors in Turkey as the AKP.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0058par0110	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0056par0111	The measure of which of us Allah loveth much: I said it just now; and no one has it; so do not hold back. These reactions... The Prime Minister went to Paris, supported Charlie Hebdo, and that's good. The support given to Charlie Hebdo was not because that cartoon was right, but because of the terrorist attack there. It is not acceptable for the same Prime Minister to come to Ankara and target the Cumhuriyet daily, it is not understandable, it is not sincere. I want to underline that, too. And finally, the president reminded me of 81, and I'm using his name again to give Mr. Bostanci the right to answer. Mr. Bostanci is a 90-year-old commercial for six hundred years of film. Do you agree? He is a member of parliament who has sworn to honor and honor that he will remain loyal to this republic and its values here. It has to be known that the republic was founded in blood, it would be destroyed in blood. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0059par0115	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0060par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0059par0117	Now, just a second, Mr. Botanci... let me finish up this system. All right, I'll listen to you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0061par0121	The president of our party has clearly described the statements he made regarding these recent events as provocations and provocations.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0059par0122	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0062par0123	And I also said, "Provocation, provocation and provocation."
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0061par0126	Mr. President, dear friends, provocation and provocation are the basic principles of Leninist propaganda. Mr. Prime Minister Ahmet is not a Leninist, I'll tell you that first. Second: If you look at the Prime Minister's speeches, there is no statement in the newspaper, no matter what your political engagement may refer to as "provocation." If anyone tries to do anything by any provocation in the name of our Prophet, we will take the necessary measures, says Engin, my brother.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0062par0128	You read that text again.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0061par0129	But our Prophet says we will not allow any insult to be done to him. Of course, it would be within the principles of the state of law to allow it, otherwise it wouldn't be. Third: While my Engin brother was speaking here, he said: "If our people knew about Islam, you would be trapped under the dam." I, of course, know how humble Mr. Engin is, but I would like to explain how this word can be thrown into a different place. The person who knows what our people do not know is Engin Bey. I mean, he'd put himself in the position of a man who knows the right Islam, who leans on the right, who reads the original book correctly, but who can identify himself with this knowledge that our people don't read correctly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0062par0131	He's not reading. What's he gonna read when he doesn't know?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0061par0132	That is, of course, certainly not how I see Mr. Engin, but by his words, it means megalomaniaci, and I'd like to emphasize that. Our people have known Islam for a thousand and four hundred years, and they have known Islam, and they live by its truth, and by its righteousness, and by its sin, and there is heaven, and there is hell, and there is goodness, and there is sin, and there is sin, and there is life in it. That's all I have to say. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0063par0136	In his speech, Mr. Orator, I refer to my statement that 77 million people living in Turkey have shown a false thesis on our religion, their understanding of our religion, and the 77 million...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0064par0137	In fact, you said the Qur'an was based on reading its own language.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0063par0138	Yeah, that's what I said.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0064par0139	Yes, please.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0063par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm re-signing what I'm saying. If our citizens in Turkey knew what God's Book ordered, what the Koran ordered, what he forbids, what he really forbids, and if they understood, everything would be different in Turkey, I say so. Is there violence in the Quran, or is there a search for innocent people in the Quran? Muslims are not merely prayers and pilgrimages. You won't get justice, you won't break the law, you won't get enough sleep when your neighbor's hungry, you won't get enough of the poor, you won't get the poor, you'll get the poor, you'll get the tongue out, you'll drink the thirsty dog when it's ready. It's that big of a Muslim thing. What you're saying, as you understand, or -- let me say, I don't want to tease all of you -- at least not by fulfilling five conditions of Islam, it's a rule, you'll do it, if you're a member of that religion, if you don't do it, you'll pay elsewhere, not in this world, but you're not a Muslim. This is you, not you! The man is not a Muslim, he is not a Muslim, he is not a martyr, he is not a Muslim. Then, what happened was that... he's not a Muslim without tolerance, he's not a Muslim without tolerance. That's how I understand religion, and I wish our whole nation would understand it. Our whole nation, Turkey, would be in a different place if they knew it wasn't Muslim who ate the rights. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0065par0146	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0066par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0063par0148	It's not over!
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0066par0149	No, no, not to explain, but to make a point.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0067par0150	There are no such provisions in the Civil Code, sir!
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0068par0151	You use it most of all, Mr. Tanal. I'll remind you next time.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0066par0154	Engin Bey always listens when our nation goes to mosques to speak, speak, speak, and speak. It's a good conversation in a good language, I'll tell you that first. Second: the nine-year republic is advertising. I do not agree in any way. There's no point in getting an article out of a tweet. I don't find it very meaningful to include social media in everyday life in such an important way. My respects.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0069par0157	Sir, it's a press release, not a tweet. It's comfortable, it's not press, it's not tweet.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0070par0158	I mean, if you're going to break down on your own, please go outside.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0069par0159	It's not a problem between us, my dear President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0070par0160	No, no, it's just been discussed; Mr. Altay told me, Mr. Bostanci said he didn't agree; okay, it's over. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers 1 to 29. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turhan Tayan. I'm trying to get it as smooth as possible until 7:00 p.m. so the TVs can watch you, and then everything's free. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0071par0170	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Bill of Law on the Building of National Mines Center No. 672. I salute the High Council. From the moment this bill began to be discussed, we witnessed some debates that we had been injured in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as regret. Just moments ago, there were mutual talks on Islam, philosophical conversations. I suggest that everyone read the interview that Dr. Ali Camakoglu gave the previous day. In fact, even if it were possible, even if our Civil Code had given its hand, while 550 MPs were present at the General Assembly, the former President would have been able to explain this speech to all the MPs and make them listen. My dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a place where the common mind is sought, found, and served in the service of the nation. The common mind, the common solution, emerges with the participation of all political parties. However, in recent years, unfortunately, the government has been throwing different issues into a bag that have nothing to do with each other and presenting them to the Supreme Assembly within the framework of the law, and the issues are not discussed enough. Today, this bill we're talking about looks like a bag. Now, as the Republican People's Party Group, we've brought up some constructive amendments to the issues that this bill contains, but we haven't been able to get enough attention and attention in the Commission, as in the previous issues. Now, my dear friends, even though we made a commitment in 2004 to clean up the Ottawa Convention on the removal of antipersonal mines that we approved and included, we couldn't do it until 2014. We now admit that we can do so within a period of 2022 years by extending it to 2022. My dear friends, we cannot justify the request and decision of other countries to ask for a postponement on this matter. The state of the Republic of Turkey is very different from the countries cited as examples. My dear friends, we are now busy clearing mines in our borders. By the time we exposed our concrete measures, our practices, Syria's friendship with Syria has been lifted and the longest bordered Syrian border has returned to its inn. Now, there are personnel mines in the Syrian border, not antipersonal mines in the Iraqi border. Unfortunately, from these borders, we are faced with a number of concrete events, events that have led to some very painful events that have brought Turkey into the world's agenda, developed, and became a subject to the world. Now, I strongly agree with the opinions of my friends who talked about these matters before me. In particular, Mr. Moroglu and our other friends have some opinions that I agree with. As the Republican People's Party, the use of landless peasants is extremely important for the evaluation of the land. Again, in this regard, the desire for transparency and regulation of tenders should be focused on our demands. Again, I would like to point out that the growing suicides among Turkish Armed Forces, especially among privates and privates in recent years, the issue of social and financial support for the families of suicides and privates, is a separate issue, but more serious, more humane and scientific work should be done in order to eliminate the environment that will prevent suicides within the Turkish Armed Forces, taking necessary measures. Again, I'd like to say that it's equivalent to a social-government understanding that privates and privates under arms are insured in the line of duty, and then, for the rest of their lives, when they have access to social security security security, their military premiums are paid by the state during the course of the military. Again, I said that this bill was a bit like a bag of legislation. My dear friends, there are now arrangements for the establishment of the Military Supreme Court. Recently, for understandable reasons, the government, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and military Supreme Courts have been seeking new arrangements on these matters, with a special attitude and attitude concerning the establishment and functioning of them. I'd like these issues to come to this House with a separate bill of law and to be discussed in more detail, broader time. Now, my dear friends, I'd like to say a few words to you about the problems of non-injured veterans after we've passed on this bill like this. You're going to say: "What does this mean? What does this mean?" My dear friends, the law on veterans and martyr families, are called non-employable veterans who were injured in the act of military and public service, and were not judged under regulations and regulations. A friend of ours, who was a prosecutor in Istanbul today, was severely injured, treated during an operation, but was sent to his barracks after treatment by the GATA to complete his military term, and is now the prosecutor's office because his loss rate was less than 40 per cent. The private and private, who have lost all his left hand, have lost less than 40 per cent of the limb, and must complete his military term and be put to life. In this way, 9,600 citizens expect attention in Turkey. The only thing that can be done is to change the Turkish Armed Forces Health Skills Rule. I'm sensing that the Ministry is involved in some work, but as a former Minister of National Defense, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask that this injustice be dealt with in your time, in your time. We really have 9,600 citizens under major trauma right now. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0072par0186	Thank you, Mr. Tayan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz; please come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0073par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Bill 672. I hereby salute your high council. This bill, of course, has come to our attention in a complex bill, which, apart from just clearing mines, is related to military service, about military deployment, including matters related to military health issues. Basically, when we look at the core, even though it's missing, as the National Party of Action, I'd like to first express that we are not opposed to this bill. Of course, here, as the speakers before us have mentioned, we also face a separate problem, especially when members of the Turkish Armed Forces, veterans, and those who face a number of problems during military service do not engage in a legal, legal status. On this occasion, first of all, I'd like to say that as we say in the written motions and speeches we've given to the Minister of National Defence, or in the Parliament, particularly in Turkey, the sergeants have a major problem, especially at the point of solving this problem, that it's too late, and that it's a major bleeding wound. We know, in particular, that there is a lack of defined deadline and that after a certain amount of time in the course of duty, there are a large number of expert sergeants, Privates, and Privates who can't bring bread to their home without knowing what to do, because they have quit being an expert sergeant in regard to the opportunities the law has given them, and they can't find the task in other public institutions. So to resolve this problem, I believe this Parliament... should be resolved immediately by the honorable members of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have been assigned to this area. To give you their numbers: over 20,000 of these groups -- which have been around 80,000 in the last year -- are facing separation from the Armed Forces, so if they get the chance -- there will be almost no men left there. So we know they'd all be dying to leave if the guarantee that they'd move to another agency was known to them. Because I believe we have an infinite number of demands coming to us at the point of aiding lawmakers in the ruling party group to transfer them to other institutions. I'd like to point out that we're also against something in this bill: the defense of the soldiers who committed suicide during their military service is positive that the legal costs of the defense will be met by the Ministry, the withdrawal of families by the baron's will, and that their fees will be paid by the state. But here, before the recruitment phase and during military service, it's a very different matter why these people have to commit suicide. Thus, suicide-related deaths and suicide-related injuries must be met by the government with absolute certainty. So these people here, they don't go out there. You evaluate them in the health institutions that you founded before you drafted them, and you say: "You are eligible for military service. This is a decision based on a psychological and physical assessment. Therefore, their physical and psychological trust during military time is entirely yours. Therefore, if there is a problem here, the social state must take responsibility for it. There are new regulations for Bedelli military service. Bedelli can be drafted, but people who can't afford it need to be a social state, and people who can't afford to pay for it, should be supported by the state during military service. Now, if he has money, he does it at a price, or he does it at a mandatory military service. I think it would be an opportunity for people who have at least no means to do their military duty, to receive social security premiums by the state during their absolute military service, as well as the opportunities given to others. There are children leaving military schools. After taking the military school exam, these young people, our children, are being evaluated for military personnel status. The people who left here, for some reason, both their own reasons and the ones that the institution has separated themselves from the military... may not remember the exact number of students in this example, but I do know that there is a really serious group of students. So, after these students left military schools -- the last bag of legislation dropped some prices -- think of these compensations they should have paid -- poor children in Anatolia -- believe that they are in no condition to pay. Especially those who are behind in payments, and you charge interest that's never been seen in loan sharks, 20 percent interest. There's a lot of information coming to us about this. These families are having a hard time paying their children back, and they're having real trouble. I'd like to submit your demands to Mr. Secretary of Defense at the point where this will be corrected. If you could actually address this situation with these cadets, or if there was any comfort in it, maybe some of them wouldn't have left their families in the lurch, and they wouldn't have gone any further. There was something the speaker just expressed, especially when he was serving as a soldier, which is the subject of the benefit of the state's resources of those who are in a state of disability and apology. And that's a very important issue. We also know that the National Department of Defense, especially the Health Department, is attempting to make new arrangements. In Turkey, I would like to say that it's a freak who doesn't exist in any country in the world to categorize the definition of the European standards by the degree of anatomic apology in the body. So you're sorry, you're blind, you're losing an eye, that's an apology -- there are fellow physicians among you, they know -- the rate of not seeing the full light is 32 percent, Mr. Secretary. Thus, we all know that those with an apology degree of less than 40 percent at the point of benefiting from certain rights have never been granted these rights in any way. Hence, a different arrangement has to be redeveloped. Again, we would like to point out that we strongly criticised the position of physicians serving at the Gulhane Military Medical Academy, especially earlier, under the full-time law of the Ministry of Health, in full-time law, in the education and research hospitals of professors and professors at universities and professors of medical schools and professors of the United States. You, as Minister of National Defence, will also discuss the situation with the Minister of Health if necessary, so you will have to support these physicians in this ministry, which you are responsible for. There was a very different arrangement. The full-time implementation of the professors at the education and research hospital has been made to the Council of Ministers, the universities to a completely specific law, but the physicians at the GATA, at the Gülhane Military Academy, have not taken advantage of any of those rights. And I think that's a great injustice and injustice. Basically, it's positive that this national mine operation center is based on the law. However, it would be more accurate to have a legal infrastructure for who will be used after the land that has been cleared of mines has been transferred to the treasure. So these lands that are going to be cleaned, including the fertile farmland, are going to be a source of Ranta again, and I think that these arrangements will not do much good to this country, to the great Turkish nation, and I salute your high council with respect, and I hope that the bill will be blessed and fortunate.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0074par0204	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0075par0206	Erol Dora will speak.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0074par0207	Mr. Erol Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0076par0209	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the First chapter of the Law on the Building of the National Mine Action Center, and on the first part of the First Amendment to Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Because of the scope of mine activity and the abundance of parties involved in these activities, it requires national and local coordination to address the country's mine problem. In this context, 2014 was a world without mines and a mineless Turkey with special importance in fulfilling its goals. As you know, the fifteenth year of the Ottawa Convention, which regulates the 2014 landmine bans, was the tenth year when Turkey sided with the agreement. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the mines in Turkey, were laid out around the borders of Syria, Armenia, Iran and Iraq in the 1950s, and the military facilities in the 1990s. According to data, Turkey does not have mines on its western borders with Greece and Bulgaria alone and with Georgia. Mines are located in the districts of Ardahan, Batman, Bingol, Bitlis, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Hakakari, Hatay, Iğdır, Kars, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa, Şırnak, Tunceli and Van. The total of minefields in Turkey is about 215 million square metres. Although land mines are found more at the borders, mines found in the interior areas far from the borders pose a great danger to civilians, especially to children. Almost all of the casualties take place in the cities we just counted. Apart from the border areas, mines laid around temporary outposts have not been cleared since the stations were moved, nor have international standards been marked. According to a statement released by the Ministry of Interior in 2010, 1,269 people were killed by mines from 1984 to 2009, while 5,091 were injured by mines. Signing the Ottawa Convention, Turkey had pledged to destroy mines in its stocks until 1 March 2008 and to clean mines with soiled land by 2014. The mines in the stocks have been destroyed, but there's no serious way of dealing with what's buried in the ground. The number of explosive materials in Turkey's war residue is unknown. Dear lawmakers, only 26,000 mines were destroyed from over 1 million mines buried between 1998 and 2012. Therefore, Turkey has pledged to claim an eight-year extension and to clear all its mines by 2022. Turkey's deadline request report states that mine removal will begin in 2015. These statements, in particular, have raised serious concerns about commitments to mine removal, which could be changed, that could be changed, that could be put back in history. Dear MPs, there has been no change in national legislation in Turkey under the Mine ban agreement. In this context, it is an important and positive development in the context of the establishment of a mine operation centre within the framework of this bill we discussed, in which the Ottawa Convention is a pave the way for fulfilling commitments to the Ottawa Convention and the entity states. Of course, the fact that the mine center is being built doesn't mean anything on its own. This centre must be run on the basis specified in international contracts. Again, an effective control mechanism must be established, including NGOs involved, to ensure that the work of the mine operating centre is properly supervised. In addition, it has been a long time since Turkey asked for an extension of mine removal by 2022, when mines were treated with damage to humans, animals and nature. Therefore, the government must take measures to shorten the next seven years. Precious lawmakers have blocked the use of mines in Turkey, meaning people's lives, as well as development of infrastructure, agricultural use and other purposes. These minefields, which extend for miles along Turkey's borders, are fertile land, but are not used for agriculture and development because of mines. Some of the villages along the border have pastured areas for animals in these minefields, and the village adults and children have to go to minefields to graze their animals, to satisfy their water requirements. Many small animals and cattle are also known to have been destroyed by mine explosions. The villagers continue to live at great risk because of the obligation to provide for them. In addition, mines prevent academic research, such as archaeological studies at the borders of Turkey, the discovery of cultural wealth. Minefields continue to pose a danger to both the locals and refugees. Mr. President, a study of the size of the mine victims of Turkey's treatment problems, reintegration programmes, and the economic problems of our citizens has never been done by any institution. As has been shown in various studies, the injuries, inoperability of people exposed to mine explosions also bring unemployment and economic poverty. Serious and concrete work on mine victims and their victims should be launched immediately towards data collection, rehabilitation, orientation and economic support programmes in line with the diversity of their problems. The struggle for the death of hundreds of civilians and soldiers around the world is a current issue of non-use and removal of landmines and free explosives, considered one of the world's most devious weapons, which has left thousands of people injured for life. Dear lawmakers, the existence of minefields, the death stories of those who set foot here, should be stopped from being unwarranted, homeless, armless, even without a look. Mine removals in all minefields must be accelerated, minefields must be marked clearly. A concrete step must be taken to ensure rehab and integration of mine victims and to meet the needs of mine victims and protect their rights. To reduce and end the number of citizens in need of mines and support, other support programmes must be created and implemented, particularly mine risk training. Mr. President, the only rehabilitation centre in international standards is the military rehabilitation centre in Ankara. As a priority, available, free and suitable prosthetics and rehabilitation services must also be presented for victims living in mined areas. Turkey has made a significant contribution to reaching a world goal without mines by being the entity state and actively attending international meetings of the treaty. The Mine Prohibition Agreement outlines a general framework for the destruction of mines and aiding victims of the entity's governments. The Mine Prohibition Agreement Review Conferences also form action plans for the implementation of the agreement, or a road map. In order to end the suffering caused by land mines, Turkey must step up its steps in the fulfilment of the Mine Ban Act obligations and in the survival of the Cartagena Action Plan, it must implement the necessary conditions urgently, it must meet them. Again, Turkey must clarify which national laws apply to ban use of antipersonal mines. The necessary legal arrangements for the use of mines and for criminal sanctions must be made, and the legal gaps must be removed as soon as possible. This concludes my conversation with feelings and thoughts, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0077par0226	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, the Kayseri MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0078par0230	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. Now, we've already expressed the opinion of our party regarding this national mine issue, and we've already stated that the military, especially the military, should take over this issue. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that we are very pleased to have an assessment taken within this framework. But, on the other hand, we're getting a lot of complaints about health issues. Now these guys go to the army, they lose a part in the military, they lose a little bit, at least 30 percent, and now they're really going through a lot of trouble with public service. It's particularly effective for his eyesight. There are a number of issues for such friends, in case they are less than 40 percent. We think it would be extremely useful to organize these, because we think it would be very important for the rulers of that country to make up for the loss of people who are serving their homeland, and we think it would be very important for them to be implemented in this way. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government must now explain to the National Assembly what is happening in the east and southeast. There have been incidents in Cizre, Cleopatra, Hakkari. What's going on around here, how does it happen? We want to see how far the government has lost its power around here. Now, various people come out here, they make some statements, they make opinions. Now -- what happened to me -- on October 10, 2014 -- I'd like to take into account a fact that I've received from the special forces -- there was an incident in the area where our police were martyrs, where we were martyrs. Now, it is described as: In this district of Bingol, being ambushed by a separatist terrorist organization, in an armed attack, Bingöl County Police Commissioner and one police officer were injured, Deputy Chief of State and one captain were killed. Some of the statements related to this matter have been made by the state, or by the state. However, after this attack was launched, police in the provisional district of Bingöl Genç were also informed of special operations and other security officers who had been assigned to the youth direction, and were instructed to come in with four armed members in the vehicle. Police immediately, special operations and military officers have started firing weapons at officers involved in the operation, who have long-barred weapons, who have been stopped by security forces when the vehicle comes to the point of implementation and identity checks on vehicles and other suspicious vehicles specified on the accession of the Youth District and other suspicious vehicles. Now, it's interesting that the officers involved in the operation have been deposed as a suspect in the Bingol Public Prosecutor's Office. Now, what's the use of telling this story differently, this first one. Second, in these areas -- everybody knows -- that, not only in the events that took place in Cizre, but in the cases that occurred in that region, we face such things as taxing, reporting, threatening, if they don't pay for them. It's out of control, out of size. The government will be directly responsible for the events that may arise tomorrow. If you're somehow on the road to an agreement with the PKK, then the PKK must act with good intentions and abandon its weapons above all else, but on the contrary, I think they're not listening to Abdullah Ocalan, and in this way I'm saying that there will be a great disaster for Turkey tomorrow. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0079par0238	Thank you. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Ramazan Can of Kurıkkale...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0080par0240	I give up.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0079par0241	Okay. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0081par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. This bill contains many concepts of national mines. I mean, is there an unofficial mine or not? Where did that phrase come from? If there are unofficial mines here, are these national mines just going to be wiped out, what is it? Do you think they'll be able to shed some light on that, my friends? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0082par0247	Mr. Commissioner, do you answer or do you answer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0083par0248	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0084par0249	Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Tanal. Interesting question. Of course, we're discussing an important issue in the Turkish legislature regarding the activities of our Turkish Armed Forces. The use of the word "National" can only be used in terms of a national defense, such as national education -- what more can I say -- in terms of telling it, to show it. Or should you not understand that the expression, as you ordered, is there a garyimill mine? Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0085par0252	Mr. President, I'd like to add to that, Mr. Secretary. As of the location of these mines, it's called a national mine, which has to be within the borders of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0086par0254	The national frontier...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0087par0255	Well, there must have been.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0088par0256	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0089par0257	Mr. President, thank you. Well, Mr. Secretary, there is no Secretary of Defense, but I think Mr. Secretary will. This is a mercenary, a lot of people will pay for it and go to the army. And a non-benefited, non-military, volunteering, obligated trustee; isn't there any way to give them insurance premiums and a small amount of money a month, to avoid a little word, to avoid words, words? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0090par0260	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0091par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. Through you, Mr. Ministera... a friend of ours from the political party speakers just now counted Batman in the provinces of minefields. I'm asking the Minister for an answer to whether or not there are mines in the territory of Batman County. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0092par0264	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0093par0265	Mr. President, thank you. The question of our friend Ali Halaman is that, no doubt, the last law we passed came with a number of provisions concerning the contractor and the others. They can be employed if they carry the terms for a certain fee. As a new idea, insurance premiums will be paid by the state if they do three years of contracting and private service. Other than that, no arrangements are being considered. The question of our friend Ziver Özdemir: there are 182 mines on our list. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0094par0269	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There's a motion in Article 1 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the relationship of the 1st amendment of the 672-line bill shall be changed under the terms of the agreement. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0095par0280	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0094par0281	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0096par0282	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0094par0283	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0097par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, you know, it's more than 100 articles of law, actually, not just mines, but we'd like to explain our views at a number of points as the Democratic Party of Peoples. Of course, it is important that the mines be cleaned in accordance with the Ottawa Convention. When it comes to the Syrian border, be careful, it is the Syrian border from the Habur Border Gate to our Habur Border Gate, which is the longest Turkey border. So, what's beyond the border? When we look beyond the border, really, there is no state anymore. There's Kobani resistance on one side, there's the Canton of Afrin, and there's the Canton of Cirice, and there's the regions of Ceylanpınar, Akchakale, and ISIS across the church, and there's the region of Syria. Now, when the national mine policy, the operating center is being created, the fertile land in this mined area also has its owners, and the age of these is the benefit of the people and the villagers who live there. And most importantly, for example, there is oil and natural gas at Dinçer and Kozluca in Şırnak and Mardin. In this minefield, in the oil and gas field, if mines are cleared now, one well will open at 50 meters, natural gas will come out at 1,500 meters, oil will come out at 2,000 meters, carbon dioxide will come out at 2,000 meters. So, we went as a mining commission, and we gave this report to the government, and it's a big flaw that it's not in this file. Here, of course, that's where the postponement comes from, but the government has to pay attention to this: what about the rogue mines? Every ISISman is walking around like a bomb, how are you going to hold these rogue mines now? We know about the mines at the border, we know about the border. These rogue mines exploded in Reyhanlı, exploded in Paris, exploded in Sultanahmet. They enter and leave from all sides. Here's the perpetrator's girlfriend in Paris, his wife, Hayat, coming in and out of Urbana, and everyone's a live bomb, a live mine. I think it's time to think about mine policy a little differently. Now, from Iraq to Habur Gate to Iran, there are common borders with Kurdistan regional management, a very zigzag, very steep mountain border area, from there to Iran, and from there to the Caucasus. Of course, it's very important for us to transfer our own resources and contracts to someone else to clean them up. That's why we call it "yes." Of course, we'd like to express immediately that thanks to the sensitivity of military suicides, families will get paid lawyers. What about the victims of these families? We've identified 6,000 suicide families. The fact that they're being paid to their parents, their parents, because we want to tell the government that you've been a paid soldier. You don't accept a denial of conscience. If you accept a denial of conscience -- and the decision is certain -- someone who is poor may not want to serve, and since he doesn't have the money to pay, he will take the right. Now, the poor one is being drafted, and the one with the money is being given an interesting note of betellimatics. He deposits the money, takes the thesis. When he is poor... the children of Anatolia will go and serve. This is a very non-equal approach. Here, this equation needs to be caught. If the government doesn't catch this equality, the sacred military duty will become a torment and everyone will start running away from it. The dangers of this are too great, I want to express it. We have our thoughts, our motions. It's important for both justice and their family to be taken care of. There are two more points in another motion, I'll explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0098par0293	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 2 that I have to read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the law of 672 rows, which is included in Article 2 of the law, shall be replaced with the terms of the article. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to propose and submit the need to change the 2nd article of the 2nd Amendment to the Establishment of the National Mine Action Center. Mustafa Moroğlu Turhan Tayan Mehmet Şeker (2) The National Mine Action Centre can also operate abroad if the National Defence Minister's proposal is appointed by the Council of Ministers' decision. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0099par0311	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0098par0312	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0100par0313	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0098par0314	Mr. Mehmet Sugar, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0101par0316	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the Law on the Building of the National Mine Action Center and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute you and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. Dear friends, we find the establishment of a national mine activity centre generally positive, but some questions need to be answered. First: While there are minefields on our borders, including Armenia, Iraq, Iran, we know that the largest and most important area is the Syrian border. Thus far, the clearing of minefields in this area has not been carried out due to the disturbances in Syria. Neither did your predictions of giving Assad a year's life, nor of entering Damascus in three hours. The turmoil in Syria does not seem to end. So, who's got their hands in whose pocket, no security, and the land mines in this area where the agents are circling, will they be able to clean up the national mine operation center? We do not know how or how it will be cleaned or finished by 2020, for six or seven years, without the length of a barley. There's no telling if we'll be able to safely clear mines on a border that you've turned to, where terrorists roamed the border, where bombs, guns, come and go from here to here and there. Now, I'm sure, as before, you won't admit that you can't control the Syrian border, that you've created a security weakness here, but I'm afraid you didn't agree before that the bomb-loaded vehicles that were moving within the borders of our country would one day cost our citizens the lives of our citizens and that I would warn them about this incident. As a matter of fact, a bomb went off in a car on August 20, 2012, at the center of Gaziantep, near the police station in our neighborhood, 10 of our citizens were killed. Again, I warned the ruling authority that the government should pay attention, that we don't have border security, that these bombs could be detonated in Hatay, or elsewhere, but the Justice and Development Party didn't listen to them either. On February 11, 2013, there was an explosion at the Cilvegözı Border Gate, 13 of our citizens lost their lives. On May 11, 2013, a bomb-loaded vehicle exploded in Reyhanlı, killing 53 of our citizens. Again, on February 15, 2012, I warned the government of this bench again, saying that the camp set at zero point in the church would set the stage for provocation, and that even the shooting with the shotgun on the other side would cost the lives of the people on this side; you did not accept it and you did not listen. Two months after my speech, two of our citizens were killed by a shooting. Come on, listen to the warnings this time, secure the border, no one gets hurt, and the mine-cleaning is fast and safe. And thirdly, what will be the situation of Turkish companies in the mining business that will be launched after this bill? There are hundreds of officers and soldiers who specialize in mines in Turkey, but there is no Turkish company that has done a mine this size alone. With an arrangement that we can bring in, we can force foreign mine cleaners to partner with the Turks so that both our country and our local firms can win. We need to put a condition on this bill to include 51 per cent of Turkish partners in the mine removal business on the borders of our country. Dear friends, there are $4 trillion worth of mine-cleaning jobs in the world. If we get Turkish companies involved in mine removal in our country, they get experience in this, and the world becomes a serious player in mine removal. We had an offer of law the other day, and I made it very clear that we received it from the villagers, from the rightful owners, when they were mined. After the mines have been cleared, there must also be an arrangement to be given to the landless villagers there, where we have to give it to the Turkish farmers in the area, and we have to open it to them. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0102par0324	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the law of 672 rows, which is included in Article 2 of the law, shall be replaced with the terms of the article. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0103par0331	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0102par0332	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0104par0333	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0102par0334	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0105par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really surprised at the government sometimes, guys. Why am I surprised? First, they tried to tender this mine removal to Israel. When there were reactions, they began to form a national mine center after the opposition. The Interior Ministry is also trying to clear mines on the eastern border with European Union funds. Guys, we live in this geography. Each of you -- there's a majority of soldiers here -- do you want ISIS on your border; do you want the PYD, the people who live there, the Turkmen, the Suryans, the Assyrians? If you have a safe border neighbor there, the mine is a story. Give me the mine job, we don't need to build a national center, we'll have them cleaned up in 30 days. Look, we're doing it as an opposition party. I mean, why? If it's wanted, it'll be clean. I lived in a district on the Syrian border. I know how it's been cleaned, how the smugglers cleaned it, how it was cleaned up in time, but believe me, we know about the people who cleaned 700 mines with their hands. I mean, if he gets a little tired, it'll all work out. Then a safe neighbor, a safe ally, a safe friend, a safe strategy, a thousand years old. And as it was a thousand years later, when you set it up, you solve the mine problem, you solve it together, because there's land on both sides. Now, the other thing I want to bring to you right now is that when refugees and foreigners become citizens... when they're 22 years old, if they've served in the military, they'll be exempted from military service. Can't we be a little more specific about this? We have 2 million Syrian guests. We don't give status to any of the people from the east, who once lived on Ottoman territory because of our reservations in the contract. Why don't you change his law? Give me the status of the client. No one comes from the east, they become refugees from Europe. Why? First of all, name it. The guest will not be a guest for four years or five years. You will say "Multiper," and you will give him his right and his law, and you will give him his due when he becomes a citizen. There's something wrong here. Not with the Military Law alone. Look, I'll tell you something else: this is the NATO POL, 3,200km pipeline at 37 points. You've built pipelines from ports, pipelines from Zaho, for planes, fuel for NATO, vehicles, military vehicles, that sort of thing. And you've stored a million cubic metres of it. There's no limit to the fugitive here, folks. If you take the amount of fugitive that's happening here, you'll solve the economics of this event just by preventing the fugitive. I mean, I mean, for God's sake, is it a soldier's job to buy fuel, store fuel? Let someone else do the pumping, the gas station. I mean, you've already given food to the private sector, hand this over, and that's how it's done. There's a mistake here because there's a lot of money in the fuel. The other thing is, there are soldiers here again, I want to ask you: when we take very concrete steps about the solution process, we say stop, the talks are walking healthy, we're going from Ada. We're going from Kandil to Cizre, we're talking one by one, we're not talking about things, we're shooting armored vehicles without plates, we're shooting randomly, the 14-year-old boy who paints is dying, the business room worker is dying. Yesterday, a 12-year-old boy was killed playing ball in Cizre. Moreover, our co-chairs are being killed while making a statement in Cizre. They're leaving after they've made a statement, calm down, no incidents, the process is working well. I'm telling you what the autopsy report says: it's two inches long, two inches thick plastic. Mr. Arinc, what is this stuff, rubber bullets or what? In the kid's brain, the autopsy report from his head, we're talking about a 2-inch-sized, 2-inch-sized plastic. That's what medicine says. It's the government's job to remove it. There's a provocateur, and it's not something to say about who's in it. Look, everybody wants an explanation, and they want opposition, and we want one. We'll be there tomorrow. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Who's doing this? It could be the government's government that's doing something wrong. It's the government's job to remove it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0106par0344	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 3 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to request and offer to add a council to the establishment of the National Mine's Action Centre, which will be established after the declaration of the 3rd Amendment to the Constitution of the Law on Some Laws (d) Article 1 (d) of Articles 3 (d). Mahmut Tanal Mustafa Moroglu Mehmet Şeker İlhan Demirözı Ramazan Kerim Özkan Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0107par0355	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0106par0356	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0108par0357	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0106par0358	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0109par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. The bill, of course, is about the removal of mines on our borders, but just now, of course, in the questions, I asked our Dear Minister: would he be a national or an unofficial member of the mine? Another concept has come up, Mr. Hasip Bey has expressed: loose landmine. So, as a result, the concepts used by the lawmaker need to be specific, clear, understandable. It's not really the right concept for a landmine, an illegitimate, a loose cannon, or so on, because the lawmaker shouldn't be dealing with useless things, the phrases he's going to use should be specific and clear. For example, again, in Article 11 of the same bill, we're authorizing the Ministry to a certain limit, about the planning here, about the projects, about the budget, about the money. Now, up to a certain limit... what is this limit? There's got to be a catch. It is contrary to law enforcement and law enforcement technique to make such uncertain arrangements, uncertain arrangements, regardless of the limitations of the law. Here we come again, again, the 8th joke of the 8th article (2): the official is in charge of taking on widespread loads of future years as part of projects in the national mine operation plan. I mean, here it smells of a tender again, a project and so on. So, this mine-cleaning thing, what's it gonna be? Whose land is this here? The 44th article of our Constitution states that the state takes the necessary measures to preserve and improve the efficiency of the land, to prevent its loss by erosion, and to provide land to a peasant who has no land or enough land. Well, in this law, it should be regulated under normal circumstances, and given to those who are without land after this mine removal. Anyway, there's no wealth and no equal income in our country. When wealth and income are not equal, the inequality of this land's property also causes the inequality of income. For him, the only way to reduce this gap in society, to reduce that distance is to give free land to our landless citizens after they have been cleared, and it is necessary and necessary, according to Article 44, of our Constitution. The current arrangement stays in this space, stays in the air. The political government has some plans and projects in Article 8 and Article 11 that I have just read. He has also left the Ministry of Ministers in charge of these plans and projects. It's not a clear and clear concept, it's uncertainty. This uncertainty needs to be fixed as soon as possible. In the 6th article (2), you remember, there were these VIP appointments and so on. The Ministry is authorized to receive an officer without examination in Article 6 (2) of Article 6 of Article 5 of the Article 59 of the Law on State Officers No. 657 concerning the appointment, which is the exception to the hiring of an officer. So we're seeing another version of contractual recruitment here in the (2)th joke. Why? It's the same kind of authority we give the Ministry in the third joke. Again, what needs to be done here should be based on the exam system. Otherwise, the nepotism system will make him feel like he's here, and our citizen will be a victim of that. I would like to ask that these shortcomings be corrected in comparison to what I've stated. Thank you all for your hard work.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0110par0369	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 4 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 5 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I'd like to introduce and propose the need to add "a board hand-to-management" to the subsection of Article 1 (b) of Article 5 of the Fifth Amendment to the establishment of the current National Mine Action Center. Mustafa Moroglu Mehmet Şeker Mahmut Tanal Aykan Erdemir Ramazan Kerim Özkan İlhan Demiröz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0111par0382	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0110par0383	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0112par0384	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0110par0385	Mr. Aykan Erdemir, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0113par0387	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our citizens who are watching us on the screen. This is an extremely important bill. The Republic of Turkey, on March 1, 2004, sided with the Ottawa Convention, committed in a sense to the destruction of all mines in stocks and in ten years. But unfortunately, it's been 11 years since we joined the contract in 2015, but the land mines are still in the ground, and they're still taking lives. First of all, we have to admit that there's a flaw, there's a flaw, and Turkey is inadequate. Yes, at the moment, we have taken up until 2022, and Turkey must overcome its new obligation until 2022. The establishment of the national mine operation centre is also an important step in this direction. But the heart would wish that this operating centre's bill would not be exploited by a bag of logic and that many other irrelevant materials involved in this bill would be compressed by the importance of the mine operation center. And I see this as another reflection of the unqualified logic of law enforcement that now becomes a habit, and of disrespect for the law enforcement boards. Turkey will have to get rid of this bag of logic with the mines as soon as possible. There's not much to say about mines. I want to deliver the message of Turkey from his mouth, from his tongue, from his song, from his web: I'm in the middle of something. With a warm dream. It doesn't light up. It doesn't touch. Don't seek healing from me, I don't have my hands anymore. Don't break the tobacco. Yes, mines that were once considered common are now considered a crime of humanity, and I hope there are days of peace in Turkey's future without mines. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to another danger that may not be the size of mines, but it is also a matter of protecting personal data, which is causing our citizens to be deeply upset, disturbed, victimized. You know, this week, the European Union's Integration Commission received the Protection of Personal Data Bill. It will be held next week at the Justice Commission, the original commission. This is a bill of law in the lightest language, which includes open discrepancies to the European Union's acquistions, which clearly violates the European Union's directives and directly contradicts many of the European Union's Court of Justice's decisions. It would want the Ministry of Justice to internalize the European Union's understanding of governance, participation, to come together with civil society, sector representatives and senior users and to implement the law on personal data in preparation for the Protection of Personal Data Bill. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice was both inadequate in its understanding of governance and coverage and participation, and clearly inadequate in its acquish to the European Union. If the European Union had been aware of its acquisitor, the Protection of Personal Data Law would not have made such grave mistakes in many matters, particularly the independence of the board. We want to warn you that today, just as in this law, when it's too late, instead of talking at a time when it's not possible to correct it after it's too late, we want to point out that a bill that hasn't yet come to the General Assembly is full of huge mistakes, that it's contrary to the European Union's acquisitor, and that it doesn't reflect the common mind. While the road is near and cannot establish a subcommittee in the European Union's Integration Commission, let's withdraw this bill ahead of the Justice Commission, and write the law on the protection of personal data in accordance with the European Union's acquisitors, in accordance with universal human rights and freedoms, with common intelligence, sectors, civil society and citizens. I hope this warning doesn't fall on ears that don't hear, eyes that don't see. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0114par0410	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 6 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 7 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 8 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 9 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to propose and submit to you to change Article 9 in the following way, which is part of the Law on the Establishment of the National Mine Action Center. Mustafa Moroglu Mehmet Şeker Turhan Tayan Mehmet Günal Mahmut Tanal Aykan Erdemir İlhan Demirözüs Yusuf Halaçoğlu Refik Eryılmaz MADDE 9- (1) The purchases of goods and services for mine activities by the Centre are provided as part of Article 3 (b) of Article 4/1/2002 and Article 3 of the Public Contraction Act 4734. In equal terms, domestic firms are given priority. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0115par0428	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0114par0429	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0116par0430	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0114par0431	Mr. Eryilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0117par0432	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 9 of the Law Bill No. 672. We find the amendment motion positive, we find it important and we support it. Of course, the legal arrangement to clean and distribute minefields on our borders to those in need was a request that we had previously actually put on the agenda of Congress, which, of course, made us happy to be put into effect. However, I would like to point out that it is important, of course, that the mines present at our borders be cleaned and distributed to those in need, but we would also like to say that we expect an urgent effort from the government to clear the two-legged mines that surround our borders. Today, unfortunately, our borders are under siege and invasion of radical radical fundamentalist groups from 83 countries. As we clear the mines beneath our lands, we ask the government for an urgent application, a policy, to eliminate these terrorist groups that pose a threat to the security of the country, to get our borders off our borders, and to turn our borders into a secure area. Dear lawmakers, the attack on Charlie Hebdo, a comic magazine in France, caused the deaths of 12 people, has caused reactions all over the world, condemned. In the same way, we strongly condemn this attack. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President has also expressed that they strongly condemn any kind of terror as the Republic of Turkey -- whatever it takes -- they have a clear stance, they have no religion or nation of terrorism. However, in practice, we see that these explanations do not come to life, that these reproach messages are not sincere. You, on the one hand, are posting reprimands for a terrorist attack in France, and you can't turn terrorists from 83 countries to a neighbouring country in your own country right next to you into a headquarters, you can't open your borders, you can't deliver weapons to them. On the one hand, you say, "The terrorist has no religion, no language, no race." You say, "On the other hand, you're going to support a neighboring country, in order to change the administration there, you're going to provide them logistical support, you're going to entertain them in five-star hotels, you're going to treat them in private hospitals. Dear lawmakers, look, these allegations are not abstract claims. These allegations have been entered into the court's files, official records. Open up, look, Adana 7. At the High Criminal Court, he entered the official records of the court, where the weapons that were captured in those MIT trucks, supposedly sending food aid to the Turkishmen in Syria, were sent by whom. Dear lawmakers, the whole world has seen what happened to the prosecutors who stopped those trucks, military personnel, they've all been banished, and many of them have been charged with high-profile charges of treason. Currently, there are 32 patriotic military personnel and military personnel from all ranks on trial in Adana. We went to watch the last trial with our congressman friends, and they wouldn't even let us watch that trial. That's why we say, if you're really in a position to stand up to terrorism, you'll first withdraw this support you've given terrorists for three and a half years. Turkey has no credibility in this sense, and Turkey has become a country around the world that supports terrorists. I expect you to give up your policies immediately and initiate policies that will immediately deter the country from the position of a country that cooperates with terrorists. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0118par0440	Thank you. Before voting on the motion, the Commission's president has a request to amend it.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0119par0442	Mr. President, we need to make a correction here to complete the meaning. It's done in my door and in these purchases...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0118par0443	Yeah, copy that.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0119par0444	In these purchases... it makes more sense if we put it in the form of a sentence.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0120par0445	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0118par0446	I'm gonna have to kick this in, Mr. Botanci, just a second. At this request of the Commission, I submit to your votes the motion that the government has taken: those who have agreed... those who have refused... are accepted. I submit to your votes the 9th article in this proposed framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0121par0450	Mr. President, for the record. Turkey is not a country with a double standard for terrorism, it is against terrorism in the Middle East as well as against terrorism in Paris. Whether its source is the gang or the official-looking state, Turkey's attitude is clear.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0122par0451	Including the PKK?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0121par0452	Our interest in Syria is in humanitarian aid.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0122par0453	Does that include PKK terror?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0121par0454	Other than that, there is no logistical support, no help at all.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0122par0455	Including ISIS?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0123par0456	I'd like to say something, Mr. President, to file a report.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0121par0457	Syria has a regime that kills over 100,000 civilians. That regime is the terrorist. I'd like to underline that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0124par0459	We're filling in five minutes. Okay, thank you. Now, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 11 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 12 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 13 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 15th article of the framework of the current Law Bill 672 rows from the draft text of the following articles to be identified accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Kemalettin Aydın Sevim Savarer Türkan Dağoğlu Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0125par0476	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0124par0477	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0126par0478	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0124par0479	Read the reason, please. The Bedelli military application is intended to be removed from the draft text of Article 6582. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In the agreed motion framework, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 16 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 17 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 18 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 19 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 20: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 21 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 22 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 24 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 25 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 26 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 28 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 29 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The vote of substances in chapter one is complete. Deputy Group Chairman, you're in charge, aren't you? I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0127par0500	Yeah, yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit03spe0124par0501	Okay, I'm gonna take a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-15sit04spe0124par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 43rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 672. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Nuclear Research Organization (CERN) Republic of Turkey in the 6th place of the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, in which the Agreement is eligible for ratification of the Joint Member Status in CERN. President Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (January 20, 2015) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I want to thank all of my fellow congressmen, especially members of the group, and have a good weekend.
