tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I wish all my fellow congressmen good work. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz, who asked for a comment on some public investments left unfinished in Afyonkarahisar Province. Congressmans, if I could have a moment of silence, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0002par0012	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. My constituency, Afyonkarahisar AKP, still in the 13-year period of the AKP, still in the 58th place of the habitable provinces, still has a school deficit of around 1,300. As many as 2,200 of the 8,500 norm teachers' staff are still empty. In the beginning of your initial activities, the Kobytepe Institute for Agricultural Research was shut down, the staff was disbanded, the buffalomen were sent from right to left. The facility has been handed over to the AKÜ to investigate the condensation, which is an important subject of opium cream and sausage on demand and need, and its present condition is a heartbreak, a pity, a sin. You shut down the Department of State Supplies, disbanded your staff. Lojmans, administrative buildings, climated warehouses are ruined, home to drunks, hobos. I think you'd like it very much, although it's been said over and over and over again, there's no one to look at it, it's a waste, it's a sin. Meteorology 5. The District Directorate's five-story building is relatively new, with administrative buildings and housing, solar-powered, natural gas, but only in one of the most valuable parts of the city, Meteorology 5. The District Department has completely evacuated this building and are trying to serve in prefabricated barracks. What happened to strengthening this building if it's risky? Are you going to build up here, or are you going to tear it down and rebuild it? Or will the Department of Meteorology go with or shut down with someone else? It's a real shame, a pity, a sin, in its present form.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0003par0016	Mr. Yilmaz, if I may have a moment of your time, I'll add it to your time. Congressmans, you may continue your conversation outside. We're in negotiations right now. I can't hear the speaker, they can't hear. Please, I'd like you to be sensitive about this. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. On the other hand, thermal Police Physical Treatment and Rehab Centre, which has been under construction for years, has been temporarily accepted despite its many shortcomings, but has been waiting for the opening for six or seven months. I went to the facility on January 4th, and I wish I hadn't. Believe me, what I see is a disgrace, no guards, no doors open, the wind blows from somewhere, like horror movies, everywhere, everywhere. Is this any way to take care of government property, public property? I wonder how they can make the temporary acceptance of such a structure, it's a shame, it's a sin. You shut down our SECA factory in Tea County, the actual employee, the supplier of raw materials, the bearer, and about 1,500 families were left out of work. A pool builder's been made, out of production, sold the junk to scrap shops for twice the price of sale. And now there is neither any work nor any additive to it. Our tea district was practically punished. He's gone back to the dried-up mill, it's a shame, it's a sin. Again this year, Afyon, who broke dirty air records with the number of particles, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide rates, surrendered to the black winter because of the lack of insight and inability of local executives. Outside the main arteries, citizens are waiting for the black wind to blow, as they call it, to get rid of the snow. Opium doesn't deserve to suffer so much, it's a shame, it's a sin. You have kept our Afyon-karahisar brethren occupied and deceived them. You have given them good tidings of inflation. The good news is of no value. You negotiated the end-of-work with the contractors at the affraised, gaudy groundbreaking ceremonies. It is our duty to follow them in the name of the Afyonkarahisars, in the name of the public, in the form of our leveled and responsible policy. From here, I ask you from the stand of this nation: Mr. Eroglu and Mr. Suat Kılıç were also present at the groundbreaking ceremony of the sports complex, which was based on a thousand times. The contract with the contractor would be completed on 19 May 2013 and will be in service. What happened? Today is January 20, 2015. When is this sports complex going to end? Even the fact that dressing rooms and toilets have been forgotten and built in the project is a sign of how seriously you take this job; it's a shame, it's a sin. In December 2011, again, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay and Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, who attended Turkey's most... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You were going to add, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0005par0028	Yes, I'll add it to you for about 15 seconds. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. Günal announced that construction would be completed on December 19, 2012, as it is customary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today is January 20th, still nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling from this bench -- you've taken up too much time -- waste is forbidden, right is forbidden, stealing is a sin and a crime...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0006par0034	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0004par0035	It's a sin to touch the capital. I salute all of you with such feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, who asked for a comment on the January 20th Baku massacre. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0007par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Today is January 20th, the 25th anniversary of the 20 Yanvar Baku massacre, in other words, January 20th. What happened on January 20th? Dear MPs, the Red Army of the former USSR, who sought independence and gathered at Azadiye Square for this purpose, entered the people of Azerbaijan with tanks, armoured vehicles, and were martyred by more than a thousand people, and was again injured and lost. Thanks to those martyrs, today Azerbaijan is on his way to independent Azerbaijan. I hereby honor and thank the Baku martyrs. Those of you who went to Azerbaijan have seen it, and those martyrs lie in carnations. I say God rest their souls. Again, right next to you is our Turkish martyrdom. You know, the troops under the command of Nuri Pasha, who went to Baku (Baku) during the first World War, where the Turkish soldiers who were martyrs again lie side by side with their brothers from Azerbaijan, side by side, in sheep. Again, as you know, in the Battle of Çanakkale, our brothers from Baku, Gence, Hodja, Azerbaijan, who came from Çanakkale, supported the Republic of Turkey in the Battle of Çanakkale, they fought with the Ottomans at the time. Today they lie side by side with our soldiers in the martyrdom at Çanakkale. And I remember them with respect and gratitude. Thanks to those martyrs, Azerbaijan is on his way as the shining star of the Caucasus, and very serious energy in our country is undersigning transportation projects. Today Turkey is the gateway to Central Asia, Azerbaijan and Caucasus. Sir, Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline and Baku-Tiflis-Kars Iron Road projects are also important economic projects that connect two countries, one nation and two states. Relations between Azerbaijan and Turkey are an unprecedented relationship between any other state. The joy of Azerbaijan, as Azerbaijan, the founder of our Republic, said, is, of course, the joy of the Turkish nation, our joy, and also Azerbaijan's grief is our grief. Today is the day of Azerbaijan's grief, so we too are suffering with our Azerbaijan brothers. In fact, we did say, but this torch of freedom that was burned by the martyrs in Azerbaijan on January 20th spread to all Soviet republics, leading to the independence of other nations, along with other Soviet republics in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Therefore we do not grieve for the martyrs, but may God bless their souls that they have established Azerbaijan, the independent, the independent. Just as we honor and thank those who are martyrs in our Battle of Salvation, we honor and thank those who give their lives for Azerbaijan. Hopefully, 20 percent of the land that is currently occupied by Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) will be free Karabakh, Karabakh, Karabakh, Karabakh, Karabakh, Karabakh, and that will be the land of independent Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), and we will remember 20 January in Karabağ, I respectfully salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. Original. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Erzurum MP Adnan Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0009par0060	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about today's massacre in Baku, Baku, on January 20, 1990. Dear MPs are a very important date for the Turkish world on January 20th. January 20, 1990 was the date of the Baku massacre. January 20 is bitter, it's tears, it's sadness. Turkey and the Geography of Azerbaijan are a geography of sadness and pain. We face this painful reality almost every day. Look, we see in Syria that the sight of inhuman violence, the pain and the tears in our geography continue, unfortunately. Similar horrors were committed in the early 1990s to our Azerbaijan brothers in Baku, Karabakh, Hodjalı. On January 20, 1990, the Soviet army, with its own cold tanks, rifles, cannons, chose a cold night, especially when all the people were asleep, and took advantage of the weakest moment of the people. The heat of the independence fire within the people of Azerbaijan has never felt cold tanks and cold night, and they have resisted the invasion with axes and sticks in their hands. As the shooters did not calculate when attacking Baku with this violence, these attacks triggered the fire of independence in Baku, Azerbaijan. Dear friends, Baku, on January 20, 1990, on February 26, 1992, the massacres of Hodjas... soon became independent of Azerbaijan. Thank God Azerbaijan is a rising star in the Caucasus today. No independence is free of charge, and no effort goes unrequited. As a result, dear friends, today Azerbaijan is truly one of the largest countries in the region. Many of the sorrows and sufferings of the Turkish and Islamic world were carried from the 20th century to the 21st century. In fact, even though they confessed in the books they wrote in the newspapers and television interviews, they still did not appear before the judge. They've rewarded some of them, let alone punish them. In January 1990, Soviet tanks entered Baku. In the same year, Gorbachev received the Nobel Peace Prize. But we believe that justice will come sooner or later. It's up to us not to forget and forget the pain. We cherish and cherish those martyr brothers. Precious members of the 20th century, the 21st century does not carry only sadness, but also a longing. For 20 years, the toad has longed for freedom. Hopefully, we'll try to stop this longing. Our duty is unity and unity, to fight them. I hope both Turkey and Azerbaijan will be stronger if we join hands. Thus, the sadness of Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Azerbaijan) is our joy and joy. We will carry out the word of Haydar Aliyev and Haydar Aliyev. One nation has to hit our hearts the same way in order for the two states to become one. How well the late Mehmet Akif Ersoy said: "No enemy can enter a nation without entering; "The heart can't digest the ball as long as it hits." I hereby ask for mercy from our brothers from Azerbaijan, who died in Azerbaijan, Karabağ, Hodjalı, and 20 January massacres. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0010par0069	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation; I'll have the motions read separately. In third place, I'm going to have the council read a summary of the motion, since the motion for research is more than 500 words. However, the full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the Mining Law took effect in 2004, the quarry was given a random license. Despite the fact that quarry businesses should be at least three miles [5 km] from drinking water sources, the issue was not noted, according to the TÜBITAK report. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the state and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health, and to prevent pollution. Also, the 63rd article titled "History, the preservation of culture and nature's assets," titled "The State provides protection of the assets and values of history, culture and nature, and for this purpose it takes supportive and encouraging measures." It's arranged in shape. Of course, "of course, wealth and resources are under the government's rule and savings. The right to search and operate these belongs to the government. For a certain period of time, the state may grant its right to the real and legal authorities." It's in shape. Article 169, which regulates the protection and development of forests, states: "The state makes the necessary laws and measures to preserve and expand its forests. The government has control of all the forests. The ownership of the state forest is insurmountable. State forests are run and run by the law. No activity or action that could harm the forests is permitted. Crimes committed in order to burn the forest, destroy the forest, or narrow it down cannot be taken into general and private amnesty." It has its rule. In fact, the damage to people, animals, environment, subterranean water sources, air, and many things that we can't even count, should be stopped and done immediately, as we call the quarry, the limestone furnace, the coal mines, the people, the animals, the environment, the surface water supply, and many other things that we can't even count. The amendments in favour of the owners of the stove are granted without any research, without consideration of the damage to the environment and the tissue in the region. It is also a big problem that licenses for such furnaces are issued by various institutions. There must be studies of the chaos that this issue creates and continues. Search warrants, T.C. According to the current maps and information available by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources Department of Mining Affairs, the location of the furnace is given without being seen or examined. After that, business licenses for the municipality-wide furnaces are given by the relevant municipalities, and business licenses for Januarys outside the municipality are granted by the county's private administrations. Many quarryes use dynamite with permission from the Ministry of Interior. The noise pollution and tremors caused by explosives have a negative effect on human health during the extraction of material in the quarry. The dust also affects vegetation and water. The construction of the high-speed train (YHT) has been allowed to close the quarry, which was closed years ago due to its damage, and many additional quarry calculations have not been calculated. We open the Constitution's 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly Council, under Articles 104 and 105, to investigate the issues of this issue, to determine and implement the measures and solution proposals that may be taken, to determine and implement the actions of our forests and resources entrusted to us from our future, and to inform our great Parliament and our people. [[Hatay]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 4) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Aydın]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 22) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Many cities in Europe are built on the edges of water waste. Ankara, known as a dry and thirsty country, is actually a city rich in water resources. Many streams and teas pass through the middle of the capital, and they flow quietly and quietly, because they're all covered. Kavakıdere, Hoşdere, Dikmen Creek, Bentderesi, Tülsu Deresi, Bülbüldesi, Aldemlik Deresi, Cypriot Creek, Haci Deresi, Tütsu Deresi, Çükük tea, Hatip tea, Bayındır Deresi, Kütlugün, Kepir, İğdeli, Macun, Ergazi, Süğütütlü, İmrahor, Teaway, Cevizlidere, Kirazlidere, Kirazlıdere are waiting to be saved from the ground. The rapid population growth with rural-based migrations, the distorted urbanization, the unplanned development, the zoning rants, the wrong place of choice, has been contaminated by the areas that feed the water. When the waste of the city was given to the rivers, it was completely destroyed, and in the last sixty years, the city lost its water supply, its land, its vineyards, and its gardens, its clean air, its numerous flora and faunas, and tried to cover up the rivers that spread the stench, and to hide themselves. Today, Ankara streams, with the avenues, subways, are still functioning. However, preventing the natural flow of streams, closing waterbeds will cause much more problems. Experts repeatedly note that the settlements established in the creek beds are too risky for floods, landslides and earthquakes. A few months ago, in the subway collapse, the unfortunate death of a citizen reveals once again the responsibility and conscious approach to the reforming of Ankara creeks. Ankara's main requirement today is water, which is broken in its ecosystem. The water Ankara seeks is not far away, but within itself, beneath itself. When Ankara finds its streams, when it brings its water to the ground, it will have its natural balance. With all that money, artificial lakes, fountains can be built, a city flowing through Ankara, green and green around people, cooling the environment, surrounded by ducks, swimming around them, trying to catch fish. Before the creeks are reformed, the urban transformations launched quickly before the Ankaras are restored are vital to Ankara, which requires one more stop and reconsider. It is the right of both nature and Ankara to take advantage of such rich natural water supplies. It is imperative that the measures taken to restore Ankara's destroyed streams, streams, and rehabilitate them naturally, restore the natural balance, and reunite the Ankarans with the rich water supply they have, and the scientific work be carried out. For these reasons, we propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution. 23/10/2012 [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Erzincan]] [[Amasya]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] 20) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 23) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Who are the people who caused the scandal on the 2010 KPSS exam that needs to be investigated? With ex-Presidents and executives being sacrificed, why is the current President still in office despite all the abuses? Why don't the government's summit make their commitments to the previous president as well as to the new president? The real goal here should be to capture the OSD with its entire staff and design it in their own way. These test scandals and staff exchanges at the OSCE must be investigated and all facts are to be revealed to the public. Because if the previous president and his team were guilty, there wouldn't be scandals like this in the next president's time. If the scandals in the 2010 KPSS exam are thoroughly investigated, the real goal will be different. In recent years, many SNS tests have produced doubts. In order for hundreds of thousands of people prepared to endure these trials to not go to waste and to address the trials that have been inflicted on them, we would like to announce that a parliamentary study of the Constitution should be opened under the 98th, TBMM Institution Articles 104, 105, and 105, in accordance with the Articles. [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] 24) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 27) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 28) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] Due to various irregularities in the OSYM tests and the irregularity of the 2010 KPSS exam, the president at the time, Mr. Ünal Peninsula, has been charged with resigning. During the appointed President Ali Iron period, irregularities and scandals continued to increase. But something so interesting is happening that the leaking of questions is starting to seem like normal in society. While the former president was being forced to resign, he said he vouched for the government's summit to protect the appointed president. The 2010 KPSS exam showed that 350 people were given questions and did all the questions asked. As responsible for this, Mr. President, the Ünal Peninsula has been shown and, like any honorable person, has resigned. There have been several similar irregularities in later exams, but President Ali Demir, who was never asked to resign by the authorities, made fun of the public as if he had made fun of society, but there was no copy. In 2010, during the Ünal Peninsula, more than 360 candidates at the KPSS did 120 rights in 120 on the training sciences test. Mr. Ünal Pestilence resigned after an open-school exam revealed all the answers to the questions of a petty officer. The 2010 Medical Master's exam suggested that four problems were wrong. As the trial went on until the DA's office, OSI admitted the questions were wrong after a year and a half. A code scandal broke out at the YGS. Ali Demir refused first, then there's a password, no copy. Some candidates' scores were miscalculated. Four students entering the YGS in Diyarbakır have lost their answer keys. The 2011 ALES exam was missing questions at a school in Izmir. 75 of the 100 questions in the second stage medical doctor's manual came out of the 2011 level detection exam for higher education abroad are the same as the previous year's questions. The second session of the 2011 KPSS continued, with questions asked in the morning dropped on the Internet. 2012 LYS points have been miscalculated. In addition, many tests by other institutions, such as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, have found that there are many irregularities in police purchases, petty officers' tests. However, as noted above, the authorities have been taken into armor as if they were normal when no action has been taken against them. Prof. was the only one in charge of irregularities during the 2010 KPSS exam. Dr. The Ünal Peninsula and its team have been shown. After the president's resignation, they tried to destroy his team, and they succeeded. The questions on the KPSS 2010 exam were never revealed who leaked them, where they came from and who they were given to. Prior to AKP rule, the OSCE was known not only as Turkey, but as the most reliable test centre in the world. Here, if we go further, you can see where the members of the management staff before 2010 won their children. So that many of these executives will be seen to win the second course of education or places that don't require high points. So in the period before 2010, even before 2006, it also explains why exams after 2010 should be compared. After the 2010 KPSS exam, almost all of the staff, board members, office heads have been changed. As these changes are made, no former staff has been given the right to take legal action, especially with regulations made by the chairmanship of the Kingdom's 17.2,2011/6114 on the Agency and Missions of the Select and Placement Centre. In particular, when new staffs were formed, there was a serious distinction - the impression that people were being placed according to their beliefs, not according to their abilities, their knowledge, their skills. It is believed that this is done in all institutions, that it is done openly and bravely. Although it's not done, in practice, it's a fact. It is the discovery of people who caused the scandal on the 2010 KPSS exam. After the scandals of the exams, when the former president and his friends were sacrificed, why is the current president still in office despite all the scandals? Why is it that no official has spoken for the previous president within the new president? The investigation of these scandals and the exchange of personnel at the OSD and all facts must be revealed to the public. In particular, the staff that gives the questions is known to be still within the institution and is considered to be continuing their duties. The scandals in the 2010 KPSS exam must be thoroughly investigated. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Commissions for the Equality of Women's Opportunity and Human Rights Review also have one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (January 26, 2015) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of the Union's Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean Committee for Economic and Financial Affairs, Social Affairs and Education will be held on 26 January 2015 in Barcelona, Spain. In addition to members of the committee, the EIBPA is presented to the draft of the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, as part of the Committee meeting of other members of the EIBPA Turkish delegation for the Mediterranean. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under Article 4 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the adoption of the General Assembly on the establishment of a friendship group between the Council of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Advice 19/1/2015 on Monday, the following proposals were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The agenda's draft of Laws and Proposals and Other Actions From Commissions (ECTs) will be placed in the 7th order of the Law Charter 648, and the order of other tasks will be taken according to this. (9/8) The Commission for Parliamentary Investigation Number 681, which has been distributed on 14/1/2015, has to be taken to the side of the agenda, and the meeting of the General Assembly on Tuesday 20/1/2015, and continue the work of the General Assembly until the meeting is completed. On Wednesday's merger of the General Assembly, 21/1/2015, the lack of verbal questions, It's recommended. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to take it into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/248) I demand that my original Law Proposal be brought to the attention directly in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. As the bidder, I'll make a promise to Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0011par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we all know that every year, because of natural disasters, our farmers are facing very serious, very serious damage. At the end of this year, many of our farmers in the Plains of Menderes, especially because of extreme rains, were seriously and significantly damaged, such as Söke, Germencik, İncirliova, Koçarlı. This isn't just about Aydın. Look, because of the recent natural disasters such as rain, snow, or frost, farmers face serious and significant damage in the country, in Antalya, in Edirne, in Manisa, in Sakarya, and in many of our regions. Now, we have a law, Law 2090. This law says that if farmers are harmed by natural disasters, they will be helped by losing 40 percent of their assets, which will be compensated. This law, dear friends, is not enough to prevent farmers from being victimized. Therefore, we propose a change in Law 2090. What do we want to change? Look, for one thing, there's a fundamental problem. The farmer's entire crop was flooded because of the flood, due to the heavy rain. But the law says, even if he floods his entire estate, I look at the farmer's house, look at his tractor, look at the amount of his real estate. I'll calculate your total assets. If there is 40 percent of this, I will pay compensation. Dear friends, the farmer, who has already failed to pay for the cost of agriculture, faces never getting compensation if his crop is damaged in such a way. So we say that if 40 percent of its crop has been damaged, let them be compensated for the disaster, and let us take into account the damages caused by extreme rain. Over the years, the Turkish farmer has expressed his distress over disasters, looking forward to having state officials come in, calculate our losses, maybe it'll be an ointment for our wound. He's been waiting, but unfortunately there's no salve for the wound. Therefore, we have reduced this proposal according to Article 37. My fellow lawmakers, you are all responsible for our farmers who voted for you in the area where you are and sent you to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we are all responsible. So, let's discuss this law together and solve this problem that's been going on for years. Look, in a moment, we'll be here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to discuss the report of the parliamentary inquiry commission. Dear friends, we all know that we're taking a 60-dollar cell phone stealer to court to trial. A child who steals a 60-dollar cell phone is on trial in Turkey and cannot be tried for one reason or another for taking $60m in bribes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly faces a serious test today. Here we will answer the question: Will we or will we not recognize the privilege of committing a crime? If the alleged criminals are capable, are we or are we not going to turn them into allies by the House's decision? In today's vote, if we don't open the way to the Supreme Court, we will be registering that the capable are allowed to commit crimes in Turkey, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly will have registered the existence of an oligarch of crime by this decision. So, as the National Assembly, are we or are we not going to surrender to the oligarchy of crime, that's the vote we're going to take. Look, a political ethics law is on the agenda right now. If we shut down the High Court today, we'll lose our license to negotiate political ethics here. My compliments to all of you, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0012par0347	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. According to the charter, another member of parliament needs to speak. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün will speak on this matter. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0013par0351	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have received a pledge from Mr. Bulent Tezcan, our member of the Enlightenment, on the proposal of the law on the farmers. I salute you all. Dear friends, Mr. Bulent has already told us that farmers are very victims. But I'll tell you this: 27% of Turkey is a peasant. The AKP government has always persecuted and suffered this peasant for some reason. I'm going to tell you why, because right now there's a terrible migration from village to city. The peasant is a victim. The banks don't accept collateral, the banks don't give loans. As banks don't give loans, so is the man who's taking them, and the citizen who's buying them is miserable right now. You know why? I'm going to point out that we're putting it off without charge. They say, "Look, we're putting it off without charge." They say, "There's a high interest delay." Why are you delaying with this high interest, when you're against interest? You have no right to crush a peasant with interest. Please remove interest and postpone it without interest. Because of the 2014 hail, there were 65 percent damage to the disaster fields. Ardahan called me today. The state has to pay for 65 percent of the damage, it hasn't. Get a management insurance policy. They're calling it. Guys, they want $3.5 billion in agricultural insurance. The peasant can't afford it. Now, even in Anatolia, wherever in Turkey, you have destroyed the villager. I mean, you haven't had this in ten years, even in disaster. Is that even possible? Dear friends, look, the bait plants need to be paid right now. You know, there's snow and winter all over Turkey. Especially in Eastern Anatolia, they are very cold, they have very violent frosts, and therefore people cannot feed their animals. If they take his money, he'll take the bait, he'll buy the hay, he'll feed his pet. Right now, straw prices -- when I bring hay here, you get angry -- started coming out. Why? He can't get a citizen, and when he can't, his animal starves there. The price of hay has gone up. Now that the hay prices are up, people can't afford it. I beg you here, if the food plant money is paid quickly, people will take their cattle, their grass, their hay, and bring them to spring. Otherwise, our farmers are in a very difficult situation, my friends. You know we have beekeeping. I also spoke to the beekeeping president. The incentives for beekeeping and the money should be paid, but the county troops are not paid. For some reason, the Department of Agriculture didn't bring that law into Congress. When he does, we, the Republican People's Party, will support the beekeepers' law as soon as possible, dear friends. Dear friends, here, a congressman, earlier, you know, Mr. Babushcu has made a statement in a way that ignores the republic, but unfortunately, neither the Prime Minister nor the members of the group, no one has said anything to Mr. Babushcu, and no one has said anything to him, but they have entered into understanding, as he did not say. I'm just saying that if the father-in-law doesn't have control of intelligence, let him know that we don't give a damn about the republic, to those who deal with the republic. We go young men on watch, we don't blow the wind into the republic. I want you to know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In that sense, let no one speak against the republic, let us take care of the peasants who are the masters of the republic. Today they seek me out of Hanak, Damal, and Posof, and from Ardahan, and from Ardahan, and from Kars, and from Aydın, and from Izmir, and from all places. The farmer's miserable, the narcissist's miserable, the tomato maker's miserable, everyone's miserable. You've connected Turkey completely outside, completely connected to the outside. Can you imagine, my friends, meat coming from Argentina? Animalism has hit rock bottom. The AKP government has paid nearly $100 billion for agriculture in 12 years, close to $100 billion. Guys, if we give half of this money to our farmer, believe me, honestly, our farmer will make more money and we won't import anything from the outside. Everyone knows that the AKP government is the enemy of the peasant, but in this election, the village will teach the AKP, bring the Republican People's Party to power, and I give you all my regards. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Please, trust us. As we continue to talk, we count to 2 clerk members, the numbers are equal.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0014par0366	My teacher doesn't trust you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0015par0367	I'm not listening to you. The numbers were equal, but we came to a decision that we would vote according to the hand lift. We said, "Unfortunately, this came out." Mr. Halaçoglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0016par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. The people of Azerbaijan reacted against the growing demand of the Armenian land, and in response, the Soviet army entered Baku (Baku) in 19 January 1990, in order to protect the Armenians, with tanks. 143 of the men and women who stood against them were crushed under Soviet tanks. In Azerbaijan, this brutal massacre is called the Black January (,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. This massacre actually opened the way for Azerbaijan's independence. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we offer our condolences to the Turks of Azerbaijan, and to our martyrs we pray for mercy. In the name of our group, I pray that these things will never happen again, that Karabakh will be bound again to Azerbaijan, and that independent Azerbaijan will live forever. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0017par0378	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Congressmans, as per the verdict, we're moving on to the parliamentary investigation reports on the agenda. The Isparta MP Sadi Bilgiç and 76 MPs have attempted to provide the exit to Dubai, in exchange for some material menfaats, a person who has created a comparison to Iran in exchange for the golden exports, allegedly seeking to smuggle into the illegal drugs of Ghana, allegedly seeking to serve Yurda roads from Ghana, 1.5 tons of gold-related forensic and administrative investigations, allegedly undermining the six's proposals to ensure the release of the Dubai, and that the Commission of these actions has created an investigation into the Anti-Trafficking Code of Iran in exchange for its trades, and that it has underpined a proposal for a proposal for a proposal for a proposal for a proposal for a proposal and a proposal for a proposal for a proposal for a proposal for a proposal by the Commission and a proposal for the Commission for the Commission and a joint of the Commission on-the-strials and a proposals of the Commission for the Commission for the Commission and the Commission for the Commission for the Commission and the Commission for the Commission and a proposals of the Commission undertone of the Commission. Commission? Here.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0018par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0017par0386	Just a minute, Mr. Akif. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission's 681 ranked report was distributed to the members on 14 January 2015 and sent to the relevant ministers. Here you go, Mr. Chebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0019par0391	Mr. President, in accordance with the report of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the four former ministers and the motions of the Supreme Court, which lawmakers have submitted, we begin negotiations. However, Mr. President, I'd like to bring two things to your attention. First of all, you made a statement that sums up the agenda. I cross-referenced your statement with the motion signed by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, which is essential to the establishment of the parliamentary investigation commission. When you presented the allegations regarding the three former ministers, you claimed the benefit of one person. This individual is in the motions of Justice and Development Party MPs to open the parliamentary investigation commission; it's in writing, Riza Sarraf. I wonder why you didn't present that name to the General Assembly. Your presentation is incomplete, and it is contrary to the Civil Law. If the claim is that there's a benefit to the person -- or something -- by way of name -- then it's up to the president's office to make this claim clear to the General Assembly. It is clear that your presentation to the General Assembly is a result of the incomplete reflection of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report. Therefore, I would like you to repeat your presentation, make it clear to the General Assembly. The second thing I'm going to say is that we're going to hold talks today, we're going to read motions, we're going to express the opinion of six MPs, the former ministers, they're going to use their right to defend themselves if they want to, and we're going to vote. The vote, as you all know, will be carried out in secret according to the Civil Code. I'd like to read the article on the secret ballot of the Civil Code and present it to your knowledge. Article 148, title of the secret voting process, the article states that the MPs are given three circles in white, green and red. The round will be used as a vote, and it will be thrown into the box shown for it. The other two circles are also left in the designated place. The application has been left in the two round voting booths, after the chosen round was placed in the envelope and thrown into the box. In accordance with the secrecy of the vote and the safety of the vote, sir, I would like to request that this decree of the Civil Code be submitted once again by Mr. President to the information of the General Assembly and that the Council take the necessary precautions regarding the release of two unused roundes in the cabins. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0396	Thank you, Mr. Chebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0021par0397	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0398	I did my presentation as you pointed out. However, the motion on the subject does not specify the name. In accordance with this motion, I've come to the attention of a parliamentary investigation. I'm bringing this to your attention.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0399	Sir, the motion... am I reading it wrong? This Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report, look...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0400	Look, Mr. Chebi, on the cover of the motion. If you want, I'll read the same thing from here.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0023par0402	Is there any point in reading the same thing again?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0403	I read it like on the front cover of a printed motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0404	Now, what's in front of me now is number 681...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0405	I think it's on the inside cover.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0406	...as soon as the Commission Report is written in its pages 1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, it is very clear what it is. I've read the motion for the parliamentary investigation -- the motion no.9/8) -- for the signature of a sufficient or necessary number of Justice and Development Party MPs, starting with the signature of Mr. Süzyya Sadi Bilcic. The name of the alleged person mentioned in this context is clearly written, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0407	Now, Mr. Chebi, it's not here; if you look at the inside of this report, it's not here either. That's how we read it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0409	Sir, I've stated what page you're on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0410	Now, I've read this summary, Mr. Chebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0411	My last name is Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0412	Sir?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0022par0413	Let me tell you, my last name is Hamzabi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0414	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0024par0415	Mr. President, we're discussing the report. We're not discussing the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0416	Okay. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0024par0418	We're discussing the title of the report.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0020par0419	Dear Elitaş, please... Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0025par0422	Thank you. Mr. President, this is the eve of a very important, historical and conscientious vote and discussion. On 5 May 2014, a parliamentary inquiry by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 453 votes. I hope, on that day, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will act in the same way, in accordance with the votes that voted for this motion to investigate. We've decided on a meeting today, but I'd like to make a point. First of all, the mother of former Minister of Economy, Mr. Zafer Çalayan, who is to be voted on today's parliamentary inquiry, has passed away, and I ask for God's mercy. As the National Movement Party, we have informed the Justice and Development Party of our opinion that this vote should not be held today, but they have expressed no objection. So on a day like this, we have come together to hold this vote. Other than that, this vote is very important. We have an application for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu. In view of this application, we had an appeal to make this vote in secret, especially to call only those who would vote in the cabins, to abandon these stamps after the vote, and to be thrown where they should be left according to the Civil Charter, and then to be counted. Our Parliamentary presidency has stated that you have been informed that your witness will conduct the hearing and that our application is on the subject. Therefore, I strongly urge you to take measures related to them during the talks and not be allowed to pile up and have a different opinion on the will of lawmakers. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0026par0427	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Yes, the vote with the secret vote. When it gets to that stage, as you pointed out, we will make necessary objections and warnings, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that the vote is carried out in a healthy manner. Thank you. Talks on the report will be promised to the Commission, to six MPs on behalf of its individuals, and to former ministers who have been asked to be investigated. The time of speech is 20 minutes for the Commission, ten minutes for lawmakers on behalf of their people. The last word belongs to the former ministers who have been asked to investigate him, and his time is limitless. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on the report...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0027par0436	Mr. President, isn't there a Commissioner? I don't know about that. So the fact that the President of such an important Commission isn't here makes sense, he doesn't trust the report.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0026par0438	On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Yilmaz Bronze speaking as Deputy Commissioner of the Commission. On behalf of its members, Konya MP Mustafa Akış, Muğla MP Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan, Konya MP Mr. Faruk Bal, Batman MP Mr. Bengi Yıldız, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, Denizli MP Bilal Uçar will speak. Now, the first statement, on behalf of the Commission, belongs to Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç, the deputy commissioner of Bartin. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] (9/8) Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the Commission for Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report 681 rows. I salute the General Assembly. [[İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkes has removed the banner "I would punish my daughter Fatima, who has committed theft."]] Our Parliamentary Investigative Commission, established by the adoption of a motion by 77 EC PARI MPs, has completed its work on the basis of the 100th, Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Articles 107, and 1113, and has submitted its report to the Parliamentary Presidency. Dear lawmakers, some issues regarding the work of the Commission have been mispronounced during the time of the Commission's work, and I'd like to make a few statements on these issues. One of them is the issue of a series of compasses; it's been discussed a lot in public. It was actually a legal issue. We have files from the local courts, prosecutors, judges, lawmakers who know very well that the file was returned before it was sent to a string compass, because they need to know what was going on in that file by the authorities. Why is that important? The lack of a document in it is important for an investigation. So there was an unnecessary discussion. In the case of the transfer to the Supreme Court, it will be sent to the Constitutional Court through a series of ballots -- which the Parliament will do again -- says our Parliamentary Institution. 112 last joke is clear. Again, we've seen a number of behaviors aimed at violating the secrecy of the investigation. Civil Charter Article 110 is a secret study of the Commission. Only commissioners can attend, and other MPs can't participate in commission work. The Constitutional Article 100 says that there can be no discussion of Parliamentary investigations in Article 113 of the Civil Code. But, unfortunately, in opposition parliamentary groups, the issue of parliamentary investigation has been constantly raised, and statements have been used. Of course, at this point, privacy regarding the Commission's work has been violated, misinformation has also been passed to the public, reports have been made differently, even our own conversations, our own transcripts of our talks at the Parliamentary Investigation Commission have been transferred to the Internet, and even here, we have witnessed that the sentence we're talking about has been placed under a different paragraph. Coroner's report just came in. The Coroner's Report was tried to be presented to the public that the report on the montage was reported. However, the Coroner's Report was related to whether or not the sentences between the CDs fit, or there was no forensic report on whether the audio recording in that CD was edited. Some of the reviews were conducted by TÜBITAK, and there are reports of the montage of that wiretap, but there is nothing here that concerns our Commission. Dear lawmakers, we have described documents regarding the incidents mentioned in the investigation motion carried out by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office as reports. I mean, it's always come up here as a trial. It's not a statement, it's our Constitution, it's the Civil Code. What we're doing here is a judicial action on the trial of ministers in the Constitution of 100. The issue of parliamentary investigation is not to confuse it with a statement concerning the removal of parliamentary immunity. We have accepted the documents of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office as a report, and we have conducted the investigation of evidence ourselves as a commission. We also found a large number of violations of the law that would not be present in a normal investigation into the investigation launched by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in 2012. Most of these findings are also in the decision of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office for non-disclosure. As we look at the beginning of the Istanbul investigation, it is based on the MASAK Report, dated January 31, 2008. Teacher, if you listen, you'll know about it. There is no concrete data on the money laundering charge in this report. Mr. Speaker, one moment. Mr. Ozkes, you opened a banner, the press saw it, took a picture. Look, we're talking about something very serious, and I'd like you to be sensitive. Please remove that banner, please... Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. (9/8) When we look at the beginning of the investigation in Istanbul, the MASAK Report on January 31, 2008 said it was based on the investigation. We're looking at this MASAK report, and the MASAK report says there's no concrete data on money laundering. I mean, we're talking about a report based on a four-year-old investigation. Again, the 2012 MASAK Report concluded that there was no concrete data on the money laundering charge, but both reports are based on the investigation. The investigation begins with these two reports and three reports: anonymous calls from 2009, 2010 and the latest on July 18, 2012. However, from July 18th to September 13th, the prosecution has made no effort to determine direct communication. So, it begins with the inspection of direct communication by violation of the penal code, in which there is no other possibility to obtain evidence in the case of what we call a strong cause of doubt, according to article 135, according to our penal code. This is the beginning of a violation of Article 135 of the Penal Code. Despite the mention of drug trafficking and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in one report, prosecutors in charge of Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law are not informed of the situation. The important thing about reports is that every detail is reported until the phone numbers they use on suspects. This states that information obtained by law enforcement without listening to intelligence and evidence obtained in illegal ways were used in a criminal investigation through anonymous tips, while our legislation clearly prohibits the use of intelligence listening as evidence. As the investigation continues, there is another anonymous tip dated August 1, 2013. Rather than the content of this report, the remarkable thing is that 12 separate reports have been made from the IP address where the report was reported, so the prosecution does not even bother to look for an IP address that has been sent to a large number of IP addresses here. Istanbul 5. The Court of Peace has a decision to determine its communication dated September 17, 2012. In the following wiretaps and surveillance decisions, referred to this decision, violations of the law continue to follow one another. There's a technical follow-up order dated October 3, 2012. One of the suspects will arrive from abroad with two suitcases, including gold, meeting two people at the airport, here, gold smuggling. There's a technical follow-up on a tip. And in this technical pursuit, it turns out that this tip is false, and the person who got off the plane has no luggage, so he meets with his wife and leaves without seeing anyone else. While this tip has been false, this technical surveillance has been approved by the court and has been ordered to pursue it for four more weeks. On November 13, 2012, there was a wiretap. Even though it's legally illegal, the talks between the spouses are being monitored, and they're being filed before they're destroyed. The two-year period of testimony is also noted as the non-registered talks, which have the right to refrain from testifying, as well as the decision to listen to people who have been interviewed in non-responsive talks, followed by violations of the law. Only 32 people are suspected of listening to him, but more than 100 people are being bugged, and over 300 phone calls have been decided to be bugged. Again, July 9, 2013 İstanbul 34. The Court of Peace has a decision to oversee communication. The verdict is July 9th, but the decision to wiretap is valid as of July 4th. That way, without a court order, the wiretaps are put in the file as evidence. Again, the 26th of May 10, 2013. The Criminal Court of Peace has a verdict. This decision is also made on May 10th, although it expires on June 10th -- there is a month extension in crime within the scope of the organization -- a month extension is being completed on June 10th, but a technical follow-up is being carried out until June 14th. So in this way, there are wiretaps, surveillance decisions that go beyond time, past history. Istanbul 38, April 19, 2013. The Criminal Court of Peace decides to examine the e-mail address by entering a code. This is something that is not in any universal law in our law. Confiscation is done according to CMK 129, but here the e-mail code is hacked into those e-mails by the police. So normally, in fact, the mail is opened by the judge, where the police are doing the necessary examination by breaking the code, and here they are violating the provisions of Articles 20 and 22 of the Constitution. Of course, in addition to all these violations of the law, there are many such violations in the case of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's decision not to be followed. We can see them in detail in the non-obsession decision. Article 38 of the Constitution shall not be used as evidence, which is clearly, contrary to the law, according to the Constitution. Again, the 217th article of the Penal Code says that guilt can't be proven with clear, illegal evidence, and illegal evidence. Again, the Penal Code has 206 and 289. The latest Supreme Court ruling on the failure to prove guilt with illegal evidence, and the Constitutional Court's decision in 2012, which has been made close by the Supreme Court, has also shown that there is no way to issue a conviction with illegal evidence. I told you our commission agreed to the investigation papers delivered to him as a tip-off. The Commission has conducted the proper investigation of evidence itself, and has investigated the material truth about the issues referred to in the inquiry motion for the ministers, and has concluded: Now, I would like to share with you the grounds for our decision not to refer them to the High Court on these charges, as well as the crimes charged to the Ministers one by one. First: there were two allegations in the motion to investigate former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan. First, the claim that Iran has granted the privilege of exporting gold. It has been determined by the report of the People's Bank on the transfer of gold to Iran, and the People's Bank report on allegations that the legal commissions in banking transactions have been reduced again. However, on the same grounds as all of these allegations, İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has decided not to be followed, and this decision of non-obstruction has been made by İstanbul 6. The decision of the Criminal Judgeship of Peace has been made. When the expert reports, the People's Bank Review Board Report and the prosecution's final ruling of non-objection were jointly assessed, there was no evidence available to the Supreme Court regarding the claim that Mr. Cavalan had granted a concession to Iran in gold exports. The second claim against Mr. Calayan is that Ghana was trying to ensure that the gold was released to Dubai, blocking legal and administrative investigations related to 1.5 tons of gold alleged to be smuggled into the dorm. Last week, the same motion for investigation of our former Minister of Customs was issued again. Following a report of a 1.5 tonnes of gold-laden aircraft from Ghana to Dubai, which went to Istanbul to refuel, the People's Public Prosecutor's Office is launching an investigation in 2012. The official document says there is no room for prosecution in an investigation into fraud, trafficking and bribery. The İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is also investigating the same action, which, of course, has been decided that there is no room for retrial under Article 270. As such, no evidence has been obtained by our Commission regarding the fact that Zafer Çağlayan was obstructing judicial and administrative investigations on the golden plane from Ghana, which was refueling in Istanbul and headed to Dubai, and that the gold was trying to get out of Dubai. In this case, the prosecution's expert report on the investigation has been made clear, which is how we decided that the charges were not carried out in the investigation motion, that there was no evidence of the transfer to the Supreme Court. Former Interior Minister Mardin MP Muammar Güler has three allegations. It's the claim that the person mentioned in the motion to investigate gave the vehicle the privilege of using the police lane in traffic and assigned the protection police to the person mentioned. The claim that some suspects and relatives who were taken into custody along with this individual have made an attempt to prevent media reports about the irregularities of this individual, which he ordered to be passed against Turkish citizenship in an illegal way, to be investigated for whether or not there was any criminal or intelligence work done on this person. In connection with all these verbs, investigations have been made against Muammar Güler, the son of Muammar Güler's son, İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and the investigation has concluded that evidence has been collected against the law, that there is no place for prosecution on charges of establishing, taking bribes and giving. İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has ruled that there is no room for prosecution. The decision of the Criminal Judgeship of Peace has been made. The alleged actions were not accepted directly among the Ministry of Interior's duties, but were not proven in the official document described in Article 204 of the Turkish Penal Code, the trade of influence in Article 255, the bribery in Article 252, and the violation of confidentiality in Article 285, as stated above, the evidence obtained in accordance with the law would not be established, as its elements would not be established. For these reasons, it has been decided not to be transferred to the Supreme Court, since former Interior Minister Muammar Guler has not been able to produce sufficient doubt that the alleged verbs were committed. The former Minister of the European Union, İstanbul MP Egemen Dona, also has three allegations. The person mentioned has claimed to be intermediary with an attempt to rent a tourist-certified hotel and obtain visas for his relatives, but we've all looked into it together with our friends from the opposition, no attempts to rent a hotel or apply for a visa. He claims that he has provided research in institutions and organizations that are concerned about whether or not there is an investigation into this person, but there is no evidence of that. He claims that he has made attempts to prevent media coverage of this individual's activity, and there is no record or evidence of that. There is no concrete evidence that the alleged verbs have been obtained, and since none of these verbs are related to the European Union Ministry's field of duty, there is no crime in which they can or cannot be mentioned as having done a job or not to do so, it has already been decided that there is no room for prosecution by the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with these allegations. For these reasons, the former Minister of the European Union has been decided not to be transferred to the Supreme Court, since there is not enough doubt that İstanbul MP Egemen Bagis has committed the alleged verbs. Mr. Erdoğan Bayraktar, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism, has two allegations: The first claim is to ratify private concession zoning plans. Second, to condone irregularities of some projects against zoning plans and to ensure that they pass through the audits irresponsibly. The cases mentioned in the case of Mr. Bayraktar, known as the December 25th operation, have been investigated and ruled untraceable on the grounds that there was no evidence of criminal activity as a result of the investigation. The verdict issued by İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has also been confirmed that there is no room for prosecution dated April 30, 2014. As a result of the investigation carried out by our commission, there was no evidence that written verbs had been carried out in the motion for investigation, it was decided that former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar would not be transferred to the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, our Commission has ruled within the framework of the law. When the members of the Commission made their decisions, they were based on documents, expert reports, a firm decision by prosecutors to not follow. No one expects the Commission to make a decision based on illegal evidence. In accordance with Article 135, the Penal Code requires that the ministers' talks between the spouses, talks between the spouses who should be destroyed at the moment, listening decisions in the past, further wiretaps from the same IP number over and over and over again, extension decisions, despite unsubs' unsubstantiated reports, cannot tell us that the investigations, which should be conducted by the CMK, should be carried out on the same day, should be carried out in the same way as the investigations, searching and seizures, which need to be carried out in order of public through the usual live broadcasts and seizure; that no one can tell us that they are expected to open the court for months, even though all suspects have been determined. If such illegal evidence comes together in an investigation, if the Constitution violates the universal rules of criminal law, there is not a judicial activity, there is a political initiative. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] (9/8) The law is used. A coup attempt is being used by law. With these feelings and thoughts, I present the Commission's report to your appreciation, and I salute the General Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0028par0488	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0026par0489	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0028par0490	Sir, as a commissioner of opposition parties, the speaker, Deputy Commissioner of the Commission, has made an open assault on our side in two places.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0026par0491	What did he say?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0028par0492	The first issue, as he first began his remarks, was that although the opposition party's MPs were unable to make a group decision on anything, they held these meetings among themselves, including their chief of staff at group meetings, which they violated. Secondly, he said: "Even though we have expressed our findings regarding the Egemen Donan of the Ministers in our opposition, he himself has found no evidence concerning the Lord Donance, and the members of the Commission of the opposition party have not been able to find this evidence. " And that's an open taunt. Because even though these findings were in our report, he said there was a contradiction between our reports and our procedures in the Commission. At this point, I'd like to give an answer to both teasing and contradiction.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0029par0495	Now, it's not a tease, it's an explanation, but I promise you for two minutes, based on the importance of the matter. But on behalf of the Commission, I promise you, I won't make any promises to any of your fellow commissioners. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0028par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the speaker has just made a statement in a manner that would legalise all of the opposition party's MPs in the Commission. I can only answer the part on my behalf, and I believe the others have the right to answer. Of course, it is important to say that we have put together a serious Commission study that is keeping Turkey's agenda busy, but it has not escaped our attention that our Commissioner is not here today either. Why isn't our commissioner here, and he needs to be explained. Now, sir, we have not entered into any study that violates the open laws of the Civil Code or of the Constitution. We didn't work at this point with any instructions from our own president or from the executive staff of our political party. As lawmakers of the opposition party in this commission, we have made a decision on the requirements of law and our own conscience, and we have exposed it to opposition. But I do feel clear to say, and I also need to understand that when we should have decided on December 22nd, I think it's more important to explain what happened at the point of the Commission's delay to January 5th, what meetings were held, what studies were made. The Deputy President of the Commission said: "Of course, there was no evidence found concerning the Egemen Bagis, and the members of the Commission are witnesses to this." No, we have uncovered our findings regarding the four ministers who had sufficient doubt in the 170th article of the CMK, and we have put our evidence on our evidence, and we have written this on the opposition. About the four ministers, we're not a court body, we're just looking for the criteria for the indictment when we're making the trial, or we haven't already done an examination that the court will call, and we've written in our report that there's sufficient doubt about the four ministers, including the Egemen Donated. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0030par0506	Thank you, Mr. Bridge.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0031par0507	Mr. President, the Vice President of the Commission has just made a statement saying: "Our commission appreciates the evidence.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0030par0508	Sir?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0031par0509	Our commission appreciated the evidence. He used an expression.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0030par0510	Yeah...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0031par0511	As you can appreciate, you're a lawyer of the years, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission is a political body, not a judicial body. A political body has no authority to appreciate evidence.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0030par0512	What have you been promised, Mr. Tanal, an explanation, a taunt, for what?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0031par0513	In order to get it into the records, he gave me the wrong information, in terms of the right information, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0030par0515	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Now, I'm going to call the MPs who will speak on behalf of their people to the stand in order. First of all, Mr. Mustafa Akış, the MP of the Conium, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Flush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0032par0524	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish that the decision of our General Assembly, which will discuss such an important agenda during such a time period of the most important and historic processes of Turkey, will be noted in history, will bring blessings to our country and our nation. As you all know, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission is 120653 to 2012 to İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and 125043 to 2012. He investigated the allegations against the 4 Minister, including at the centre of the investigation files, according to regulations in the Constitution and the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Council of Ministers, and ultimately decided not to send them to the Supreme Court. In order to make the right decision on the matter ahead of us, first of all, İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office No. 120653 to 2012. The method of collecting evidence that was followed during the December 17th investigation requires a lens. The phone calls received during a 2007 drug operation are mentioned in action as a number of doubts and an anonymous tip letter received in 2008, and are referred to as the basis of the investigation. Sadly, however, no legal action has been carried out for four years, until 2012, when the events developed in 2008. At the beginning of the investigation, anonymous e-mails and fax reports revealed every detail of the suspects to their phone numbers. The IP address, dated August 1, 2013, has been reported 12 times before. Abstract reports, regardless of who the anonymous tip was made by, have been considered to be the correct evidence. On the other hand, anonymous tips have been partially used and partially ignored. Although anonymous reports suggest that there are drug lords and PKK at the end of the issue of gold exports, the issue has been divided in a arbitrary way among isolated claims that have not been taken into account. Another remarkable thing is that the law enforcement should have notified the prosecutor to begin the investigation, but would not have done so after an undetectable period of time to report it to the Attorney General. As a matter of fact, from the anonymous tip dated July 18, 2012 to September 13, 2012, it is unclear why the investigation was expected and what was done in the meantime. Another distortion in the file, according to the CMK, is the introduction of the latest tool protection measures to detect and follow inexhaustible and continuous extensions of uninterrupted communication. Also, more interestingly, Istanbul 34 in the investigation case. The decision dated July 9, 2013 was issued by the Criminal Court of Peace to determine communication from five days ago on July 4, 2013. Any conversation, including communications with people who are not allowed to be recorded because they have the right to refuse to testify within two years of time, was recorded, followed by a decision to listen to them on the grounds that they were suspected. Only 32 have been referred to as suspects, but more than 100 have been decided to listen for more than 300 digits. In a criminal trial, in order to achieve material truth, unlawful, unlimited methods cannot be followed. The concept of illegal evidence includes not only the first evidence obtained against the law, but other evidence obtained through this evidence. The illegal method in gathering evidence is the 2012/125043 of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. It was repeated in the LU investigation, which is the same as in the December 25th investigation. Again, anonymous abstract reports have also taken place in the investigation, which calls for the determination to identify illegal communication based on these reports. In addition, decisions have been made that there is no room to prosecute the two investigations of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and these decisions have been finalised. The same issues that our Investigative Commission has discussed in terms of these decisions in terms of material law are the same issues when it is considered that there is no room for a decision to be fired. In that case, the decision must be made based on the legal impact of these final decisions. Perhaps these decisions may not be called binding in a manner of speaking, but the definitions of material law in the context of decisions are binding and should be carefully examined. Dear lawmakers are December 17th and December 25th, with the agenda of the Investigation Commission and today's General Assembly, followed by public interest. So, what's December 17-25? December 17-25, is it an innocent corruption investigation and a transparency effort, as claimed by its propaganda, or is it designing politics, creating perception, a psychological movement, and a coup attempt at national will and its elected government? The result of 12 years of courage in Turkey is no longer operational on 27 May, 12 March, 12 September and 28 February. On December 17th-25, just like the District of April 27th, the closing case, the presidential election, the February 7th, the attempt at coup d'états, the same way as the trip regression, and the result of the failure of the nation to own its own will is a coup attempt. [[İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkes has removed the banner "I would punish my daughter Fatima, who has committed theft."]] The parallel organization is the architect of December 17th and 25th, no one, even the opposition, no doubt. To deny the background of the operation, which took place December 17th-25th, you either have to be politically blind or personally implementing this operation. We're not dealing with an innocent police operation. For another war, there's a building that collects ammunition for days, months, years, for a battle as subcontractors. December 17th-25 corruption claims mean nothing more than a silencer's duty to the weapon used against politics. Honorable MPs, spokesman for custody in Turkey, and his mind never changes. Just as May 27 was caught on the perception of debaclement and corruption and running away. If it was activated through its perception, the 17-25 December was also tried to discredit and escape, to be managed by its sense of escape. There's no way we can look at December 17-25 in the same way that those who have turned into the parallel organization's lead soldiers insist on locking them in the judicial corridors and allowing us to look at the matter only from this position. On December 17th and 25th, legal politics was shot from the shoulder of the judiciary. December 17-25 is not an effort to get legal results, but an effort to get political results. December 17-25, February 7th, and from there, it can never be considered independent from the attempt to march towards our President. December 17 - 25th, Turkey is no different from the stopping of MIT trucks that carry Turkey's sovereignty over the country, not only help to introduce it as a country that supports terrorism. December 17-25 is not separate from the reception and service of a private meeting at the State Department. December 17th-25th is no different than putting bugs in the Prime Minister's office. December 17th-25 is not separate from the assembly audio recordings released immediately via social media. December 17th-25, we are the owners of this state. It is not separate from the fact that a prosecutor's drafter has been forced to press security and to impose unlawful ban on law enforcement. (ARK PARTY) December 17-25 is not separate from the prosecutor's marginalization, bias and hatred of the prosecutor to distribute a press release in front of the courthouse. December 17-25 is not separate from the public declaration of the HSYK that aims at politics. December 17-25 is not a separate investigation from thousands of wiretaps. So we have to evaluate December 17 to 25 with these processes. With these processes, to separate between 17 and 25 from these events would mean to protect and legitimize all these interventions against politics and national will. However, the work of the Commission of Investigation has been committed by serving sheets and sheets to the media. Once again, media conference logs have been tweezed to create a perception and the Commission is under pressure. This perception effort, as I just explained, is no different from what was intended to be done on December 17th or 25th. Then there's no difference between political engineering and political engineering, which leaked the Commission protocols. In both of these time periods, it's an effort to convict in the interest of public opinion. Mr. President, good lawmakers, if the policy maker's decisions are far from life, away from the country's agenda, these decisions cannot become meaningful decisions on the ground of society. What I've just told you is a clear reality. It is not possible to decide these realities by closing our eyes. It is not right for us to justify and imply the actions of those who target the will of the nation and many other violations of the law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0033par0540	Thank you. The second speaker is İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0034par0545	Mr. President, honored members of the High Council, I salute you as you begin my words. Dear friends, yes, that day has finally come. The people's last word, as you say, is that the nation's representatives will make a decision today. This report on suspicious ministers will be voted today with these four ministers who have occupied our country's agenda for nearly a year. I don't know how long you've read this report, but I've read it, I've taken my notes, I've tried to find out why your friends from the ruling party should not be referred to the Supreme Court. In fact, when I looked at the statements, I was hopeful that you, some of the members of the Commission, had the intention and zeal to come to the truth when the Commission was working, but unfortunately it didn't. Two of your friends have spoken. In his speech, two of your friends basically referred to the Istanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's decision of non-obsession, which started with wiretaps as the prosecution began this investigation. The wiretaps were the last resort, but they went from the top when they were supposed to go there. Therefore, we did not accept evidence of wiretaps. The second argument was that the talks between the ministers and their children were the talks of those who, according to CMC 135, had the right to refrain from testifying, which could not be evidence. Your last speaker used another argument. Now, this parallel structure, as always, is a coup d'état, I draw your attention, especially to your consciences: be careful, no one denies the case, friends, so no one denies the time. And the Minister doesn't deny it. I got this watch. How did you pay Reza? With this document from a hotel -- this is in the commission report, here, in this one -- I paid with this one. Sir, I have received the watch's fee from the 240 thousand euros Zafer Çağlaş, the famous businessman Reza Sarraf. Guys, look, our friends at least wanted this document examined. When was this article written? Writing age, graphology. Two, whose handwriting is this? It's been requested. It wasn't even done. Is this taken or is there a case? Yes, he does. If you'll excuse me, in the words of american, slang, if you'll excuse me. The commission ate it, but I don't know if you're gonna eat it. Again, is there a transfer of $2,45,000 from Bank Asia to the minister's brother -- you know, the parallel structure -- that they wanted to take you down? I do. Does anyone deny it? No. Does your minister agree? Yeah. Where did this come from, my friend, and what is the source of these 2 million and 465 thousand liras? Sir, here, we cashed the jewelry at the wedding, so it went to my brother's account, and then it went to my account. Is it fixed? Steady. Look, that's what I mean. I mean, the evidence isn't just phone calls, they're friends. Where did you cash it? Sir, Simay Gold, document 31/10/2012. Did he hang out at the wedding of Kaan Calashan? If you want to know about it, your son's wedding is 12/04/2013, friends. Sir, 2 million 465 thousand liras. So, what does this document say? 24 karat 25 kilograms of gold. Guys, for God's sake, is jewelry 24 karats? 24-karat gold is pure gold, bullion. Who are you kidding? Are you guys making fun of people? (HPP) So, as Ziya Pasha said, do you think that everyone is blind and stupid in the world? Are you making fun of the nation's intelligence, Commissioner? Sir, the coup d'état... friends, is this the beginning of 2007? Who was Chief Constable Edirne, during the wiretaps and technical surveillance of Edirne Security Directorate's Bureau of Trafficking and Organized Crimes Department with investigation file 2007/1258 of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in 2007? Hanefi Hunter. Hanefi Hunter, the parallelist, wanted to take you down? Isn't Hanefi Hunter locked up for writing a book? Guys, the 2008 MASAK report... who does the MASAK depend on? Isn't Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek connected? Mehmet Simsek, your minister, did he want to coup his government or parallelist? Because he says that these unsourced funds must be investigated, police should be found in technical pursuit. In 2010, friends of Azerbaijan took over 14.5m euros in suitcases and backpacks of four Iranian citizens on a plane to Russia, heading from Istanbul to Moscow, starting an investigation into Russian authorities and issues. Russian authorities are warning our police through INTERPOL, warning the police. Russian police are parallelists, Putin parallelists, they want to take you down? Guys, we're coming to 2011, 6/6/2011, six days before the election. Then there's a possible independent Home Secretary, Home Secretary of the Election Government. Who? Osman Sun. I don't know if he's Deputy Secretary or Undersecretary again right now.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0035par0552	Undersecretary.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0034par0553	Undersecretary. Are the parallelists or are they trying to take you down, Osman Sun? In his day, the Police General Directorate has a report dated 6/6/2011, not İstanbul Security Directorate. Sir, it says here that this matter must be investigated. So, all of this is being collected; the MASAK report, the calls to İstanbul Security Directorate, the report of the Security Directorate, the reports from the Russian authorities, all of these are being collected, reported by police to the Istanbul Chief Prosecutor's Office of Financial Crimes. On that occasion, İstanbul 5. The Criminal Court of Peace, see, has been assigned to the prosecutor's office at 13/9, 17/9/9/, where your friends are misleading you -- the decision to follow and listen technically. I mean, there's enough evidence for technical surveillance and wiretaps, enough signs, so the court decides. Two: The commission cannot discuss the verdict of the court, my friends. This Commission is conducting a preliminary investigation, and this Commission is not a court. When you look at the commission report, if you read it, it says: "Because there are no elements of the crime..." "Dear friends, there are no elements of the crime." Dear friends, in the past, there is a case of the Ismail Özdağs during the Ozal period. A bribe of Ismail Özdağ is being brought to Ozal, God rest his soul, God rest his soul. Ozal has appointed Adnan Coffeemaker, and God have mercy on him for this matter. And Adnan the Coffeeman taketh the voice, and bringeth it unto Ozal. You know what Ozal says about being his political heir, you know what he says? The tape came to me, and I listened. I thought about it for a week. Four people knew about the incident: Uður Mengenecioğlu -- Ismail Özdağlar, Adnan Caffeci and I. I've thought a lot about whether or not to bring up the incident, and the logic of law and honor has finally triumphed. Whatever comes to me and my party, I'm going to find out. Are you the political heir to Ozal? That is the attitude of Ozal, and that is what we expect of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, time isn't enough, it's too much to tell. Finally, I want to finish with a word from the Prophet. They ask: "O Prophet, who will repent on the Day of Judgment?" He says: "It is those who sacrifice their life for their world, and they will regret it. Are there any more people who will regret it? Yes, there is. There will be those who will sacrifice their afterlife for the world of others. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I ask you, have fear of God. If you believe in the Day of Judgment, if you believe in the Day of Reckoning, I say, "Do not sacrifice your life to the world of others. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0036par0563	Thank you, Mr. Original. Our third speaker, Mr. Faruk Bal, is the MP of the Conium. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0037par0567	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we're going to discuss a historical issue where we can answer the questions of conscience accounting or conscience handcuffs. Ex-Ministers Zafer Çalayan, Muammar Güler, Egemen Donor and Erdogan Bayraktar have appeared on December 17th-25th, and in the history of the Republic...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0038par0568	Mr. President, if you'll step in, there's a hum.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0036par0569	Mr. Honey, just a minute. Congressmans, I'd like to hear from the speaker, the MPs, they'd like to hear from you. Please respond to this request with precision! Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0039par0571	Mr. President, I'd like my time back, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0036par0572	I'll add it to your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0039par0574	Yes, we're going to discuss the Commission's report on a major corruption operation, which is unprecedented in the history of the republic, about a child from Iran taking over four ministers. We just listened carefully to the Deputy Commissioner on behalf of the Commission. I'd like to share with you how this commission began and how it worked, and then I'd like to share with you my thoughts on the report. My dear friends, on May 5th, the Commission was established on the AKP's motion. It is because of the crimes of these four ministers, corruption, bribery, money laundering, which have been wasted on the mind. For sixty-four days, the AKP did not run this Commission, nor did its members. By the time we arrived on July 9th, there would have been a draw from members of the AKP who had signed up for the Commission, but two days ago, in these lobbys, the President of this Commission, Hakkk Village, spoke to the press, and I heard it, and everyone heard it. Indeed, Mr. President was surprised to draw the lottery, and the first name came up, and he also hesitated to say, "Is this what I'm going to do?" They asked the peasant: "You have been chosen." He said, "I knew about three or five." So it started with the suspense. The suspense continued. Fifty-four days... the files were sent to the Istanbul Prosecutor's Office. Why? He's about to get a knee compass. My dear friends, this commission has all the authority of the Council of Ministers. He finds the professor of the series compass, he gets a series compass, but that's not the point. Prosecutors, who have found the evidence, have been suspended, police have committed to its place, have been brought to order by prosecutors to redesign these files. Yeah, according to the press, 33 files went for a series compass, 11 folders came in. What was in the remaining files, and why did he stay in Istanbul? That's second suspicion. My dear friends, the doubts continue. This Commission called a preliminary meeting. At these meetings, the President of the Commission has served as a free lawyer to suspicious ministers. At these meetings, I will give him a statement. He did not invite or listen to the plaintiffs. And there came to them witnesses who would not harm him, and their testimony was taken, and the signs were gathered together. The evidence has not been collected because it says there is no evidence, according to the statement of our friend who just explained the report. I'm now showing you a list of bribes taken on page 635 of the list given by a 701-page member of the National Movement Party. There is no evidence. It is called. And the minister didn't show up on TV footage of seven safe deposit boxes in his kid's bedroom? Didn't you see it? Isn't that evidence? Mr. Prime Minister of that time, son, when you say, "No money, what do you have?" I've got nothing, you've got money, it's in the vaults. Isn't that what he's saying? Bribe time is evidence, isn't it? Isn't bribery the piano evidence? I did what the Prime Minister ordered Erdogan Bayraktar. Isn't it proof that he should resign first? Isn't it evidence of money, euros, dollars, carrying suitcases, backpacks, taxi trunks? Isn't it evidence that the ministers had conversations with their children? They call them "no proof." Yes, these are evidence, evidence for those with conscience. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Yes, this is a matter of transfer to the Supreme Court, an evidence for people of faith who want to move. My dear friends, the commissioner's second job. You're not supposed to know anything in confidence, but there's been a gag order against the commissioners without informing them. People won't see or hear anything. And neither will the people see, nor will the people of Dhu al-Qarnael (Dhul-Qarnael) be able to see up there. Indeed, He is the All-Seer, the All-Knower. My dear friends, the work of this Commission has been so timed that the police who have obtained the evidence have been given gymnastics and driven all over Turkey. Prosecutors who obtained the evidence were given gymnastics and banished to all parts of Turkey; files were taken from them; instead, they will pledge; instead, people were brought to carry out their instructions. They tried to put the spear in the sack. They destroyed the evidence with the law, the crimes, the criminal act, the law, the bag, the laws, the Internet laws. Even though it's no longer a crime, won't it remain a crime on the conscience of the nation? Of course, in the public conscience, these are crimes and will remain a crime. My dear friends, when we put all this together, millions of dollars, millions of euros, out of shoeboxes, out of backpacks, out of taxi trunks, out of taxi trunks, out of luggage, and out of television screens, all the talk we've all seen, the events we've all seen. What he reveals is that when we evaluate it in three separate areas, it is forbidden, it is sinful; it is morally immoral, and it is a crime by law. There's a way to get rid of all three of them. And thou shalt do thy righteousness, and thou shalt repent, and thou shalt ask forgiveness, and thou shalt declare thy repentance unto the Dhulcelal, that thou shalt not do it again. There's a moral high ground you have to do. Since you've been entrusted with a seal, you're going to hand over this seal in a row, so you're going to resign. Legally, there's a cure. By law, the solution is to go and be judged in an independent and impartial judicial body. This is a place to be judged by the ministers, Supreme Court. Your government has appointed 12 of the 17 members of this. You won't trust the members of your appointed Supreme Court, but who will this nation trust in the convictions of thousands and hundreds of thousands of cases? Trust who? Hence, such distrust should not or will not be a reason not to go to the Supreme Court. My dear friends, in this frame, I would like to address your conscience. Surely God has created men different from other creatures, so that they may distinguish the right from wrong. That is why God commands you to judge with justice in the words of the 58th verse of the House of Nisa, the Dhulcelal. How excellent is the admonition that Allah gives you. Indeed Allah is all-hearing, all-seeing. Again, the 8th verse of the House of Maiden: O ye who believe! And stand firm in the truth for Allah's sake. Be among those who bear witness to justice. And let not your hatred for any people compel you to be unjust. Be fair. That is nearer to piety. And fear Allah; indeed Allah is Acquainted with what you do. Again, in verse 135 of the Nisa Surah: O ye who believe! Do not deviate from justice, even if it is against yourselves or your parents or relatives. Be among those who bear witness to God. So if you follow your own desires, or turn away from them, God is Well Aware of what you do. My dear friends, the last: the mute devil who thirsts in the face of injustice. I hope that the handcuffs on the conscience of nine members of the Justice and Development Party's Commission will be solved here, and that our fellow lawmakers from the AKP Group will listen to their consciences. I want to believe they're gonna leave a nice little sound in this lovely dome. We're all just passing through. Every soul shall taste death. All the MPs sitting in these seats, we'll all leave these seats one day. As long as the sky says, "Let's put a nice sound in the dome," I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0588	Thank you. I need to make a statement: We have co-opted the committee's membership elections for the parliamentary investigation at a General Assembly where I chaired it by chance. Here we had all our fellow MPs, the group's vice presidents, and the clerks. In the presence of the General Assembly, we have carried out this creation. Therefore, as our Council, I do not justify the criticism expressed by the speaker. I wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0041par0593	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0594	Mr. President, now, sir...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0595	Mr. Faruk Bal... I promise Mr. Bal.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0596	Dear Faruk Bal...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0597	I'll give him my word.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0598	No, sir, I'll tell you something after that, Mr. Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0599	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0600	Sir, when there was a commission meeting about this, you were present during the draw. And when your Zatıal filmed this, there was a direct line there -- there was a video of it -- is that it? That's your expression? So...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0601	What do you mean, that's it? Is that it?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0602	Yeah. If you'd like...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0603	Okay, I don't want to start an argument.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0604	Sir, let's open the discussion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0605	Well, consider it that way.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0606	Let's open...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0607	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0042par0608	So who is this here, or this? Can you imagine that we have no idea who you're going to read, that you're having second thoughts about?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0609	You've come to that conclusion. I think I'm making that choice with the clerk members here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0043par0611	Sir, let's look at those images.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0612	The fourth speaker is Batman Congressman Bengi Yıldız. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0044par0614	Mr. President, about me...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0615	I promised, I called the speaker. Bengi Star...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0044par0617	Sir, you've considered my speech. I'd like word from you for bullying, and I'd like you to...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0045par0618	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0619	I didn't tease you; I just said we did what you told us to do.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0044par0620	Sir, what are you afraid of? Mr. President, I'm going to bring up your image.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0621	Okay, let Mr. Bengi Star speak, and I'll give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0046par0623	I don't speak in this discussion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0624	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0625	No, I didn't promise you anything. I have read the name of Bengi Star, and now I will promise him, and then I will consider your request. Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0626	Mr. President, no, sir, you have to promise me.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0627	Dear Honey...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0628	No, sir, you will evaluate me.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0048par0629	Sir, we have a visual. This one or this one... who did you choose there? We know where it came from.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0630	Dear Honey...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0631	You made a statement about me. You made an unrealistic statement. I'll show them your speech.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0632	Dear Honey, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0633	Sir, please, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0634	I call for Bengi Star, and I say I will give you my word. Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0635	Sir, you will now. Don't let it get cold. Now's the time.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0636	Dear Honey, I'll give you my word, allow me...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0047par0637	Sir, before it gets cold, people are watching us on the TV screen...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0638	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0049par0639	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0040par0640	Mr. Bengi Star, come in. Aren't you going to talk?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0050par0642	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0051par0643	Won't he talk, Mr. Bengi? No, if he won't talk, then let's move on.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0052par0644	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0053par0645	E, I called you in to talk. I called you, and I'm going to move on to the other speaker.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0051par0646	Sir, Mr. Bengi doesn't want to talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0054par0647	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0055par0648	No, Mr. President, you can't promise anyone else until you evaluate my request. You teased me, and I want words for teasing.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0056par0649	Look, I'll appreciate when I promise you, Mr. Honey, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0055par0650	Mr. President, you teased me, and I'll answer to the taunt before it gets out of hand.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0056par0651	I didn't pick on you, we just told you our share.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0055par0652	You made fun of me.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0056par0653	I'm not promising you right now, Mr. Bengi Star will speak, and I'll give you my word later.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0057par0654	All right, all right, all right.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0055par0655	I'd like to request an interview on your attitude.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit01spe0056par0656	Ten-minute recess...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0056par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (9/8) We continue talks on the main Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report. Commission? Here. Now it was his turn to speak for himself, Batman MP Bengi Yildiz. However, Mr Faruk Bal and I had a long conversation inside, and he had a technical explanation, but I gave him my word. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0058par0010	I'm showing a video now, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0056par0011	You're running out of time. Come on in.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0058par0012	Yes, I just made a statement that there was a serious situation in the establishment of the Commission. I believe Mr. President is well-intentioned in this matter, considering his testimony inside, but two days before the election day, all the press spoke. I heard it, everybody heard it. The first drawing of the lottery, the first name, the fact that his name came up, left a question mark in our mind. In our study, the AKP has put to a vote of the candidates it has shown for the election of the Commission, and he hesitates to ask the bureaucrat friend a question on the ballot he drew. As he reads the compass in his hand, he says, "Is this it?" And he reads the name of Mr. Hakkı villager over his saying, "This is it?" These two days ago, when the press asked him about his name and then asked him about it, I knew about it three or five times. His statement in the form of a conspiracy reveals the existence of a conspiracy. I pointed to this plot in my speech, and so I expressed the truth, the truth, to the great Assembly, and to the valued members of the Turkish nation watching us at the head of their television. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0056par0015	Thank you. I also want to thank you for the words you said about me. In the video, the employees of the Laws' Decisions told Mr. Vural to explain the technicality of the sentence. I'd like to rephrase that there's nothing wrong with me about this. Now, it's your turn to speak, Mr. Bengi Star, Batman MP. We finally got you on the stand, Mr. Star. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0059par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're dealing with the biggest allegations of corruption in the history of the Republic, specifically by choosing my words. If any of the opposition parties --CHP, MHP or HDP -- were one of the government's ministers in the past to be accused of 1% of these allegations, 40 commissions would be set up, 40 times referred to the Supreme Court. I really believe that from the bottom of my heart. I want to express my thoughts here today objectively and objectively, without being under any influence from my political tendencies. If we go to bed on these allegations... there was a sign when we won Batman City Hall, and the power before us was the one who bought and the one who gave. And then, when we had a meeting with friends, I said, what was it like? They said, "Mr. Counsellor, I swear to God, like in the past, the briber and the briber were very pleased. There's been no change. Now, we don't discuss bribery just at this time. In all the rulings, allegations of bribery have been raised, investigated, investigated, people have gone to the Supreme Court and paid their dues. In Osmanlı, even during that great Padişah period, which we call "Law Sultan Süleyman," Fuzuli says: "I saluted and they didn't take bribes as bribes." It means that bribery is a systemic and permanent event, not an individual event. We need to work on this, but if we say that the person who bribes in our day and the person who buys it is satisfied. If we lie down on it, we will have a real responsibility to history. I'm thinking about it personally. Now, my dear friends, the commission of the investigation was a commission of judicial action. So they weren't there on behalf of CHP, MP, HDP, AKP, they had to be independent and neutral, they had to put their hands on their consciences and make decisions based on those files. Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that Mr. Villager is here now, because he is the basis of my criticism. I don't know where he got his orders. He was the head of my commission. That's the first day's work. I'm guessing that while the Justice and Development Party is setting up the investigation commission, we're being hit hard right now, so let's spread this out and make a few months. Anyway, if they come at us like this, we'll be out of power, and if we don't, we'll clear it. I think he thought, because of all the developments I'm going to make right now. Now, dear friends, can you imagine a commission that's independent and neutral, and they're not really part of any party, they shouldn't be. Our hearing on day one is as the oldest and as the youngest member to me, Mr. Riza Turmen was our President, and we met as his president. We said, what I said was that right now, I haven't made any decisions about anyone, and I want to think objectively, that this investigation commission should not be a laundering commission. This investigative commission should eliminate the current pollution of information in public. Let's not say he's guilty or not guilty, but right now the public is divided, some say he's guilty, others say he's innocent. Our job is to find out the truth. How do we start with that? If you choose the commissioner, when you choose the deputy president, when you choose the secretary, when you choose the spokesman -- I mean, they're not in opposition, but if we put even one of the opposition there, that would be a really objective assessment of the credibility of your commission, but what happened, dear friends? The president, the vice president, the spokesman, the clerk, was chosen from one party. It was already very clear where this was going to go. Mr. President closed the meeting; we don't know when we're meeting, we don't know what our road map is. We applied to the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Reza Turmen and Erdal Beyle, and we said, "Mr. President, there is a council called the Council of Judges and Prosecutors; judges, prosecutors go there if they are wrong." Don't we have a position to appeal to this Commission? Mr. President is president. He's gone. We can't do anything, we can't gather, we don't know where to go, we don't know what to do. We filed a petition. A few days later, we learned from the press that since the Commission is acting in a judicial manner, I can't interfere with its work. One by one, what did the peasant do: according to the 26th Amendment of the Civil Code, we applied. He gave a copy of the files that came to the council to the lawyers; we do the prosecution's job, we don't get it. I mean, we're not in the D.A.'s office -- we're in there with him in some sort of third party... Only Mr. Rights Villager and his friends are in that position, but since we're the opposition party, we're going to leak this information at any moment. He didn't give us the papers, but he gave them to the lawyers. What else did he do, dear friends? The Witnesses -- you know 99 percent of them -- are all related to the suspects and are being investigated, so what does that mean? When they come, we withdraw from the witness. They will say, "They will not testify." Before they say so, Mr. Rights Villager reminded them. Without asking the opposition, the witnesses who came in this way, without having a meeting... I don't know if Mr. Hakký met with friends in his own home, but at least we're dealing with a practice where he single-handedly chose and called witnesses, took their statements -- and in practice -- all of them were withdrawn from testimony. We've established a subcommittee, dear friends, from three people; two AKP people, one CHP fellow. They're going to Istanbul, they're going to look at files that have gone untraceable, and if there's a third party that we don't know about, they're going to take their statements. We say in particular: Mr. Subcommittee, look, we want to hear about Reza Sarraf, Abdullah Happani, and all others alike as Commissions. You're not listening to this in Istanbul. They call it OK. This subcommittee goes to Istanbul where he listens to all the leading players we're talking about. Our fellow lawyers know, it's called direct contact with evidence, which means the Commission will listen to them, see them, watch their behavior, and come to a conclusion according to him. All of these individuals we talked about were heard by the lower commission in Istanbul, so they were not called to Ankara. So we haven't been able to get in touch with them. As for the ministers we've been waiting to hear from for months... our commissioner specifically chooses the day Erdogan Bayraktar is going abroad, he flies at four o'clock, puts a meeting at 2:30. Put it in ten, put it in eleven, put it in twelve. Why don't you have a meeting at 2:30, and we'll all have questions for the Minister who'll fly at 4:00, take it to another day, broadly. We don't discuss any of this in the Commission, we don't argue, we don't decide. The latest incident, the latest incident that led to our withdrawal from the Commission, was brought to the court by none of the members of the Commission, without meeting with the AKP members, dear friends. It really showed us that we can't stay there anymore, that we're dysfunctional. Now, I want certain documents to appear in the press the day after the deposition of some individuals... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I told you on the Commission, and I told you on my resignation.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0060par0039	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0059par0040	I've said everywhere that this approach is not true, it's a violation of the privacy of the investigation. But if the investigation is compromised...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0060par0041	Mr. Star, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0059par0042	...let the Commission gather, make a decision. He thinks we should all have something in common. But with one-sided savings, Mr. President, once that decision was made, we said that our commission was finished, so we should share it with the public. I share with you my thoughts, my feelings, and my respects, my greetings.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0060par0045	Thank you. The fifth speaker is Mr. Omar Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0061par0049	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, after the statement of Mr. Faruk Bal. I really wanted to be on this committee, and the officials of my party wanted it so badly, I couldn't get out of four different rules. I mean, I thought it was shortsighted, but I hope there's nothing else involved. Today, some friends told me that the people are having a historic moment. Congress isn't having a historic moment. It's a very ordinary day. The reason is, we took corruption for granted. Corruption has now become very common in this country. Is it because the ruling party's deputies don't care that they're coming in empty these days, or don't they want to hear some words from here? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Actually, something very important has happened. To put it simply this way: a man of Iranian origin, then a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, in his 30s, famous for marrying an artist, so if this operation was not done, he would be head of the Council of Ministers almost a year later, a painting like that. He's got presents, he's walking. Sir, there was no $500,000 in this shoe box, there was no money in the dress. How much is a dress from Vakko? A police officer took 15-20 lira in traffic -- money for soup -- while we're on trial for bribery, we ignore them in this country; pianos, trips, coins, stamps, safes -- but unfortunately, the prosecutor who conducts this 17-25 December investigation doesn't see it, neither does the Commission see it, they don't want to see it. Let me be clear: I also know some of the former ministers who were subject to this investigation. As a real lawman, I'm not saying as a politician that there's a major theft involved. Covering this up is no longer possible. Once we got to the technical dimension, sir, that's where the forbidden evidence was obtained during this investigation. If evidence is initially forbidden, then the following evidence is forbidden. So everything that happens in the middle is obvious, and after the technical follow-up, the real job is to look at the financial dimension, and it's completely covered up, unfortunately. My dear friends have been traded in gold, turned into a laughing stock of the entire Republic of Turkey. It's a matter of 1.5 tons of gold from Ghana. It's clearly in the investigation file. Of course, you don't see it when you don't want to be seen. In fact, this gold did not come from Ghana. The agreement between ULS Airlines and Sorinet Group is this: this gold will be four tons, taken from Sabiha Gökchen to Libya, from Libya to Ghana to Ghana, from Ghana to Sabiha Gökçen. In fact, it is gold that runs through the borders of the Republic of Turkey. But if you don't want to see it, you won't see it. Corruption is here, smuggling is here. But none of this was meant to be seen. Some of my friends told me when I came out here, "Ya, address some consciences." I'm not going to address any consciences, because I've already been under pressure from the Justice and Development Party for a year. A year ago, a friend of mine from the Justice and Development Party, who is now on the Commission, told me exactly this:
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0062par0058	Explain that name, explain that name.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0061par0059	That's the problem, that's the problem. And the boss is leaving. He said.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0062par0060	Explain who he was.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0061par0061	In fact, none of these ministers matter.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0062par0062	Explain that name, explain the name.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0061par0063	These ministers have become really disreputable. The opposition has been hitting them like a punching bag for over a year, yeah, that's right. There are a lot of articles written against them in the press. These people's private lives have suddenly disappeared, their political lives are over, these ministers will be alone from now on. The people who are with you now are going to walk away after a period of time, and they're going to have a miserable life waiting for them, a sad life waiting for them with their families. No one really cares about these ministers. In fact, if these ministers were tried, if they really were on the Supreme Court, maybe they'd have a chance to create a new world for themselves, a new life. I'd like these former ministers to come and defend here once, to listen to them, people, one. Second, they want to be tried in the Supreme Court. They're only being prevented from being judged and exonerated for one. In fact, we do not trust the Constitutional Court. 8 members of today's Supreme Court, Mr. Abdullah Gul, elected 1 member of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. According to 17 votes, the majority is already in the people the Justice and Development Party prefers, and such a trial is beneficial. Dear lawmakers, the average 70 per cent can't come back to this parliament at every election. This is an important moment. You will make an important choice here. Most of us won't be able to come back to these podiums. We won't be able to talk around here. I want to address the minds. Look, if you love your party, if you love yourselves, if you love your country, think of something: At the time Tansu Cirler and Mesut Yilmaz cleared each other. They're missing their party right now. Be reasonable, please, make a rational decision, and when you make this decision, don't go into those closed spaces and show them off, we're big men. I'd like to tell the entire House that we're going to go to that closed place, put that compass on whatever conscience we have, and we're going to throw it in here, and we're going to watch it. When the time comes, the accounting will be restored. That's when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will have a historic day, not now. Now it's just another day. Now we're living in a moment where corruption is taken for granted, where the majority is dominant. In this sense, the opposition is desperate, and I don't believe that the ruling party MPs, at work, will have a conscience, will go, will show any other kind of will. The Justice and Development Party will demonstrate loyalty in a covenant here. I think the point is, will this promise remain loyal, or will this sense of custody continue forever? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my last words to the great nation. When we were kids, you know, we were eight or nine years old, and we were bird-hunting, and when we threw stones at storks, our elders used to beat us, and they called us holy animals, we couldn't understand. The storks are animals that have seen Mecca and Medina. They passed over the Kaaba, saying, "Glory be to us." After all, the documentaries were shown on television, and we realized that the stork is not the stork of dry climates, it never goes over the Kaaba, and we realized that the stork doesn't eat food so well that it deserves the quality of a holy animal; it eats snakes, it eats centipedes, it eats frogs. O my people! The stork doesn't eat storks; it eats storks, it eats centipedes, it eats frogs. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0063par0069	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Sixth and final speaker, Congressman Bilal Uzer, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0064par0072	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Dona and Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar's Commission Report on Parliamentary Investigations. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Our commission served under the 100th Amendment, the 101st and 112th provisions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the other provisions and Penal Code. The 2012/120653 investigation conducted by the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office for Terror and Organized Crimes, which is known as the December 17th operation, has resulted in a verdict that there is no room for prosecution for suspects outside the relevant ministers, and on the basis of the objection, İstanbul 6. The verdict, considered by the Criminal Court of Peace, was adopted in accordance with the law, and was finalised by December 15, 2014 and 2014/3162 with the rejection of appeals. This non-obsession decision sheds light on the work of our Commission. Our commission has stated in its motion to investigate former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, according to the 107th Article of the Turkish Parliament's Council of Turkey's inquiry motion, as stated in its motion to conduct investigation into the former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, in exchange for some financial and undetectable benefits from Reza Sarraf, this person has been granted the privilege of trading gold in Iran, and has brokered gold from Ghana, which he has attempted to intervene in the country by means of illegal means of subsidiaries, by obstructing legal and administrative investigations related to 1.5 tonnes of gold and administrative investigation into Dubai. The evidence has been gathered, and the former Minister of Economy Zafer Calayan has made his plea before the Commission. In a summary of the relevant former minister's defence, after claiming that the investigations conducted by the republic's prosecutor's office and law enforcement have been held against the Constitution, the law and the Parliament's Court, were invalidated by the bet, he stated that he had no intention of obstructing legal or administrative investigations, and that his claim that he had granted concessions was completely unrealistic, as well as that he had no interest in obstructing legal or administrative investigations. He also stated that while there was talk of forgery, there was no forged document. He said that there was no smuggling charge was determined by the state's attorney's office, and that his alleged involvement in this crime was not a crime at all. He also stated that he paid for the alleged watch and piano as a gift. In the investigation carried out by our Commission, Bakırköy has stated that the investigation carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the incidents carried out above has resulted in a verdict of non-trafficking action and that there has been no charge of trafficking and that there has been no charge of trafficking and that there has been no objection to the other issues, and that the decision has been made by İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutors who initially decided to investigate law and investigate the evidence collected in the investigation carried out by Republican prosecutors has been invalidated, and that there has been no grounds for prosecution. About former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, again, in exchange for some material gains from Reza Sarraf, which were undetectable, this individual gave his vehicles the privilege of using the security tape in traffic and assigned protection police to those mentioned, which has been detained with him and some other suspects and relatives against the law, and has ordered them to investigate whether or not they were doing any criminal or intelligence work on this person, in order to prevent media reports about the irregularities of this witness, and because of his actions, he has committed an infrastration, and because of his fraud, he has committed an infrastigation of his corruption, and our Commission. In its defence on the verbs of the relevant investigation motion, the minister briefly stated that the decision of the Council of Ministers to use the tape of security and protection in traffic belongs to the governors in the provinces and that there was no contribution to the decision to grant protection, that there was no violation in the license plate allocation, that the appeal to the exception was launched before its own ministry, and that the process was carried out in accordance with legislation, and that the Council of Ministers had made its decision to investigate whether or not to investigate the investigation of Reza Sarraf, and that the person involved was being followed by some civilian people. Following his claim that he had tried to block the press reports mentioned in the investigation motion, he also stated that he had informed him that an unfair publication would be issued against the person involved, and that there was absolutely no way to prevent or suppress any other news. In exchange for some material gains from Reza Sarraf, former Minister of the European Union, including a tourist-certified hotel, and an attempt to arrange visas for their relatives, it has been asked to investigate institutions and organisations concerned with whether there is an investigation into this person, in order to prevent news from being reported in the press in connection with the operation of this individual. As a summary of the relevant minister's defence, Reza Sarraf made an attempt to open a hotel, which is why he shared information on the way to buying a building from a person he knew, and that he himself had no interest except to say. As far as he knew, this project did not take place, which he said was under the authority of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to open the hotel, and that the allegations that he had been sharing information on the way of buying a building from a person he knew, and that the allegations that he had been doing research on this person were completely unrealistic, and that there was no way to prevent news from being reported in the press. In addition to these arguments, it has been revealed that the witnesses who were being heard did not make a statement that they had provided a benefit in any other way or because of the alleged incidents. As a result of an investigation into İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, Reza Sarraf and others on the charge of bribery, it has been decided that the actions of the suspects who have been investigated have not been charged with bribing, that technical surveillance and wiretaps on this matter have been taken illegally, against the law, and that decision has been determined as a result of the rejection of the objections made. About former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, the director and members of a criminal organization have approved special privileged development plans for a person in exchange for certain interests that have been provided to them and cannot be determined for the amount and value of which they have been provided, and that some projects that have been done contrary to their development plans have been compromised by their irregularities and that they have allowed them to pass irresponsiblely through audits, and that some of these actions have been investigated and that some of these actions have been carried out by the former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdoğan Bayraktar, and that some of these companies who have taken a job from the Ministry have not been able to commit any wrongdoings to give them to the partners of food affairs, and that there is no basis for their investigation, and that there is no evidence that there is no reason to have been any involvement in the investigation, and there is no evidence that there is no blame on the investigation, that there is no criminal organization. In addition, as a result of the investigation carried out by our Commission, no evidence has been found that written verbs have been carried out in the motion to investigate. Since there is not enough doubt about the transfer to the Supreme Court, former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Bagis and former Minister of Environment and Urbanisation Erdoğan Bayraktar have been decided in a majority of votes at our Commission's January 5, 2015 meeting. Our commission has completed its work with great sacrifice. Appreciation is for the General Assembly. As I put an end to my words, I salute the High Council again.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0085	Thank you. Now it's time for former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former European Union Minister Egemen Bagis, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar... I wonder if they'll talk. I'll take turns. Mr. Mehmet Zafer Çağalan? He's got a note, I'll pass it on.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0066par0091	No, sir, that's not gonna happen. You can't read his note.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0067par0092	There is no such thing in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0093	What am I supposed to say?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0068par0094	No way!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0097	Mr. Calayan will not be able to join the General Assembly because of the death of his mother.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0069par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0099	We ask for God's mercy to the deceased, and we offer our condolences to his family.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0069par0100	I said that at the beginning of my words.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0101	I know.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0069par0102	We had an application for this vote to be held later in the event of death, but it wasn't accepted. So, those who don't agree to this...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0103	We've expressed our condolences.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0069par0104	I'd like to say that the people who made this will are the ones who won't accept it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0108	Mr. Muammar Guler, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0070par0109	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0110	What's your request?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0070par0111	Mr. President, I'm not...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0071par0112	Not from your place, from the stand...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0114	Wait a minute, guys... What is your request? The mike's on.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0072par0116	He'll be on the stand.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0073par0117	Mr. President, I have a brief statement to make, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0118	According to 60?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0073par0119	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0120	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0073par0123	Mr. President, there is no other subject to add to my verbal and written defense to the Investigation Commission. The decision and the decision rests with your honoured council. I supply, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0125	Thank you. Your Majesty, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0074par0127	I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0065par0128	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0075par0129	On the stand, on the stand!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0074par0131	Mr. President, I respect the Commission's decision. Appreciation belongs to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0076par0133	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0077par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0076par0136	Okay.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0078par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0079par0138	There's no theater like this!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit02spe0076par0142	Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Parliamentary Investigation Commission's Report. Now I'm gonna take a 15-minute break, and we're gonna do a study on the motions.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit03spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0076par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (9/8) Talks were completed on the main Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report. The commission is in place. Members of parliament, the Commission report is intended not to refer the former ministers to the Supreme Court. However, the fifth joke of the Article 112 of the Civil Code has rejected reports of the Commission not to be referred to the Supreme Court, but it is possible with the acceptance of a motion on the High Court to show which sentence the decision of the transfer will be based on. Under this provision, 53 motions for former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlar, 52 motions for former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, 53 motions for former Minister of the European Union Egemen Bagis, 53 proposals for former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar. Members of parliament, if the 100th Article of the Constitution is required, the transfer of the subject to the Supreme Court will be decided. The individuality of the criminals, one of the basic principles of criminal law, shall be carried out separately for each minister. The first vote is on 53 motions issued on former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağalan. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donate and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar Parliamentary Investigation Commission have decided that the vote did not require the transfer of former Minister of Economy Zafer Çağan to the Supreme Court. Due to the findings of our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's report to the Supreme Court. Due to the rejection of the commission report and the former Minister's motion for Parliamentary Investigation, we demand that the opposition to the Law on Anti-Trafficking 5607 be referred to the Supreme Court under Articles 204 and 252 of the Turkish Penal Code 5237. Levent Gök Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Former Minister of Economics Mehmet Zafer Çağlar, former Minister of Interior Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donar and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Parliamentary Assembly of İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP Riza Turmen and Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgel are requested to be transferred to the Supreme Court on grounds of the Council. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar's Parliamentary Investigation Commission has voted in a vote that former Minister of Economy Zafer Çağan does not need to transfer to the Supreme Court. Because of the concrete findings we've received as a result of our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's report and decision not to refer former Economy Minister Zafer Cavalan to the Supreme Court. We demand that the Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237 be transferred to the Supreme Court under Articles 204, 252 under the Law Against Trafficking. Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar, has been requested to be referred to the Supreme Court in accordance with the issues in the Commission's Commission on Assembly Investigation Report and former Minister Zafer Çağlayan has carried out actions against the alleged charges. As a matter of fact, the report of the Coroner's Medical Report in the Commission's Report, showing that phone calls were real, and the concrete findings of the MASAK experts' "incompatibility of their transaction statements" -- which is inadmissible property increase report -- are also mandatory to transfer Zafer Çağan to the Supreme Court. Congressmans, I will now have them read the names of the owners of the other motions after I have read the first motion, since the text of 47 separate motions signed by one MP is the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the period beginning on 17-25 December 2013 on charges of bribery and corruption, former Minister of Economics Zafer Çağlaş, the judicial arm of the court, the intervening of the proceedings against the judiciary, the pressure of the members to be pressured by the law scandals, the examination of the paralegals in the eyes of the public during the extradition, not by the rule of law, but by the violations of the parliamentary commission of the parliamentary inquiry, as a result of the imposition of the numberary majority, the commission has been replaced by pressure on the president and members during the commission vote on the day of corruption. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. Former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan has been found to have committed crimes of opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, false documents and bribery. Here's the thing. When the report is examined by opposition sheriffs and file managers, • Public Bank Director Sulejman Aslan, Chief of Staff Onur Kaya, Mustafa Behcet and his son Salih Kaan Çalan have provided a variety of concessions to Riza Sarraf, which he obtained from Reza Sarraf, whose technical surveillance, e-mails and digital evidence has been taken into custody, and has been conducted in a technical follow-up by Sarraf • Turns the money from Riza Sarraf's companies into public bank accounts, which were sent to Dubai and Iran, Reza Sarraf (dösiz or Turkish lira) to pay 0.4% and 0.5% of the money that came into the company's account, • the administrative and judicial investigations of 1.5 tons of gold, which Ghana wanted to smuggle into the country, were blocked and provided with the access and access of the gold to Dubai, • Reza Sarraf was given 32 million, 53,600 euros at different times, $6,766,750 and $3,460, • Riza Sarraf was given an hour worth 300,000 Swiss francs (700,000 TL) and the payment document presented in the defence documents was arranged in a simple way, which was not legal except in the bank system. • the unexplainable $106,400 worth of piano that he did not properly display in the manifest of goods, • During the ministry's mandate, there are large amounts of actions in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there are inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences, • During the ministry's mandate, there have been major increases in personal and first-degree relatives in their real estate and the lack of written and verbal defences and inconsistencies. We've reached the conclusion. For reasons explained above, 252, titled "Fashioning in Official Documents" by former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan, 257, titled 257, titled "Conspiracy in Official Documents" by the Turkish Penal Code. In accordance with its provisions, the High Court is required to submit the truth to an independent and impartial trial for justice. I demand and demand the necessary. Adnan Şişik Ugly Ahmet Duran Bulut Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Ali Longırmak Scholar Light Atila Kaya Bahattin Sugar Bulent Belen Celal Adan Jamalettin Lightning D. Ali Torlak Edip Semih Yalçın Emin Çınar Emin Haluk Ayhan Engin Alan Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ismet Büğataman Kemalettin Yilmaz Koray Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Merkel Akşener Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Murat Basesgioğlu Mustafa Erdem Münir Kutluata Necati Özensoy Oktay Ozturk Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Rusar Demirel Sadir won't stop Sinan Okan Sumer Oral Tunca Tuskayay Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh Yusuf Halaçoğlu Yusuf Ziya Irbeç Zuhal Topcu Now, I'm going to read the other four motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the period which began on bribes and corruption on December 17-25, 2013, the former Minister of Economics Zafer Çağlaş has been suspended due to allegations against the judicial arm, interference in the judiciary, the sending of the proceedings to parliament and the suppression of the members' wishes during the extradition, the obstruction of law scandals, the examination of the MPs, the reviews of the proceedings, the parliamentary investigation commission, as a result of the imposition of the number majority, as a result of pressure on the commission vote on the president and members, on the day the day of the commission's vote, on January 5th, 2014, has been placed under pressure on the members's wishes, not under the rule of the rule of law, but on the rule of law, and on the basis of state's over which the rule of law has been tainted, and on the basis of corruption. The process, which has been carried out with the four ministers, provides the basis for a critical and grave perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan's report on opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, false documents and bribery charges was reviewed, opposition harms and file managers; • Public Bank Director Sulejman Aslan, Chief of Staff Onur Kaya, Mustafa Behcet and his son Salih Kaan Çalan have provided a variety of concessions to Reza Sarraf. This has been taken into custody through technical surveillance, e-mail study and digital evidence, and was conducted in a technical follow-up by Sarraf • Turns the money from Riza Sarraf's companies into public bank accounts, which were sent to Dubai and Iran, Reza Sarraf (dösiz or Turkish lira) to pay 0.4% and 0.5% of the money that came into the company's account, • the administrative and judicial investigations of 1.5 tons of gold, which Ghana wanted to smuggle into the country, were blocked and provided with the access and access of the gold to Dubai, • Reza Sarraf was given 32 million, 53,600 euros at different times, $6,766,750 and $3,460, • Riza Sarraf was given an hour worth 300,000 Swiss francs (700,000 TL) and the payment document presented in the defence documents was arranged in a simple way, which was not legal except in the bank system. • the unexplainable $106,400 worth of piano that he did not properly display in the manifest of goods, • During the ministry's mandate, there are large amounts of actions in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there are inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences, • During the ministry's mandate, there have been major increases in personal and first-degree relatives in their real estate and the lack of written and verbal defences and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons stated above, former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan is 257 under the Turkish Penal Code's title "Use Duty to Bad." In accordance with the clause, the High Court is required to submit the truth to an independent and impartial trial for justice. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the period which began on bribes and corruption on December 17-25, 2013, the former Minister of Economics Zafer Çağlaş has been suspended due to allegations against the judicial arm, interference in the judiciary, banning the members of the law scandals, which were displayed in front of the public during the extradition, "blocking the examination of lawmakers, not by the rule of law" and "staining the rule of law" during the parliamentary investigation commission, as a result of the violation of the numberal majority, on the day of the commission vote on presidents and members, has been replaced by pressured during the commission vote on the day of corruption. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan's report on opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, false documents and bribery charges was reviewed, opposition harms and file managers; • Public Bank Director Sulejman Aslan, Chief of Staff Onur Kaya, Mustafa Behcet and his son Salih Kaan Çalan have provided a variety of concessions to Riza Sarraftan, which was taken into custody through technical surveillance, e-mail study and digital evidence, which was shown to Sarraf (Saraf) as a bribe to his firm's bank account by a certain proportion, and was shown by Happani during a face-to-face meeting by Sarraf and by Sarraf (Saraf) in a personal examination of the Iranian bank. • that Riza Sarrafa companies have been transformed into subsidized money into public bank accounts, that they have been sent to Dubai and Iran, and that Riza Sarrafin has been paid 0.4% and 0.5% of the money that comes into the company's account (dösiz or Turkish lira). • the administrative and judicial investigations of 1.5 tons of gold, which Ghana wanted to smuggle into the country, were blocked and provided with the access and access of the gold to Dubai, • Reza Sarraf was given 32 million, 53,600 euros at different times, $6,766,750 and $3,460, • Riza Sarraf was given an hour worth 300,000 Swiss francs (700,000 TL) and the payment document presented in the defence documents was arranged in a simple way, which was not legal except in the bank system. • the unexplainable $106,400 worth of piano that he did not properly display in the manifest of goods, • During the ministry's mandate, there are large amounts of actions in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there are inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences, • During the ministry's mandate, there have been major increases in personal and first-degree relatives in their real estate and the lack of written and verbal defences and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan is 252, titled "Rüsvet" by the Turkish Penal Code. In accordance with the clause, it is necessary for the Supreme Court to submit to the revelation of the truth and to uphold justice in an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the process that began on December 17-25, 2013, the proceedings against former Minister of Economy Zafer Çağlaş, the judicial arm of the court, the interference in the judiciary, the pressure of the proceedings to be sent to Parliament, and the pressure of the members to be pressured by the law scandals, the examination of the MPs in public during the extradition, "the rule of law" and "in the process of the parliamentary investigation" of the parliamentary inquiry commission, as a result of the imposition of the numberal majority, and the corruption of corruption on the day of the commission vote has taken place on the day of the commission. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan's report on opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, false documents and bribery charges was reviewed, opposition harms and file managers; • Public Bank Director Sulejman Aslan, Chief of Staff Onur Kaya, Mustafa Behcet and his son Salih Kaan Çalan have provided a variety of concessions to Riza Sarraf, which he obtained from Reza Sarraf, whose technical surveillance, e-mails and digital evidence has been taken into custody, and has been seen in a technical study of the Iranian funds sent to him by his firms in the People's Bank as bribes at a certain rate, and during a face-to-face meeting with Happani, the list was shown to him by Sarraf and the court's personal examination of this information was conducted by Sarraf. Riza Sarraf's companies were turned into subsidiaries of the People's Bank account, which were sent to Dubai and Iran, where Reza Sarraf was paid 0.4% and 0.5% of the money that came into the company's account (dösiz or Turkish lira). The administrative and judicial investigations of 1.5 tons of gold, which Ghana wanted to smuggle into the country, were blocked and provided with the access and access of the gold to Dubai, He was given 32 million, 53,600 euros at different times by Reza Sarraf, $6,766,750, and $3,460,000. Riza Sarraf gave her an hour worth of 300,000 Swiss francs (700,000 TL) and the payment document presented in the defence documents was arranged in a simple way, which was not legal except in the bank system. The source is unexplainable. It's worth $106,400, and it doesn't show its piano properly in the bill of goods. During the ministry's mandate, there were a large amount of actions in the bank accounts of its personal and first-degree relatives, and there were inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. During the ministry's mandate, there have been major increases in personal and first-degree relatives in their real estate and in their written and verbal defences, inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons stated above, former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan was 204, titled "False in Official Documents" of the Turkish Penal Code. In accordance with the Article of Truth, and in an independent and impartial trial, justice must be granted to the Supreme Court. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the period which began on bribes and corruption on December 17-25, 2013, the former Minister of Economics Zafer Çağlaş has been suspended by the pressure of interference in the judicial arm, interference in the judiciary, the arrest of members of the committee during the extradition, the obstruction of law scandals, the examination of lawmakers, "the rule of the proceedings" and "stainment of the parliamentary investigation commission of parliament" as a result of the violation of the number majority, and the corruption of the commission on the day of the parliamentary vote has taken place on presidents and members on the day of corruption. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan's report on opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, false documents and bribery charges was reviewed, opposition harms and file managers; In its own administration, Public Bank Director Süleyman Aslan, Chief of Staff Onur Kaya, Mustafa Behcet and his son Salih Kaan Çalayan provided various concessions to Riza Sarraf Riza Sarraf's companies were turned into subsidiaries of the People's Bank account, which were sent to Dubai and Iran, where Reza Sarraf was paid 0.4% and 0.5% of the money that came into the company's account (dösiz or Turkish lira). The administrative and judicial investigations of 1.5 tons of gold, which Ghana wanted to smuggle into the country, were blocked and provided with the access and access of the gold to Dubai, He was given 32 million, 53,600 euros at different times by Reza Sarraf, $6,766,750, and $3,460,000. Riza Sarraf gave her an hour worth of 300,000 Swiss francs (700,000 TL) and the payment document presented in the defence documents was arranged in a simple way, which was not legal except in the bank system. The source is unexplainable. It's worth $106,400, and it doesn't show its piano properly in the bill of goods. During the ministry's mandate, there was a large number of actions in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in their written and verbal defences. During the ministry's mandate, there have been major increases in personal and first-degree relatives in their real estate and in their written and verbal defences, inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, former Economy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Zafer Çağalan is 255, titled "Nufüz Trade" by the Turkish Penal Code. In accordance with the clause, it is necessary to submit to the Supreme Court for justice in the emergence of truth and an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. Members of parliament, since these proposals for former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağalan are the same, I will co-operate and submit them to your votes. Mr. Vural, you've made a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0080par0148	Mr. President, part of the motions made by our MPs on their own terms were mentioned in various articles, and some were mentioned in one item. In this framework, we think that the Parliamentary General Assembly's will should be sent to the High Court, which is directly accurate, as it should be, to a full-fledged Supreme Court of State, as it should be, to a Supreme Court of Appeals, as it may decide to send the charges against these ministers to a Supreme Court, as well as to separate the relevant articles related to them. So, if there are different motions as far as the matter is concerned, there should be a separate vote in the direction of these substances. In addition, in these motions, the motions made by lawmakers on Article 257 concerning Zafer Çağlayan have been issued because no articles related to 257 have been mentioned in the Commission for Assembly Investigations on this matter, and I also recommend that the matter regarding the transfer of the Supreme Court be earmarked on the 257th article in these motions.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0081par0150	There's 255 and there's another item.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0080par0151	I would like to submit this amendment to the 257. It is a matter of providing the vote.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0081par0152	It's 255, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0080par0153	It's the same thing, and we think it's no different, but instead of taking the 257, the 257, the issue of the 257, is to be voted out.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0081par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0082par0155	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0081par0157	Mr. President, the motion for the establishment of an investigative commission on the Commission's report includes Articles 204 and 252 of the Turkish Penal Code on Mr. Zafer Çağlayan. As Mr. Oktay Vural has just said, the 257th Article Investigation Commission Report does not include the part of its motion to set up an investigative commission, which is the source of its report, he has just expressed it himself and must withdraw. In the same way, he would have to withdraw the 255. I offer it to the president's discretion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0160	You made a promise, Mr. Vural? Can I have your final opinion on the 255? Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0084par0164	Mr. President, Commissioner Kahramanmarash MP, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu has been mentioned in the opposition's case, there are articles related to them, but I would like to ask that the amendment to the vote be carried out on the basis of Article 255, which is the basis of the parliamentary investigation.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0165	Okay.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0084par0166	I'd like to hear a statement about 255 and 257.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0167	255 to 257...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0084par0168	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0169	Now, Mr. Vural, one of the motions for 255 to 257 is signed by Mr. Seyfetttin Yilmaz, and the other by Mr. Mehmet Günal.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0084par0170	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0171	I mean, if they're not pulling back on themselves, I don't have that kind of initiative to fix it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0085par0172	Mr. President, you can't process this as a presidential court.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0173	Mr. Elitaş, would you excuse me, please? Do they get their motions back?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0086par0175	They're taking it back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0176	Mr. President, you can't... you can't process it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0177	Okay, Mr. Elitaş, we're trying to figure it out. Okay, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0178	Yeah, it's not a tow, it's not a tow. You can't process it anyway.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0179	The two motions on the subject have been withdrawn by the owners.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0180	Mr. President, retreating by his owners is a process. You can't process this.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0088par0181	It can be taken, sir. There's no problem.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0182	Okay, Mr. Elitaş, okay.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0183	Mr. President, he's gonna have to file a report.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0083par0184	Next time, if it exists, we won't process it, okay. Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0185	Mr. President, for the record,
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0089par0186	Your procedure is correct, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0087par0187	It's not a retraction, it's not supposed to be processed. You're creating a new challenge.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0089par0188	It's being processed, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0192	In the third article of Article 100 of the Constitution, the decision to transfer to the Supreme Court is carried out by the secret vote of the single majority of its integer. The decision to transfer it to the Supreme Court is taken by the only majority of its integers. Therefore, we're going to hold the vote as a secret vote, and we're going to call 276 votes for the motion to be approved. As long as the meeting is enough, the request for the High Court will not be accepted if the vote of the secret vote is lower than 276. Now, I'd like to inform you on how the secret vote will be held. From Adana, the clerk from the members of the commission and the government, to İstanbul, starting at the commission, to İstanbul, including Istanbul, and the clerk during the government, to Zonguldak, to Zonguldak, to his MP, whose name is read, including Zonguldak, will be given a letter sealed with three round stamps, including one green and one red. Congressmans, I'm making a statement, please... The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. As it is known, of these stamps, the white one is accepted, the red one is rejected, and the green one is abstentional. Wait a minute, guys, there's something I just said, please, let's take care of them. After receiving three round stamps and marking your name in the name book, the member will put the stamp in the envelope and throw the other two stamps in the box. On the contrary, the letter containing the voting stamp will be placed in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. I'd like to ask the lawmakers not to form a condensation in front of the voting booths. Congressmans, in my earlier statement, I asked the MP who had been read the province to join the clerks, but I see that even though we're starting from Adana, friends from other provinces have joined the queue.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0091par0203	Mr. President, it's always been that way, whatever the tradition is.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0092par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0205	We all wish that the secret vote be carried out in a healthy manner, so we all need to pay attention to certain issues. Please, don't let the no-vote MP get in the line of voting. Please don't wait in front of the cabin while there's an MP in the booth. Please put the ballot in the envelope in the cabin and the curtain is drawn. I'd like to ask all of you to place the unused ballot stamps in the box inside the cabin, not to commit any acts that violate privacy inside or outside the cabin. Now, there are clerks on the right and on the left.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0093par0210	Is the Minister in charge there?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0211	I've asked the clerks one by one, four of them coming out of the cabins on my right and on my left, to vote for the other members after they're empty.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0093par0212	Mr. Secretary, there's an officer!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0213	Mr. Tanju, please, take your seat. You're not Adana MP, please!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0094par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0095par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0216	I'm not listening to anyone. Now, we begin the secret vote in Adana Province... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0096par0219	Mr. President, if everyone doesn't take their seats, take a break.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0220	Mr. Halaçoglu, I just spoke in Turkish and explained the situation from here...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0096par0221	They don't understand Turkish! And speak English, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0222	... But the MPs are in line. I'm not about to get off the stand and pull them out of there. Please, everyone make this request to the congressman.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0097par0223	Take a break, then.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0098par0224	Don't start, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0225	I repeat, the names of the MPs are being read, but there's so much buzzing in the hall that you can't hear them. Now, everyone, please have your peace. We're going to do this. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0099par0228	Mr. President, look, you haven't made it clear about the acceptance. Is this acceptance for sending to the Supreme Court or not sending red? I'm asking you to make that statement clear.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0229	I did, if you'd listened. Yes, I'm starting in Adana County, and please, let's keep quiet. [[Votings are being started.]] Deputy Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, Minister of Health Mehmet Müezzinoglu, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Illum, Foreign Minister Mevlüt Cevdet Yilmaz, Finance Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker will replace Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and Animalism, Minister of Economy Nihat Zebekci, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Commerce, Minister of Energy and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Canik Canik, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mehmet Sims and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Energy, Mehmet Mehdi Eker will replace Minister of Defence and Minister of Education, and Minister of Defence and Minister of Defence and Security, and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Security. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Let's raise the ballots, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0100par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0239	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0100par0240	Sir, in your statement regarding the voters who voted in the power of culture and tourism, Minister of Customs and Trade Nurettin Canikli will vote in place of Minister of Culture and Tourism Ömer Çelik, but it appears here that Veysel Eroğlu voted instead of Omar Çelik.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0241	Did Mr. Veysel use it instead?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0101par0242	It's a vote, bitch.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0100par0243	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0244	Wait a minute... Now, on behalf of the Minister of Culture and Tourism...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0102par0246	Not really, not really...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0247	Sorry, I'll explain. ...Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Minister of Customs and Trade, was told to vote. Is Mr. Canikli here?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0250	No.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0251	No.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0104par0252	He was here, he was here...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0253	Sir, Veysel Eroglu voted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0254	I'm looking at it now. Now, I'm going to ask him if Canikli voted twice or not.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0256	No, sir, it says here on the Diva ballot that Veysel Eroglu voted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0257	Well, okay, now I'm going to ask the Minister of Customs and Trade if it's a regular vote. That's what it would have turned out to be.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0258	There's a problem with power of attorney.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0259	So, I'm going to ask Mr. Omar Çelik to replace Mr. Nurettin Canikli if he voted by proxy.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0260	It doesn't matter who he gives power of attorney to.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0090par0261	He's supposed to be driving, yes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0262	Then he didn't use it. How did Veysel Eroglu...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0105par0263	Mr. President, let the vote be final, let the friends come...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0103par0264	Sir, would that happen?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0106par0265	That's not true, dear. We've done it. Okay? If it's wrong, it needs to be corrected. It's over anyway. Okay?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0107par0266	No, no, it needs to be explained before the vote is finalized.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0106par0267	Looks like we're going to have to vote again. It's a mistake.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0108par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0109par0269	We're looking, Mr. Vural. Tell me, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, how many votes did you vote for?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0110par0271	I voted for one. I used it on myself.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0111par0272	Then, Mr. President, since there's no power of attorney, Omar Çelik would have to cancel the game.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0109par0273	We don't know what he voted for, but let's see now, let's take a look at a proxy. Let's see, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0112par0274	Let the vote come to an end, folks, and we'll see.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0109par0276	Congressmans, I give the results of a secret vote on the proposal for the transfer to the Supreme Court regarding former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağalan: Number of votes used: 517 Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit According to this result, the motion was not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0113par0288	Resign, resign... Let the government resign.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0109par0289	Thus, the report of the Commission of Investigation has been accepted, so it has been decided that the former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağalan will not be transferred to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0113par0290	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit04spe0109par0291	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0109par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0113par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0109par0003	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0113par0006	Mr. President, first of all, you've made a statement to the Parliament about the votes of the MPs. With this report, they can only vote with these power of attorney on this table right here. In that case, you, I suppose, would have to have a power of attorney in your position to replace Minister of Culture and Tourism Omar Çelik (Turkish Minister of Customs and Trade Nurettin Canikli). Do you or don't you?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0109par0007	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0113par0008	I do. In this case, if there is one other vote regarding this vote, it is absolutely not right to vote, and the vote of Veysel Eroglu is not true. In this regard, it was not right for you to report your decision without any results related to the vote. Second: You have stated in your statement that 264 MPs have refused to accept anything related to the transfer to the Supreme Court. This will demonstrates that the Commission report was rejected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- in fact, because it could not find 276. Therefore, there is a rejected Commission's will in the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is how I want to express it. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly has not backed the Commission's decision not to move it to the Supreme Court, which clearly makes it clear that this Commission report does not satisfy the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, its will for bribery and corruption is clear.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0109par0010	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0114par0011	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0109par0012	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0114par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to bring the two issues to the attention of Mr. President and the General Assembly, number one: there's been an objection to the matter of acting as acting attorney, and you've announced the outcome of the vote before this objection is finalized, which is not true, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, who was voted as acting minister, did not vote for the person who gave the power of attorney, but voted for another Minister in his place. This game should not normally be considered valid, you have no explanation for it. The second thing I'm going to say is that the Supreme Court's motion to transfer to the Supreme Court has to be 276 votes in order to be accepted. Although the vote did not produce 276 votes in the direction of the transfer, it appears that 276 votes, the only total number of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, were to be rejected. This shows that some members of the Justice and Development Party Group have voted to be transferred to the Supreme Court or disagreed on the grounds that they did not. So the Council of Investigation Commission report was not approved by the General Assembly, it is the will, and I submit it to the General Assembly's knowledge, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0115par0018	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0116par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0115par0021	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0116par0023	Mr. President, first of all, a false statement has been used. It is not the Commission of Investigation report voted here, so the Commission of Investigation report has not been voted on, it is the motion against this, the motion has been voted on, and it is a motion rejected by the General Assembly, and this is the first. Second: A minister, based on general power of attorney, uses the most power of attorney for a minister, and there is nothing wrong with that. On behalf of a minister, a friend of ours used power of attorney, no problem. And as I said, it's not the Commission's report -- I'm correcting it -- it's the motion that's been voted out, and the motion has been rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0115par0025	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'll make a statement.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0117par0027	Mr. President, I have something to say...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0115par0028	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0117par0029	Now, however, it has already been explained which minister will vote for which minister.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0118par0030	There's a general power of attorney.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0119par0031	Not general, not general.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0117par0032	No... I got it, I got it from there. Secondly, Mr. President, I wonder if this vote came out of 264, didn't it?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0036	Now, lawmakers, what we're voting on here is not the Commission's report. As I began the vote just now, I put the motion for Mr. Zafer Calashan to a vote.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0121par0037	No, look at the transcripts, that's not what you said.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0038	I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0121par0039	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0040	I put the motion to a vote, not the commission's report, that's one.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0122par0041	Against the report...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0042	Second: Clerk members count the votes. The signatures and ballots correspond to each other as a custom, which they declared.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0123par0043	Double vote...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0044	If it were a double vote, it would have already come out, and it wouldn't have been able to match what I just said. We're all aware that the ministers will vote in place of another minister other than themselves, and that's the general power of attorney at the beginning of each law year.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0124par0046	Mr. President, he doesn't have access to the law enforcement office.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0047	In writing, we take the power of attorney from the Court: other than one minister, we get these things to measure whether the minister votes for two ministers, three ministers, and we also get the power of attorney.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0125par0048	Mr. President, there's no power of attorney in a secret vote.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0049	Now, there's a correlation between these ballots and the signatures, there's no reciprocal vote, so according to the statement of the clerks, I've explained that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0126par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0126par0053	It's not right to vote outside the power of attorney, is it?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0120par0054	Thank you, Mr. Vural, you've said your thoughts, we've all heard them, please don't repeat them. Mr. Baluken, please. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Yes, please, members of parliament, we're listening to Mr. Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0127par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. We find it unacceptable that the secret vote that just took place was voted by another acting minister, even though he had no authority over a minister who wasn't here. Already, the way the current Commission of Investigation has established both the way it works and the way it's handled this matter in the General Assembly has taken place in a way that is unrelenting to the public. Now, there is a situation about voting that is not in order, and in fact, in a sense, a violation of the Civil Code. Therefore, we see that your explanation here is insufficient. After the vote that the Minister used was cancelled, the results should have been evaluated and, according to him, a statement had to be made to the General Assembly. We, the People's Democratic Party, are both critical of your attitude and stressing that the Minister should apologize to the General Assembly representing the will of the nation. Also, there is one other thing: the opposition vote may not have achieved a single majority, but there have not been 276 votes needed for the ministers not to go to the Supreme Court. Therefore, we believe that the Commission's report has failed in both the public conscience and the general council's vote. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0065	Congressmans, I've made a sufficient statement on this issue, and the group's deputy presidents have also expressed their opinion. I thank them all separately. We'll continue the negotiations where we left off. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0129par0068	Mr. President, do you have the power of attorney for Mr. Ömer Çelik, Mr. Nurettin Canikli?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0130par0069	General power of attorney...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0070	We've discussed it, I've explained it, please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0129par0071	Did we argue, or did we not? Is there or isn't there, sir?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0131par0072	We didn't argue.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0073	I told you what happened.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0129par0074	Do you, Mr. President, do you?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0075	I'm not going to repeat this every time.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0129par0076	Is there or isn't there?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0132par0077	Mr. President, the power of attorney has no law enforcement authority. He needs to be able to withdraw money.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0081	Congressmans, the 2nd vote is related to 53 motions issued on former Interior Minister Muammar Guler. Now, I'm having these motions read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Minister of Interior Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Bagis and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, the Commission for Assembly Investigations Commission has decided in the vote that the former Minister of Interior Muammar Güler would not need to be transferred to the Supreme Court. Due to the findings of our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's report to the Supreme Court. Due to the rejection of the commission report and the former Minister's motion for Parliamentary Investigation, we demand the transfer of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 to the Supreme Court under Articles 204, 252, 255 and 285. Levent Gök Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donate and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar's Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report are requested to be transferred to the Supreme Court on grounds given by İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP Reza Turmen and Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgellu. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism Former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar's Parliamentary Investigation Commission has voted with a majority of votes that former Interior Minister Muammar Guler would not need a transfer to the Supreme Court. Because of the concrete findings we've received as a result of our investigation, we oppose the Commission's report and decision not to refer the former Interior Minister Muammar Guler to the Supreme Court. We demand that Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 be transferred to the Supreme Court in accordance with Articles 204, 252, 255, and 285, on the basis of the motion to dismiss the commission's report and to investigate the former minister. Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Bag and Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar is requested to be transferred to the Supreme Court on the grounds that the former Minister Muammar Güler. As a matter of fact, the report of the Coroner's Medical Report in the Commission's Report, showing that phone calls were real, and the concrete findings in the report of the "incompatible statements" of the experts of MASAK, which is the unreasonable increase of property, require the transfer of Muammar Güler to the Supreme Court. Congressmans, I'm going to read it now, since the texts of 48 different motions signed by one MP are the same...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0133par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0099	Yeah, let me finish a sentence, please, please. I'll have them read the names of the other motion holders after I've read the first motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0133par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0102	I'm turning on the mike. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0133par0104	Mr. President, I assume you'll be reading the motion under the signature of these 47 MPs, Mr. Gardenli.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0105	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0133par0106	As earlier, Mr. Muammar Guler's commission motion for investigation has included articles 204, 255, 285 and 252, but when we look at this motion, 255, 252, 285, 234, and additional 257. In that sense, this is part of the motion to open a new investigation, which should not be processed. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0108	Mr. Elitaş, we've made these corrections. We pulled the motion numbers back after we made these corrections. The numbers I read are the correct numbers I read after I've corrected them.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0133par0109	What we have is different.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0110	I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the MPs, the obstruction of the proceedings of the law, the violations of the parliamentary court's proceedings, as a result of the imposition of the parliamentary inquiry commission, the incidents of the number majority, the motions of the commissioners and members on the day of the commission's vote, have been replaced by pressure on the judicial arm of the court concerning the allegations of the former Minister of Interior Mardin, Muammer Güler, the committee's proceedings, and the pressure of members during the commission's vote on the day 5 January 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. Former Interior Minister Muammar Guler has been found to have provided non-violence concessions to Reza Sarraf (Sarraf) and others and obtained illegitimate interests in return. Here's the thing. When the report is examined by opposition sheriffs and file managers, Reza Sarraf gave special treatment for Turkish citizenship to those who were referred to by him; Turkish citizenship was pronounced $1 million per person, but $1.5m per person was expressed by the person in "tapes" at the time of the transfers to Turkish citizenship; he also told his son that Sarraf is a Turkish citizen and that two more people would be finished with his brother. Riza Sarraf has been having traffic problems and has given his vehicle the privilege of using the security lane at the request that he should arrive at a certain location soon, and also, after interviewing the current prime minister, he has appointed a security police officer, Riza Sarraf wrote a letter of recommendation to the Bank of Kün on business relations in China, saying "Sarraf will soon vouch for us half of the Cabinet," and in response to all of this: $300,000 on 25/04/2013, $30,000 on 6/05/2013, $400,000 on 24/05/2013, $5/06/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $200,000 on 19/07/2013, $ 6/08/2013, $32,000/2013, $120,000/12/2013, $2/2013, $12,000/12/2013,$6/12/2013. He's been working on the possibility that there will be no negative news about Reza Sarraf. Under his leadership, Peace Güler, Hikmet Tuner, Peace Kıranta and Free Özdemir were agreed to receive 1.5 million dollars in exchange for concessions to Reza Sarraf, some of which were given to his son's employee by Happani, a co-owner of Sarraf. During the ministry's mandate, a large amount of actions have been detected in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and their written and verbal defences are incontrovertible in this regard. During the ministry's mandate, its personal and first-degree relatives had a huge increase in their real estate and real estate, and their written and verbal defences were inconsistencies and inconsistencies. We've reached the conclusion. For reasons stated above, 255th, titled "The Trade of Numbers," 252nd, titled "The Fraud in Official Document," 285th, under the title of "Infrastruction of Secretness," 285th, former Interior Minister Muammar Güler. In accordance with its provisions, it is necessary to submit to the Supreme Court for the release of truth and for justice in an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. Adnan Şişik Ugly Ahmet Duran Bulut Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Ali Longırmak Scholar Light Atila Kaya Bahattin Sugar Bulent Belen Celal Adan Jamalettin Lightning D. Ali Torlak Edip Semih Yalçın Emin Çınar Emin Haluk Ayhan Engin Alan Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ismet Büğataman Kemalettin Yilmaz Koray Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Merkel Akşener Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Murat Basesgioğlu Mustafa Erdem Münir Kutluata Necati Özensoy Oktay Ozturk Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Rusar Demirel Sadir won't stop Sinan Okan Sumer Oral Tunca Tuskayay Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh Yusuf Halaçoğlu Yusuf Ziya Irbeç Zuhal Topcu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the MPs, the obstruction of the proceedings of the law, the violations of the parliamentary court's proceedings, as a result of the imposition of the parliamentary inquiry commission, the incidents of the number majority, the motions of the commissioners and members on the day of the commission's vote, have been replaced by pressure on the judicial arm of the court concerning the allegations of the former Minister of Interior Mardin, Muammer Güler, the committee's proceedings, and the pressure of members during the commission's vote on the day 5 January 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When the report on former Interior Minister Muammar Guler's crimes that allowed Riza Sarraf and others to obtain illegal privileges in exchange for which he had obtained illegitimate interests, opposition harms and file managers were examined; Riza Sarraf gave special treatment for Turkish citizenship to those who were referred to by him; Turkish citizenship was pronounced $1 million per person, but $1.5m per person was expressed by the person in "tapes" at transitions to Turkish citizenship; he was also informed by his son that his brother was a Turkish citizen, and in the next meeting, he told his son that two more people would be finished with his brother Sarraf. Riza Sarraf has been having traffic problems and has given his vehicle the privilege of using the security lane at the request that he should arrive at a certain location soon, and has appointed a protection police officer after interviewing the mentioned prime minister, About Reza Sarraf's trade relations in China, he wrote a reference letter to the Bank of Künlun, and soon after the transfer of this information to Sarraf, half of the Cabinet will vouch for us. In response to all of this, he said: US$200,000 on 25/04/2013, $35,000 on 6/05/2013, $2/05/2013, $5/06/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $120,000/07/2013. He's been working on the possibility that there will be no negative news about Reza Sarraf. Under his leadership, his son, Barış Güler, Hikmet Tuner, Peace Kıranta and Free Özdemir were agreed to receive 1.5 million dollars in exchange for concessions to Reza Sarraf, some of which were given to the employee of his son, Happani, one of Sarraf's co-owners, During the ministry's mandate, a large amount of actions have been detected in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and their written and verbal defences are incontrovertible in this regard. During the ministry's mandate, its personal and first-degree relatives had a huge increase in their real estate and real estate, and their written and verbal defences were inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, the High Court must be issued in accordance with Article 252 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 of Interior Minister Muammar Güler, under the Article "Rüsvet" of the Turkish Penal Code, and for the release of justice in an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the MPs, the obstruction of the proceedings of the law, the violations of the parliamentary court's proceedings, as a result of the imposition of the parliamentary inquiry commission, the incidents of the number majority, the motions of the commissioners and members on the day of the commission's vote, have been replaced by pressure on the judicial arm of the court concerning the allegations of the former Minister of Interior Mardin, Muammer Güler, the committee's proceedings, and the pressure of members during the commission's vote on the day 5 January 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has agreed to the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its way to the judiciary, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When the report on former Interior Minister Muammar Guler's crimes that allowed Riza Sarraf and others to obtain illegal privileges in exchange for which he had obtained illegitimate interests, opposition harms and file managers were examined; Riza Sarraf gave special treatment for Turkish citizenship to those who were referred to by him; Turkish citizenship was pronounced $1 million per person, but $1.5m per person was expressed by the person in "tapes" at transitions to Turkish citizenship; he was also informed by his son that his brother was a Turkish citizen, and in the next meeting, he told his son that two more people would be finished with his brother Sarraf. Riza Sarraf has been having traffic problems and has given his vehicle the privilege of using the security lane at the request that he should arrive at a certain location soon, and has appointed a protection police officer after interviewing the mentioned prime minister, Riza Sarraf wrote a letter of recommendation to "Kunlun Bank" about his trade relations in China, saying "Sarraf will soon vouch for us half the Cabinet," and in response to all of this: $300,000 on 25/04/2013, $30,000 on 6/05/2013, $400,000 on 24/05/2013, $50,000 on 5/06/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $35,000 on 19/07/2013, $200,000, 6/08/08/13, $16,000 on the day of 6/05/2013, $2/2013, $2/2013, $2/2013. He's been working on the possibility that there will be no negative news about Reza Sarraf. Under his leadership, his son, Barış Güler, Hikmet Tuner, Peace Kıranta and Free Özdemir were agreed to receive 1.5 million dollars in exchange for concessions to Reza Sarraf, some of which were given to the employee of his son, Happani, one of Sarraf's co-owners, During the ministry's mandate, a large amount of actions have been detected in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and their written and verbal defences are incontrovertible in this regard. During the ministry's mandate, its personal and first-degree relatives had a huge increase in their real estate and real estate, and their written and verbal defences were inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, the High Court of Justice is required for the release of the truth and an independent and impartial trial under Article 255, under the Article 5237 of Turkish Penal Code, former Interior Minister Muammar Güler. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the MPs, the obstruction of the proceedings of the law, the violations of the proceedings of the parliamentary inquiry commission, the incidents that have taken place as a result of the imposition of the parliamentary majority in the process of the parliamentary inquiry, the pressure of the commissioner and members of the committee on the day of the commission vote has been put on the judicial arm of the court concerning the allegations against Muammer Güler, the arrest of the court, and the pressure of the members of the commission during the extradition, the pressure of the law scandals under pressure of the state, "the rule of law" and the corruption of the parliamentary inquiry, and the corruption of the parliamentary investigation has been replaced on the day of corruption, and it has not been forgotten on January 5, 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. The report on former Interior Minister Muammar Guler's illegal concessions to Reza Sarraf, and others, in return for which he obtained illegitimate interests, the report on his crimes, opposition harms and file managers, and the fact that Reza Sarraf had been privileged to those who had been referred to as referenced by Riza Sarraf to Turkish citizenship, which had been pronounced $1 million per person in Turkish citizenship, but had been expressed by the individual in the talks by his son Sarraf Riza Sarraf has been having traffic problems and has given his vehicle the privilege of using the security lane at the request that he should arrive at a certain location soon, and has appointed a protection police officer after interviewing the mentioned prime minister, About Reza Sarraf's trade relations in China, he wrote a reference letter to the Bank of Künlun, and soon after the transfer of this information to Sarraf, half of the Cabinet will vouch for us. In response to all of this, he said: US$200,000 on 25/04/2013, $30,000 on 6/05/2013, $2/05/2013, $5/06/2013, $30,000 on 2/07/2013, $35,000 on 2/07/2013, $35,000 on 19/07/2013. He's been working on the possibility that there will be no negative news about Reza Sarraf. Under his leadership, his son, Barış Güler, Hikmet Tuner, Peace Kıranta and Free Özdemir were agreed to receive 1.5 million dollars in exchange for concessions to Reza Sarraf, some of which were given to the employee of his son, Happani, one of Sarraf's co-owners, During the ministry's mandate, a large amount of actions have been detected in individual and first-degree bank accounts (defense and Turkish lira) and their written and verbal defences are inconsistencies and inconsistencies are inconsistencies. During the ministry's mandate, its personal and first-degree relatives had a huge increase in their real estate and real estate, and their written and verbal defences were inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, the release of truth and an independent and impartial trial of justice must be applied to the Supreme Court in accordance with Article 204, under Article 5237 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 of Interior Minister Muammar Güler. I demand and demand the necessary. S. Nevzat Don't Fear Congressmans, since the motions for Mr. Muammar Guler, the former Home Secretary of the Interior, are of the same nature, I will proceed together and submit them to your votes. In the third article of Article 100 of the Constitution, the decision to transfer to the Supreme Court is made by the secret vote of the single majority of its integer. The decision to transfer it to the Supreme Court is made by the only majority of its integers. That's why we're going to hold the vote in the form of a secret vote, and we're going to call 276 votes for the motion to be passed. The transfer to the Supreme Court will not be accepted if the vote of the secret vote is below 276%, as long as the meeting is enough. I'd like to inform you on how the secret vote will be held. The clerk member of the commission and the cabinet members in the ranks of the Commission and the government will be given three round stamps, including Adana, Istanbul, and the clerk from the government, to Zonguldak, including Zonguldak, to mark his name in the name book. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. As you know, the white one of these stamps means the red one, the red one, and the green one means the gravitational vote. After receiving three round stamps and marking your name in the name book, the member will put the stamp in the envelope and throw the other two stamps in the box. The voting member will place the ballot stamp in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. Members of parliament, there will be no stamps or envelopes for the MP whose name has not been read in the vote. I'd like to ask the lawmakers not to form a condensation in front of the voting booths. Congressmans, I have the power of attorney of the ministers who will vote by proxy. They're just doing a check, and I'll read it later. I'm starting the vote in the same order as the previous vote. Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Members of parliament, the ministers who will vote by proxy, please do not vote for the power of attorney until I have read the list. [[Votings continued.]] Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, Minister of Health Mehmet Müezzinoglu, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Ik, Minister of Finance Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture, Minister of the European Union Nihat Zebekci, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ömer Çelik, Minister of Culture and Commerce Nurettinilli, Minister of Energy, Minister of Energy, Minister of Energy, Minister of Energy and Minister of Energy, and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Security, will replace Minister of Security and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Security and Security and Minister of Education and Security and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Security and Security and Security and Minister of Education and Security and Security and Minister of Education will be replaced and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education. Mr. Secretary of State, please make a sign of who they're using it for on the table. [[Votings continued.]] Congressmans, Mr. Taner Yıldız has arrived, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz is not voting for him. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? Dear Private, please... Inside, please, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0134par0231	Is that how you vote in this secret vote, Mr. President, when there's a serious issue?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0232	It's a warning.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0134par0233	You interfered and he didn't do what he had to do.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0234	It was a long time before that, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0134par0235	We know that Mr. Recep will be exonerated, so don't be so comfortable.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0236	The vote is over. Let's raise the ballots, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0135par0239	Mr. Haydar, we'll take you like this.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0136par0240	Mr. President, could you send out some friends who aren't on the Court?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0241	They're not interfering, Mr. Elitaş, they're just watching.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0136par0242	Mr. President, it doesn't matter to interfere, there'll be no one there but the Court clerks and the administration chiefs.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0137par0243	Mr. Elitaş, we're kind of nervous today. Something must be wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0245	Congressmans, I'm reporting a secret vote on the motions for the transfer to the Supreme Court regarding former Interior Minister Muammar Guler: ▪ Number of votes used: 513 Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit According to this result, the motion was not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0138par0256	Report denied. The commissioner and his members must resign. The commission report is not accepted either, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0257	Thus the report of the Investigative Commission has been accepted, so it has been decided that former Interior Minister Muammar Guler will not be transferred to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0138par0258	Unacceptable.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0128par0260	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0261	Sir, I object to your final statement. Now, you've both expressed after the vote on Mr. Zafer Çalayan, and you've expressed after the vote on Mr. Muammar Guler. After the results of the vote, you said: "The investigation commission report has been accepted." No, the chief said that. I'll explain it now, there's an explanation for Mr. Ahmet Aydın. Now, Article 112 of our Interior Charter: ▪ The Commission's reports to the Supreme Court have been rejected, but it is possible with the acceptance of a motion for the transfer to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0140par0265	Right. Motion denied.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0266	The motions for transfer to the Supreme Court have not been accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0141par0267	The Commission report has been accepted since it was not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0268	No, the Commission report is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0141par0269	It says there, you've just read it, you've read it, you've read it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0142par0270	Motion denied.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0271	However, if these motions had been accepted, the Commission's report would have been rejected. The commission's report...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0141par0272	There, it's accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0142par0273	The commission report is not being voted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0274	Politically, the result is that the Commission's report has been accepted because there are 276 votes, there are 276 votes for rejection.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0142par0275	The motion is being voted, Mr. Hamzacebi, the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0276	Therefore, the commission report you have done has been accepted. The statement is in violation of Article 112 of the Interior Charter, which is clearly a violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0143par0277	It's a manipulation.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0139par0278	I demand that you correct that statement, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0144par0279	He can fix it, I don't mind.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0145par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0146par0281	Wait a minute... here's what I'm gonna say. Mr. Hamzacebi, after I said the numerical outcome of the vote, the motion was not accepted according to this conclusion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0147par0283	Okay, there's no hesitation in that.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0146par0284	Then I made his statement. The important thing here is whether or not the motion is accepted, because we're voting on the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0147par0285	Okay.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0148par0286	How would you state a will regarding the admission of the report?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0147par0287	Mr. President, sir, one more sentence.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0149par0288	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0150par0289	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0149par0290	In 2002, I read the final paragraph of the Turkish Grand National Assembly report: the results of the vote on Minister of Public Assembly and the Minister of Housing, Mr. Koray Aydın: Accepted 177, reject 209, abstention 11, invalid 1, blank 1. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thus, the motions have been rejected, since the number of votes in the Constitution has not found the only majority of the Parliament, according to the 100th Article of the Constitution, and according to the Civil Code. It is not acceptable for the concerned to go to the Supreme Court, sir. The Deputy Speaker of Parliament says so.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0151par0293	Mr. President, sir...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0152par0294	Sir, the explanation is wrong. And the explanation at the time, whatever it is, it's wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0149par0295	From the Clave reports... That's how all the reports are.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0152par0296	Therefore, we are not voting on the admission of the Investigation Commission report. Besides, if there was a statement of will to accept the Commission's report, 276 games would have to come out here. Therefore, the absence of 276 games reveals that this report was actually rejected by the Parliament; that is clear, that it is.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0153par0297	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0149par0298	Mr. President, I'm reading another example.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0154par0299	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0149par0300	Mr. President, I'm reading another example.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0155par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0154par0302	Who am I going to promise now, just a minute. Mr. Vural, I promised. Mr. Hamzacebi has raised his hand before. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0306	Mr. President, I'm going to give you an example: let's just say that if there were not any motion for a transfer to the Supreme Court regarding the four former ministers, we would still be here to discuss this report, and we would have just discussed it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0157par0307	Right.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0308	You weren't going to vote whether the report was accepted or rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0157par0309	Right.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0310	Yeah. Even so, the commission report has been accepted from here. How do you draw the result?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0157par0311	Mr. President, shall I read another example?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0312	The Article of the Civil Code does not include an regulation on the adoption of the Commission report, which does not exist. There is an arrangement on how the commission report will be considered rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0157par0313	Mr. President, would you allow me to read another example?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0314	Politically, if I may comment, the Commission's report has been approved since the motions to the Supreme Court were not rejected by 276 votes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0158par0315	The commission report was not voted, the motions were voted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0156par0316	It's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0159par0317	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0160par0319	Mr. President, I'd like to read another example. The president explains the result: former MPs, former Prime Minister Ahmet Mesut Yilmaz. As a result of an open vote on the proposal, 333 members participated in the vote, 109 admissions, 219 rejections, 5 abstentions. According to this conclusion, the motion was not accepted. The report of the Commission of Investigation has been accepted, so it has been decided that the transfer of former Prime Minister Ahmet Mesut Yılmaz to the Supreme Court is not a place. Article 112 is already clear and clear.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0159par0320	Congressmans, I've heard enough, I've heard all your demands. I would like to point out that this is a text that a few people read in front of me sit down together and say, "Come on, let's write it. It's not a text that they say. We didn't make this up from our own mind world.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0161par0322	Good for those who vote. Good for those who vote.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0159par0323	As a matter of fact, the paragraph read by Mr. Elitaş is the same as the paragraph I read. Anyway, that's the way it is written around here. Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0162par0324	Mr. President, the Civil Code 112 is already open.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0163par0325	Mr. President, the old apps are wrong, sir, and the old apps are against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0159par0326	Whatever the old apps are, they're written here one-on-one, and we're not creating anything new. You, Mr. Hamzacebi, are a man of great importance to the rules of the House. We did the same thing here, we did the same thing.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0164par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0159par0328	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0164par0329	This report has been rejected because it has not found the right to vote. This report has also been rejected because it has not found the right to vote.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0165par0330	My dear, are we here to decide according to the comments of Mr. Oktay Vural?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0164par0331	Therefore, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş also admitted that he had been rejected, that the report had been rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0332	Okay, guys, point taken. I reported the vote. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0164par0333	Yes, he reported it with his own mouth. This report is denied.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0334	I reported the vote, and there's no way I can change that.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0167par0335	Commission report accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0336	The motion has been rejected, the Commission report has been accepted, a conclusion has been reached in line with the Commission report. Let's not play with words here, please. We all know about the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0337	Mr. President, sir, if you don't change your attitude, sir, I'm going to open a legal debate.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0338	How can this be a discussion of procedure, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0339	Sir, it is clear that your practice clearly violates Article 112 of the Civil Code. The fact that such practices have been made so far does not mean that the practice is right, nor does it mean that old practices are wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0340	We just voted the same way, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0341	Sir, that vote of yours... So, in fact, as a result of that vote, the report you used was accepted. The sentence is wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0342	Now, there's no way I'm going to start a procedure discussion here, because, as I just said, these texts we have are written according to regulations, and Mr. Elitaş has read it. It's an expression, meaning that the result of this vote is in accordance with the Commission's report. I mean, it doesn't change when you use that word instead of that word, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0343	Sir, no, it's changing a lot.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0344	Because I said it wasn't accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0345	Sir, you'll leave it there. The Supreme Court...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0166par0346	Okay, well, we can't figure this out. I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0168par0348	Against...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0169par0349	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0170par0350	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0171par0351	Against...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0172par0352	Against...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0173par0353	Wait a minute... on behalf of each party, I promise one person. I assume you'll be in favor?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0172par0355	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0173par0356	You?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0174par0357	Against you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0173par0358	You?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0175par0359	Against me, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0173par0360	Mr. Elitaş is in favor. Yes, according to my position, Mr. Idris Bauken will speak in favor. Here you go. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0176par0366	Mr. President, dear MPs, of course, to take the stand, since both the Republican People's Party and the Nationalist Movement Party have been quoted in favor of me, I'd like to say I'm against your position. What Mr. Group Vice President just stated is true. With this polling table, the report of the Commission of Investigation has been accepted. There can be no such results, since the number of 276 necessary for the majority has not been reached. Besides, what we're voting for are the motions made by political party groups. You say, "Let's not get hung up on puns." But we think it's extremely important if you use such a sentence of our own free will. Therefore, you can only state to the General Assembly that the motion you voted for as the Presidential Court was accepted or rejected. The picture that appears here is clear that the public has expressed to the conscience, public conscience, that an unexplained painting cannot be made clear in the General Assembly. Thus, within the AK PARTI Group, you ignore the will of fellow trustees who can't digest the Investigative Commission's report, so they vote against it. We don't think that attitude is right. We've been particularly warning from the beginning, there's been a lot of public debate throughout the entire work process of this Commission, the public conscience has not been relieved. In particular, I want to go to the Supreme Court to be cleared of this bench. We have repeatedly expressed how important the call was. Look, it turns out how right that statement is. At the moment, the situation of a large group of lawmakers who have not been able to digest this painting, which has also appeared within the AK PARTY Group. So we still expect that after the ministers come and get this painting -- I mean, after they don't get a majority -- we want to go to the Supreme Court, not to be cleared of their word games -- we trust the documents we have at the Supreme Court, and with those documents we will be cleared of our chests. They need to make a statement of will. As the opposition party, we say that there is no such thing, that there is no such thing as a clean-up situation in the Supreme Court. The public conscience, the public conscience, the current numerical table in the General Assembly, that's what I'm saying. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hereby declare your attitude against me. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0177par0373	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak against my attitude. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0178par0376	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, they said no to this motion, this second motion, 258 MPs. So the number of members of your party group is 312, why did 258 say no, and the others are not in it, so why couldn't you find 276? Because they, too, have a conscience that they know that they will not be justified by the result of this no, and their conscience is not clear. Now, first of all, no matter what you say, you've fallen from 264 to 258, so you can't put that aside. Just as 276 is required for the adoption of the motion and, in the same way, 276 is required for the adoption of this Commission report, the Commission's report would require 276 to be approved. Why? Consider: What would you say if 258 had come out of 241?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0179par0378	The report is still accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0178par0379	Again, the report was rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0180par0380	The report was accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0178par0381	No, that's what you were gonna say.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0181par0382	No, no...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0180par0383	You're bringing new customs to the old village.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0178par0384	Therefore, that is not the case. On the other hand, look, you're voting as a proxy, you're saying secret voting, where's the name of voting as a proxy in the secret vote? It's not written anywhere. You're getting someone else to use it, so here's the power of attorney, here's the minister's power of attorney. Who'd he tell? Let Nurettin Canikli drive. He said, he gave him power of attorney. Why didn't he use it? Why didn't you use it? So, what does the power of attorney mean then, and why are you giving them to me? On the other hand, the four ministers are not able to be cleared on this occasion, and in the same way, 4+9+245 lawmakers are guilty of this corruption, taking responsibility for it. You'll see the consequences tomorrow, you're not cleared in public. You haven't been exonerated, you haven't been publicly exonerated. So, no matter what you do, the best way to do it is if you're sure of yourself, you're telling everyone that there is no such evidence. Send them to the Supreme Court without fear, and save those people and those four ministers from the plague. So when they have gone forth, let them go forth in doubt, and let them go forth in safety. You're actually condemning them on their behalf. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0182par0389	Why didn't you do it in 2001?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0183par0390	Thank you. In favor of my attitude, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş will speak. Here you go, three minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0184par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I would like to point out that there is no room in the 63rd Article of the Civil Code for this discussion, because the 63rd Amendment is clear and clear: whether there is room for discussion. The president has made a parallel statement regarding the results of the investigation commission reports from 1999 in front of me, and there is no problem there. Since it does not exist, it is completely wrong for the Civil Code to open up a legal debate on Article 63 of the Law. Look, Mr. Halaçoglu has just said that the MPs will vote in secret and will do so. This Constitution was changed in 2001. All the motions for the investigation commission before 2001 were held by open ballots, a secret vote was held in 2001. At the end of the first secret vote: Friends of the President, even though we warn you, I beg you, let the votes be used in secret, so let us observe the secrecy. If you want to show someone something, it's an act that doesn't fit the parliamentary level. Let everyone go on their conscience and use the game inside. Suleiman Turan Ugly (Hatay) What's it to you, what's it to you? So, dear lawmakers, this is the secret vote of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which violated the secret vote of the Constitution for the first time in parliament, even though it took it in the 21st Amendment Parliament during the 57th term, in spite of its own votes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0185par0400	It's a bad situation.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0184par0401	Look, dear lawmakers, I'm reading you the results.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0185par0402	Then you're in violation.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0184par0403	For example, Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi has just stated that the 5th joke of the Article 112 of the Civil Code of Law has been rejected by the commission's reports not to be referred to the Supreme Court, but by the adoption of a motion on which sentence the transfer will be based on the transfer of the Supreme Court. According to this verdict, no motion has been made for a transfer to the Supreme Court. With that respect, the Commission report is adopted, sir. That's all the samples. So, now that all the examples are like this, I think it's probably not meaningful to get up and commit a new Civil Code by showing up and saying that the practices of the Civil Law were wrong, all the practices, all the actions were wrong. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0186par0406	Thank you. Against Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0187par0410	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The statement of Article 112 of the Interior Charter, titled the conclusion of the investigation, states: "The rejection of the Commission's reports to not be referred to the Supreme Court is only possible with the adoption of a motion for the transfer to the Supreme Court. The motions for the transfer of the Supreme Court to the High Court were not accepted in the vote regarding the two former Ministers. Therefore, the General Assembly has demonstrated a will not to be transferred to the Supreme Court, there is no doubt about it. The problem is that the results of this vote were not accepted when Mr. President declared it. After he had said it, the MEClis Investigation Commission Report was accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0188par0412	That's what he said, he'll get out of here.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0187par0413	No, he's not getting out of here. It's just that the motion to transfer to the Supreme Court has not been accepted. If we have to interpret the General Assembly's will, the General Assembly's will is to reject the Commission for Parliamentary Investigations Report, because the vote for rejection was not written in the Interior Charter, but did not find the only majority, the 276. I'd like to give you an example: Let's say there's no motion for transfer to the Supreme Court, and we'll see the Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report again here -- it's an internal charter order -- but the Parliamentary Investigation Commission Report will not be put to the vote because there is no demand for a transfer to the Supreme Court; it will only be discussed and will remain.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0188par0415	I mean, it'll be accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0187par0416	A report that has not been submitted to the vote in such a case has been accepted or rejected, and the report that has not been carried out in the case we are living this evening has been accepted. It is contrary to the Civil Code. Mr. President, if he insists on his position, if he doesn't change his attitude, he'll be in violation of the Actual Civil Code. The Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0188par0418	Mr. President, it's not agreed, but it's not rejected.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0187par0419	Look, no, the motions for transfer to the Supreme Court have been rejected. This is what the President should announce. There is no will for the Parliamentary Investigation Commission report to be adopted by the General Assembly. Mr. President reads the motions before each vote, reads the contents, and then votes after that. It's not the report, folks. The attitude is wrong. Just because the practices have been so far doesn't mean the position of the President is correct. I rephrase the President's need to change his attitude, and respect all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0423	Thank you. According to Article 112, the Commission's report does not in any way be referred or transferred to the Supreme Court with the acceptance or rejection of a motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0187par0425	It doesn't say... not to be loved.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0426	Please... See what it says, 112/5: the Commission's report not to transfer to the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0190par0428	Mr. President, I'm not going to...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0429	What does it end with? With the consent of the motion. So a commission's report can be carried out here in the General Assembly by the acceptance or rejection of a motion. We don't accept the motion here.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0191par0430	There's no law, sir, there's rejection, there's no law.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0431	So, in line with the statement here, we've decided to report. Look, here's...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0192par0433	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0434	Wait a minute... In 112/5, whether the commission's report is accepted or not is related to the acceptance or rejection of a motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0436	No, sir, we have to accept...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0437	Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0438	Look, there's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0439	I won't change my attitude.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0440	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0441	Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0442	Mr. President, you're reading it wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0194par0443	There's nothing for him to agree to, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0444	I read it perfectly.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0445	There is no such thing as "not acceptable" or "not acceptable." Read it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0194par0446	No, no...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0447	Look, what did I say? A commission report...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0448	Let's read...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0449	I didn't read this from here.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0450	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0451	Look, Mr. Vural, the rejection or acceptance of a commission report...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0195par0452	No, no...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0453	There is no law, sir!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0454	Or...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0455	There is no such thing!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0456	Brother, two transactions...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0457	Read the Civil Code!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0458	My friend, the two transactions are either accepted or rejected by the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0459	Mr. President, can you read the Civil Code?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0460	I'm reading.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0461	Read it!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0462	That's basically what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0463	Read it!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0464	And I'm not changing my attitude. For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0465	Is your text different? He says his reports have been rejected...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0466	Now, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0467	The rejection of his reports is.......... he says.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0468	Mr. Vural, if I may...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0469	There's no vote on his acceptance.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0470	What are we talking about here? The commission's report.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0471	No, sir...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0472	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0473	We're discussing the motion.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0474	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0475	The commission report is not being voted.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0476	Oh, wait a minute... The vote or rejection of our motion will result in either the Commission's report or otherwise. How else am I supposed to explain this? Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0478	Mr. President, look, you don't read the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0479	Please... I read the Civil Code very well.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0481	You're reading it wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0482	I'm reading it right. That's what you might call it.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0193par0483	What are you reading? You can't read.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0196par0484	Piece of cake?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0485	Thank you. Moving on.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0197par0487	It says "reddi" (reddi).
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0488	Look, I'm saying rejection or acceptance, I don't think you're hearing me!
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0197par0489	There's no such thing as acceptance of the report, there's a vote on rejection.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0490	Look, I don't read to you line by line. I'm saying that by moving from this Charter...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0197par0491	Read it line by line, read it letter by letter, read it word by word.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0492	Please, okay, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0197par0493	You can't even read the Civil Code stuff.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit05spe0189par0497	Members of parliament, the third vote concerns 55 motions on the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Donated. Now I'm going to have these motions read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donate and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar's Commission on Parliamentary Investigations has decided in the vote that the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Bagis, should not be transferred to the Supreme Court. Due to the findings of our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's report to the Supreme Court. Due to the rejection of the commission report and the former Minister's motion for parliamentary investigation, we demand the transfer of Turkish Penal Code 5237 to the Supreme Court under Articles 252 and 255. Levent Gök Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Former Minister of Economics Mehmet Zafer Çağlar, former Minister of Interior Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donar and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Parliamentary Assembly of İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP Riza Turmen and Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgel are requested to be transferred to the Supreme Court on grounds of the Council. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism Former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar's Commission on Assembly Investigations has voted with a majority of votes that the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Bagbi, did not need to be transferred to the Supreme Court. Due to the concrete findings we have received from our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's decision and report and decision not to transfer the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Bagis. We demand that Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 be transferred to the Supreme Court on the basis of Articles 252, 255, on the grounds of its rejection of the commission report and its action on the parliamentary investigation motion adopted on the former minister. Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar, the Commission's Commission on Assembly Investigations Report on the 681 rows has been requested to be referred to the Supreme Court in accordance with the issues in which former Minister Egemen Bagis carried out actions against the alleged charges. As a matter of fact, the report of the Coroner's Report on the Commission's Medical Report, stating that phone calls were real, and the concrete findings of the MASAK experts' "incompatibility of their transaction statements" -- which is inadmissible property increase report -- are also mandatory for the transfer of the Supreme Court of the Egemen Donor. Congressmans, since the text of 49 different motions that I'm about to read is the same, I'm going to have them read the names of the owners of the other motions after 15 minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit06spe0189par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Two Supreme Court motions on the former European Union Minister Egemen Donate had been read. Now I'm going to have the other three motions read. Congressmans, since the texts of forty-nine different motions signed by one of the MPs that I'm going to read now are the same, I'm going to have them read the names of the owners of the other motions after I have them read the first motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of proceedings have been blocked, not by the review of the proceedings of MPs, but by the impositions of the parliamentary majority in the process of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, as a result of the imposition of the numberary majority in the process of the parliamentary inquiry Commission, as a result of the raids launched on the Council of Ministers and members on the day of the Commission on the day of the Commission. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. The former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Bagis, a former minister of the European Union, has been shown to provide him with financial benefits and gains in exchange for some inappropriate work he has done. Here's the thing. When the report is examined by opposition sheriffs and file managers, 1) In the technical follow-up, I thank you very much for the fact that Reza Sarraf had Abdullah Happani put it in the shoebox, dress and shirt box, and chocolate cans, and then announced where it was going, and then said, "Thank you so much for this. In response to the statement "You embarrassed me," Sarraf said, "What do you mean, Mr. Minister?" 2) During phone calls with Reza Sarraf, he was paid $500,000 three times for the work ahead, 3) Riza Sarraf is an intermediary on visas for relatives of his family and is mediating the rental process of a hotel with a tourist license, 4) Reza Sarraf has been conducting investigations into the institutions and institutions related to Sarraf. 5) He blocked the negative news of Reza Sarraf. 6) During the ministry's mandate, there was a large amount of movement in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. 7) During the ministry's mandate, there have been written and verbal inconsistencies in their written and verbal defences, with a significant increase in their personal and first-degree relatives in real estate and real estate. We've reached the conclusion. For reasons revealed above, 255, the Turkish Penal Code titled "National Trade," is 252, for the interests and illegal deeds provided by former European Minister Istanbul MP Egemen Bagis. In accordance with its provisions, it is necessary to submit to the Supreme Court for the release of truth and for justice in an independent and impartial trial. We demand and demand what we need. The signatures of other proposals are: Adnan Şişik Ugly Ahmet Duran Bulut Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Ali Longırmak Scholar Light Atila Kaya Bahattin Sugar Bulent Belen Celal Adan Jamalettin Lightning D. Ali Torlak Edip Semih Yalçın Emin Çınar Emin Haluk Ayhan Engin Alan Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ismet Büğataman Kemalettin Yilmaz Koray Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Merkel Akşener Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Murat Basesgioğlu Mustafa Erdem Münir Kutluata Necati Özensoy Oktay Ozturk Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Rusar Demirel Sadir won't stop Sinan Okan Sumer Oral Tunca Tuskayay Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh Yusuf Halaçoğlu Yusuf Ziya Irbeç Zuhal Topcu Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yılmaz Mehmet Günal Now I'm going to read the other two motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the process that started on corruption and bribery on 17-25 December 2013, the former Minister of the European Union, İstanbul MP Egemen Bagis, delaying the indictment over allegations against the judicial arm, interference in the judiciary, pressure of the members during the extradition of the proceedings, obstruction of the legal scandals, "the rule of law" of law enforcement, "the rule of law" and "stainment" of the parliamentary majority in the process of the parliamentary inquiry Commission, has taken place on the day of the Commission's vote on the day of corruption, and has taken place in the place of corruption on the day of corruption, not on 5 January 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When the report on the crimes of former European Minister of the Union, Egemen Bagis, who has provided him with financial benefits and gains in exchange for some inappropriate work he has done, is examined by opposition witnesses and file managers; 1) In the technical follow-up, I thank you very much for the fact that Reza Sarraf had Abdullah Happani put it in the shoebox, dress and shirt box, and chocolate cans, and then announced where it was going, and then said, "Thank you so much for this. In response to the statement "You embarrassed me," Sarraf said, "What do you mean, Mr. Minister?" 2) During phone calls with Reza Sarraf, he was paid $500,000 three times for the work ahead, 3) Riza Sarraf is an intermediary on visas for relatives of his family and is mediating the rental process of a hotel with a tourist license, 4) Reza Sarraf has been conducting investigations into the institutions and institutions related to Sarraf. 5) He blocked the negative news of Reza Sarraf. 6) During the ministry's mandate, there was a large amount of movement in the bank accounts of its individual and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. 7) During the ministry's mandate, there have been written and verbal inconsistencies in their written and verbal defences, with a significant increase in their personal and first-degree relatives in real estate and real estate. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, the Turkish Penal Code titled "Rüsvet" is 252, for the interests provided by former European Minister Istanbul MP Egemen Bagis and for his illegal deeds. In accordance with the clause, it is necessary to submit to the Supreme Court for the release of truth and for justice in an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the process that started on corruption and bribery on 17-25 December 2013, the former Minister of the European Union, İstanbul MP Egemen Bagis, delaying the indictment over allegations against the judicial arm, interference in the judiciary, pressure of the members during the extradition of the proceedings, obstruction of the legal scandals, "the rule of law" of law enforcement, "the rule of law" and "stainment" of the parliamentary majority in the process of the parliamentary inquiry Commission, has taken place on the day of the Commission's vote on the day of corruption, and has taken place in the place of corruption on the day of corruption, not on 5 January 2014. The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. When the report on the crimes of former European Minister of the Union, Egemen Bagis, who has provided him with financial benefits and gains in exchange for some inappropriate work he has done, is examined by opposition witnesses and file managers; 1) In the technical follow-up, I thank you very much for the fact that Reza Sarraf had Abdullah Happani put it in the shoebox, dress and shirt box, and chocolate cans, and then announced where it was going, and then said, "Thank you so much for this. In response to the statement "You embarrassed me," Sarraf said, "What do you mean, Mr. Minister?" 2) During phone calls with Reza Sarraf, he was paid $500,000 three times for the work ahead, 3) Riza Sarraf is an intermediary on visas for relatives of his family and is mediating the rental process of a hotel with a tourist license, 4) Reza Sarraf has been conducting investigations into the institutions and institutions related to Sarraf. 5) He blocked the negative news of Reza Sarraf. 6) During the ministry's mandate, the individual and first-degree relatives had a large amount of action in their bank accounts (device, Turkish lira) and their written and verbal defences were inconsistencies and inconsistencies. 7) During the ministry's mandate, there have been written and verbal inconsistencies in their written and verbal defences, with a significant increase in their personal and first-degree relatives in real estate and real estate. They've been identified. Because of the interests and illegal acts provided by former European Minister Egemen Bagis, the former minister of the European Union, 255, the Turkish Penal Code titled "National Trade." In accordance with the clause, it is necessary to submit to the Supreme Court for the release of truth and for justice in an independent and impartial trial. I demand and demand the necessary. S. Nevzat Don't Fear Congressmans, since the proposals for the former Minister of the European Union for Egemen Donates are the same, I will process them together and submit them to your votes. In the third article of Article 100 of the Constitution, the decision to transfer to the Supreme Court is made by the secret vote of the single majority of its integer. The decision to transfer it to the Supreme Court is made by the only majority of its integers. Therefore, we're going to hold the vote as a secret vote, and we're going to call 276 votes for the motion to be approved. The transfer to the Supreme Court will not be accepted if the vote of the secret vote is below 276%, as long as the meeting is enough. I'd like to inform you on how the secret vote will be held: The clerk from the members of the Commission and the government at the time of the Commission, from Adana to İstanbul, including Istanbul, and the clerk from the government to Zonguldak, will give the MP whose name is read, including Zonguldak, one of which is white, one of which is green, and one of which is red, three round stamps and sealed to the letter of the letter given to him. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. The white of these stamps, as it is known, is the same as the red one, and the green one is the same as the gravitational vote. After receiving three round stamps and marking your name in the name book, the member will put the stamp in the envelope and throw the other two stamps in the box. On the contrary, the letter containing the voting stamp will be placed in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. I'd like to ask the lawmakers not to form a condensation in front of the voting booths. Before starting the vote, I read the list of the ministers who voted as acting ministers: Deputy Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçin Akdoğan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, Minister of Health Mehmet Müezzinoglu, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Fikri Işim, Finance Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Animalism, will replace Minister of the European Union, Minister of Economy Nihat Zeybekci, Culture and Tourism Ömer Çelik, Minister of Customs and Trade Nurettin Cantin, Minister of Culture and Commerce, and Minister of Culture and Commerce Nurettin Canik Canik, Minister of Education, and Minister of Youth and Minister of Youth and Minister of Youth and Minister of Youth and Education and Education will replace him as Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Education. I'd like to ask the secretary's ruler to mark which minister voted in his place. We will now begin the vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Let's raise the ballots, please. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, I read the conclusion of the secret vote of motions for the transfer to the Supreme Court regarding the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Donate: Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit According to this result, the motion was not accepted. Thus the report of the Investigation Commission has been accepted, so it has been decided that the former Minister of the European Union, Egemen Bagis, should not be transferred to the Supreme Court. Congressmans, since the ballots are on the ground right now, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from their recovery.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0189par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the 4th vote is related to 53 motions issued on former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Former Minister of Economy Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Minister of Interior Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donate and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar's Commission on Parliamentary Investigations has decided that the vote did not require the transfer of former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar to the Supreme Court. Due to the findings of our investigation, we are opposed to the Commission's report to the Supreme Court. Due to the rejection of the commission report and the former Minister's motion for parliamentary investigation, we demand that TCK number 5237 be transferred to the Supreme Court under Article 255, 257. Levent Gök Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Former Minister of Economics Mehmet Zafer Çağlar, former Minister of Interior Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donar and Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Parliamentary Assembly of İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP Riza Turmen and Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgel are requested to be transferred to the Supreme Court on grounds of the Council. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammer Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism Former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar's Commission on Assembly Investigations has voted with a majority of votes that former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar does not need to be transferred to the Supreme Court. We oppose the Commission's decision and the decision not to refer former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar to the Supreme Court because of the concrete findings we have received as a result of our investigation. We demand that Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 be transferred to the Supreme Court under Article 257, due to the motion to dismiss the commission's report and to the parliamentary investigation motion adopted on the former minister. Former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Donor and Environment and Urbanism former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar, has been requested to be referred to the Supreme Court in accordance with the issues on which former Minister Erdogan Bayraktar has been charged. As a matter of fact, the report of the Coroner's Medical Report, which shows the phone calls in the Commission's Report, and the incompatibility of the property statements of MASAK experts, as well as the concrete findings in the unreasonable property increase report, oblige Erdogan Farraktar's transfer to the Supreme Court. Congressmans, now, since the texts of 49 different motions signed by one of the MPs that I'm going to read are the same, I'm going to have them read the names of the owners of the other motions after I have them read the first motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The legal scandals exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the proceedings, the obstruction of the law scandals, the examination of the proceedings of lawmakers, the violations of the proceedings of the parliamentary investigation commission, the incidents that have taken place as a result of the imposition of the numerical majority in the process of the parliamentary investigation commission, the pressure of the Commission to postpone the proceedings against Erdogan Bayraktar, the proceedings against the judiciary, the proceedings on the day of the commission's vote, and the pressure of members during the extradition of the commissions, the suppression of the law scandals, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the state's state's state's state of corruption, and the state's state's state's state has been tainted, and the state's state's state's corruption has been tainted on the day of the day. The process, which has been carried out with the four ministers, provides the basis for a critical and grave perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. In his own words, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Erdoğan Bayraktar has agreed to projects that were not done according to the zoning plans and has made special zoning plans on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's throne. Here's the thing. When the report is examined by opposition sheriffs and file managers, "I did what I did with the Prime Minister's knowledge, if I'm going to resign, the Prime Minister must resign first." The Istanbul Tough Center Project has been issued a copy of official documents, allowing illegal structures to be approved, The project on İstanbul Ataköy coast of Özyözcı Construction was granted permission/approved without complying with the zoning plan, The area of the province's first-degree status area in Sarıyer district of İstanbul has been opened with unrealistic reports. Ağaoğlu İstanbul Bakırköy has been illegally granted zoning permission for 46 projects, İstanbul Maslak İşabadem Hospital has been issued a zoning permit/approved against the Boğaziçi Law for additional service building, The company, which was granted illegal special projects for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church Foundation, was then granted an illegal zoning permit for building a health facility, and later approved for building a hotel. The area of Arif Yüksel's zoning in Beykoz, Istanbul, is seen as a green area, opening up illegally, During the ministry's mandate, there was a large amount of movement in the bank accounts of its personal and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. During the ministry's mandate, there were discrepancies in the written and verbal defences of the individual and its first-degree relatives, whose real estate and real estate have been greatly increased. We've reached the conclusion. For reasons revealed above, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Tripoli MP Erdogan Bayraktar tolerates all these irregularities against the zoning plans and provides benefit by allowing them to pass through the audit without a problem. 255, the Turkish Penal Code titled "Consultation" titled "The Use of Duty" 257. In accordance with its provisions, the High Court is required to submit the truth to an independent and impartial trial for justice. We demand and demand what we need. Adnan Şişik Ugly Ahmet Duran Bulut Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ali Halaman Ali Öz Ali Longırmak Scholar Light Atila Kaya Bahattin Sugar Bulent Belen Celal Adan Jamalettin Lightning D. Ali Torlak Edip Semih Yalçın Emin Çınar Emin Haluk Ayhan Engin Alan Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ismet Büğataman Kemalettin Yilmaz Koray Aydın Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Şandir Merkel Akşener Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Murat Basesgioğlu Mustafa Erdem Münir Kutluata Necati Özensoy Oktay Ozturk Oktay Vural Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Rusar Demirel Sadir won't stop Sinan Okan Sumer Oral Tunca Tuskayay Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh Yusuf Halaçoğlu Yusuf Ziya Irbeç Zuhal Topcu Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear Now, I'm going to read the other two motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The obstruction of legal scandals, which have been exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the judicial arm, the proceedings against Erdogan Bayraktar, the former Minister of Environment and Urbanism for corruption starting on 17-25 December 2013, has been put on hold by the pressure of proceedings against him and members of the committee on the day of the committee's vote, and the suppression of the members of the legal scandals under public's eyes during the extradition, "the obstruction of the proceedings of the law" and "stainment of the law" of the parliamentary inquiry commission commission commission commission commission, and an unforgettable corruption on the day." The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Erdoğan Bayraktar, who, in his own words, approved projects that were not done according to the zoning plans, approved by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the throne of the period's information, and issued special zoning plans; "I did what I did with the Prime Minister's knowledge, if I'm going to resign, the Prime Minister must resign first." The Istanbul Tough Center Project has been issued a copy of official documents, allowing illegal structures to be approved, The project on İstanbul Ataköy coast of Özyözcı Construction was granted permission/approved without complying with the zoning plan, The area of the province's first-degree status area in Sarıyer district of İstanbul has been opened with unrealistic reports. Ağaoğlu İstanbul Bakırköy has been illegally granted zoning permission for 46 projects, İstanbul Maslak İşabadem Hospital has been issued a zoning permit/approved against the Boğaziçi Law for additional service building, The company, which was granted illegal special projects for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church Foundation, was then granted an illegal zoning permit for building a health facility, and later approved for building a hotel. The area of Arif Yüksel's zoning in Beykoz, Istanbul, is seen as a green area, opening up illegally, During the ministry's mandate, there was a large amount of movement in the bank accounts of its personal and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. During the ministry's mandate, there were discrepancies in the written and verbal defences of the individual and its first-degree relatives, whose real estate and real estate have been greatly increased. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Tripoli MP Erdogan Bayraktar condoned all these irregularities against zoning plans and gained benefit from the Turkish Penal Code, titled "Mission abuse." In accordance with the clause, the High Court is required to submit the truth to an independent and impartial trial for justice. I demand and demand the necessary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The obstruction of legal scandals, which have been exhibited in front of the public during the extradition of the judicial arm, the proceedings against Erdogan Bayraktar, the former Minister of Environment and Urbanism for corruption starting on 17-25 December 2013, has been put on hold by the pressure of proceedings against him and members of the committee on the day of the committee's vote, and the suppression of the members of the legal scandals under public's eyes during the extradition, "the obstruction of the proceedings of the law" and "stainment of the law" of the parliamentary inquiry commission commission commission commission commission, and an unforgettable corruption on the day." The "Commissionmatical" process of the four ministers provides the basis for a critical and crucial perception that could lead to serious damage to the institutional reputation of the TBMM and the principle of the legal state. Therefore, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give a vital test before history and the nation in this vote, which is deeply concerned about its reputation, its will, its values. The TBM, which has adopted the parliamentary inquiry motion, will open its path to justice on this will, commitment to the rule of law state, and the opportunity to express the conscience of the nation. Former Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Erdoğan Bayraktar, who, in his own words, approved projects that were not done according to the zoning plans, approved by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the throne of the period's information, and issued special zoning plans; "I did what I did with the Prime Minister's knowledge, if I'm going to resign, the Prime Minister must resign first." The Istanbul Tough Center Project has been issued a copy of official documents, allowing illegal structures to be approved, The project on İstanbul Ataköy coast of Özyözcı Construction was granted permission/approved without complying with the zoning plan, The area of the province's first-degree status area in Sarıyer district of İstanbul has been opened with unrealistic reports. Ağaoğlu İstanbul Bakırköy has been illegally granted zoning permission for 46 projects, İstanbul Maslak İşabadem Hospital has been issued a zoning permit/approved against the Boğaziçi Law for additional service building, The company, which was granted illegal special projects for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church Foundation, was then granted an illegal zoning permit for building a health facility, and later approved for building a hotel. The area of Arif Yüksel's zoning in Beykoz, Istanbul, is seen as a green area, opening up illegally, During the ministry's mandate, there was a large amount of movement in the bank accounts of its personal and first-degree relatives, and there was inconsistencies and inconsistencies in its written and verbal defences. During the ministry's mandate, there were discrepancies in the written and verbal defences of the individual and its first-degree relatives, whose real estate and real estate have been greatly increased. They've been identified. For reasons revealed above, former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Tripoli MP Erdogan Bayraktar tolerates all these irregularities in violation of zoning plans and provides the benefit of the Turkish Penal Code, titled "Nuff trade." In accordance with the clause, the High Court is required to submit the truth to an independent and impartial trial for justice. I demand and demand the necessary. Congressmans, since former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar's proposals are the same, I'm going to process them together and submit them to your votes. In the third article of Article 100 of the Constitution, the transfer to the Supreme Court is carried out by the secret vote of the single majority of its integers. The decision to transfer to the Supreme Court is made by the only majority of its integers. That's why we're going to hold the vote in the form of a secret vote, and we're going to call 276 votes for the motion to be passed. As long as the meeting is enough, the secret vote will not be accepted by the Supreme Court as long as the vote is below 276. I'd like to inform you on how the secret vote will be held: The clerk, including İstanbul, and the clerk from İstanbul to Zonguldak, from İzmir to Zonguldak, will give the MPs who were read his name one thing white, one part green, and one part red, three rounds of sealed envelopes, including Istanbul, and mark the MP who was given the stamp and the envelope in the ad book. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the minister's province, where they will vote instead. As you know, the white one of these stamps means the red one, the red one, and the green one means the gravitational vote. The member will use the game after receiving three circle stamps and sealed envelopes from the clerk, and after marking his name in the name book, he will enter the closed voting place, where he will vote, where he will place the stamp in the envelope, and the other two stamps in the cart. Congressmans, please, could you clear the front of the clerks a little bit, on both sides? Please, please go back a little, I can't start the vote, I can't start the vote, please; please, a little back, please. Mr. Cetinkaya, please. Congressmans, look, I'm getting complaints from the clerks, there's an objection, I'm not going to start the vote, so would you please clear it, both sides.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0198par0117	Mr. President, call in the supervisors.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0189par0118	Congressmans, I really won't. What am I saying here, may I ask the MPs?
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0199par0119	Take a ten-minute break, Mr. President, take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0189par0120	On the contrary, the letter containing the voting stamp will be placed in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. I'd like to ask the lawmakers not to form a condensation in front of the voting booths.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0200par0122	I think you should take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-20sit07spe0189par0123	Now, I would like to inform you about the Council of Ministers who are going to vote in place of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçin Akdoğan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, Minister of Health Mehmet Müezzinoğlu, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology Fikri Işim, Minister of Finance Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Economics Nihat Zeybekci, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ömer Çelik, Minister of Customs and Trade Nuretti Canik, Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Youth and Minister of Education, and Minister of Education and Development and Development and Minister of Education and Education and Minister of Education will replace Minister of Education, Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Clerk members, may we begin, is this good? Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] [[Votings continued.]] Is there a member who doesn't use the game? The vote is over. Put the ballots away. [[The selection of votes has begun.]] We got $50 off the ballot, guys. [[The split of the votes continued]] Congressmans, I read the results of a secret vote on the transfer to the Supreme Court regarding former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar: Muhammad Bilal Macit Muharrem Light According to this result, the motion was not accepted. Thus the report of the Investigation Commission has been accepted, so it has been decided that former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar will not be transferred to the Supreme Court. Congressmans, under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 21st) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (January 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
