tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The presidency has a thesis on reassignment of the Council of Ministers: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Konya MP and Justice and Development Party Chairman Mr Ahmet Davutoglu were appointed to restore the Council of Ministers. I'd like to inform you that the list of the Council of Ministers will also be sent after the appointment of the elected ministers. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The following decisions made during meetings with the political party chiefs of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the time of the holiday of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be submitted to the General Assembly's information, according to Articles 2 and 11 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. 1) It was dated April 13, 2015, when a delegation of MPs, consisting of parliamentary diplomacy activities on the 100th anniversary of the 1915 events, made an official visit to Belgium. The visit was attended by Minister Yusuf Halaçoglu, Turkish-European Union Karma Parliamentary Commission Co-Chair Afif Demirkıran, Adana MP Osman Faruk Logogoğlu and Ankara MP Seyit Sertçelik. 2) Turkey-European Union Co-Chair Afif Demirkıran and KPK member Oğuz Oyan make an official visit to Strasbourg on April 24, 2015 for talks with members of the European Parliament on the European Parliament's Progress Report on Turkey. 3) The European Union's Integration Commission President Mehmet Tekeelioğlu's decision was issued on May 13, 2015 to join the General Assembly of the Latin American Parliament, which took place in Panama, Panama, the capital of the Republic of Panama. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are two motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersex (LGBTI) individuals is taking away the rights and rights of these individuals. The solution to this problem is neither radical nor complex. This is based on two basic principles that are the basis of international human rights law: the principle that everyone is equal to the law and the ban on discrimination. The Third Amendment of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights makes it clear: "To live, freedom and security is everybody's right." Social perception of LGBTI individuals in Turkey brings with it a great deal of pressure. There are no laws prohibiting homosexuality in Turkey, but the Civil Law does not include "sexual orientation" and "gender identity." Political authorities have either ignored gayness in public or shown hostility toward homosexuals. The lack of sufficient legal protection against sexual orientation and gender identity-based discrimination exposes LGBTI individuals to hate crimes in almost every area. LGBTI individuals are discriminated against in business, in schools, in hospitals; they are excluded and rejected by their own families. They are beaten, sexually assaulted, tortured and killed in the streets of cities and towns in Turkey. Most trans individuals are forced to perform sex work. According to Chaos GL's "Homophobia and Transphobia-based Hate Crime Report in Turkey in 2014," reports that 118 of the reported 351 hate crimes include murder, attempted murder, physical violence, assault, rape or other sexual assaults, and only 31 of the 118 cases reported to the police. In addition, 34 trans individuals were killed in Turkey between 2008 and 2013 (Kaos GL, November 18, 2013), according to Transgender Europe's report on the murders of Transgender Europe. The "hate crime" has been defined in the Turkish Penal Code (TCK) by the legislation of the Law on Change in Various Laws for the Purpose of Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms, but no protection has been brought against "sexual orientation and gender identity"-based hatred and discrimination. International standards for fighting discrimination have not been adopted. The Constitutional Court acknowledges that it is a hate speech to call homosexuals fucking. Despite the Constitutional Court's ruling, the statements aimed at the LGBTI have continued to increase. On the other hand, according to Article 3/3 of the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations Act, everyone has the right to hold meetings and demonstrations with specific purposes, which are not considered criminal by law without prior permission. Nevertheless, on Sunday (June 28, 2015), police have inflicted violence on groups who have been gathered in İstanbul Beyoglu for the (LGBTI Honor March) in Tirana and wish to march on İstlalal Street. Police have also intervened by threatening human health with pepper spray and pressure water. At the end of the day, police also threw gas bombs and sound bombs at a bar held by LGBTI associations in Beyoğlu. The mentality of 13 years of peaceful and struggling LGBTI individuals trying to block the International Walk of Honor on the basis of Ramadan month has not interfered with the demonstrators who have again performed in Istanbul/6/2015 and have expressed their demand for success. The Turkish Penal Code (TCK) states: The public's social class, race, religion, sect, or region has different characteristics, and anyone who openly provokes hatred and hostility against one another will be sentenced to one to three years in prison if an open and close danger arises from public safety. (2) A public insult to a population based on social class, race, religion, religion, gender, or region difference is punishable from six months to a year in prison. (3) A person publicly demeaning religious values adopted by some people will be sentenced to six months to a year in prison if the verb is capable of disrupting public peace. However, political power has committed a crime by provoking one party of society against another. In the International Walk of Honor in 28/6/2015, disproportionate violence by police has once again demonstrated the purpose of the law against domestic security. This intervention is also against international contracts that we're part of. For reasons stated above, we demand and demand the opening of Parliamental investigations of Articles 104 and 105 of our 98th Constitution, Turkish National Assembly, under Articles 104 and 105, in order to assess the reasons for the resolving of discrimination, violence, and non-existence, and in order to examine the reasons in political, economic, social and psychological aspects of the Constitution. [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 10) Kadirri Enis Berberoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Haydar Hakverdi [[Ankara]] 15) Selin Sayek Böke [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 19) Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Suleiman Senser Ayata [[İstanbul]] 23) Ahmet Haluk Koç [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] 29) Elif Doğan Türkmen [[Adana]] 30) Gulizar Bicer Karaca [[Denizli]] [[Denizli]] 32) Oğuz Kaan Salcı [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Scholarship]] 35) He Gives a Stopping Idea [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] 38) Gamze Akkuş İsgez [[İstanbul]] 39) Niyazi Nefi Kara [[Antalya]] 40) Cemal Okan Ascendant [[Eskişehir]] 41) Bornt Yener Bektaşoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Burdur]] 45) Ahmet Tuncay Özkan [[İzmir]] 46) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] 47) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the requirements for the opening of parliamentary research on the grounds of the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to investigate all aspects of the causes of the traffic accidents in Turkey and take the necessary measures. [[Bitlis]] 2) The Leader of the Secret [[Ankara]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Hakkari]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] 10) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Mwah.]] [[Kars]] [[Şırnak]] 17) Meral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Diyarbakır]] 20) Tuğba Hezer Özturk [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] One of Turkey's main problems is no doubt traffic accidents. According to data from the Security Directorate Traffic Service Chairman, the total number of traffic accidents occurred from 2005 to June 2015 is 10 million 357, 310. In these accidents, 42,420 of our citizens died while 2 million,264,441 of our citizens were injured. Traffic Service President's data shows that traffic accidents have been increasing every year since 2005. In 2005, 620,789 traffic accidents occurred, while in 2014, about 93 per cent increased to 1 million,199,10. These statistics have made it clear that Turkey cannot develop a comprehensive policy to prevent traffic accidents. The only arrangement that political officials make in the face of traffic accidents is to increase traffic fines by being referred to as driving defects. Clearly, these arrangements do not prevent traffic accidents and new suffering. Although there have been huge increases in the sentences imposed from 2005 to today, the number of accidents continues to increase year after year, as the figures above. However, scientific research shows that increased sentences are not effective at the point of reducing traffic accidents. The flaws in transportation policies, which cannot identify the real causes of traffic accidents, are about 97 percent human flaws." For years, government officials have made covering their own flaws a fundamental policy. This approach does not solve traffic accidents that shoot down thousands of families' stoves each year, but also brings increasing economic and social costs and many negativeities. Traffic accidents are "a painful fate." It's not something to cover up by being called. In addition, fatal cases that have arisen due to the lack of proper precautions are not accidents, but murders. Studies show that traffic accidents are also increasing in parallel as passenger and freight transport increases in weight on the roads. Transport policies in Turkey are based only on increasing the burden of land roads day by day. It's clear that double roads, third bridges, tunnels don't prevent accidents, they don't reduce the cargo on their roads. In the 1960s, the cargo of roads in transport and transport was 60 percent, while today the rate has risen to 98 percent. In developed countries, a significant portion of transportation and transportation is carried out by sea, air, and railways. The biggest reason is that it's safer and cheaper. The territorial policies of governments, which do not develop a comprehensive policy in this sense, have a significant responsibility for all events. Because of the failure of such responsibilities and the lack of proper measures, the lives that have been lost are accompanied by hope and joy. For these reasons, it is imperative that a parliamentary investigation of the causes of the traffic accidents be opened in order to ensure that preventive measures will be taken so that they will not occur again. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion to open a general meeting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hundreds of seasonal agricultural workers in Turkey die each year due to traffic accidents during transport. In the spring and summer especially when workers go to work in other areas, fatal and injured accidents are common. Labour Health and Business Council (İSIG) reported that at least 794 workers were killed in the first six months of 2015 in business killings. 227 workers died in traffic/service accidents, while 168 workers were killed in agriculture and forest work, according to the same report. On 6 July 2015, the problems of seasonal agricultural workers were raised when 15 workers were killed in a car accident in the District of Lakemarmara, Manisa. Seasonal farm workers with no guarantees and lack of organization work under primitive conditions, for very low wages from early morning to late evening. In the cities where they can't find a job, in which they can't find a job, in which they go, seasonal workers who work for an average of 20 lira a day can't afford transportation, so they are put in truck vaults and killed in their journeys, which are not suitable for traffic. Every year during spring and summer, traffic accidents during the transportation of seasonal farm workers and seasonal agricultural workers remain unresolved. Perpetual measures have not yet been taken to avoid the risks facing these workers and their families, who are traveling dangerously in vans that are used above their capacity. For this reason, in these uncontrollable and unsupervised conditions, dozens of workers die every year in traffic accidents. Even if further road inspection is necessary to prevent mortal accidents, the structural solution will be only temporary. The issue of seasonal agricultural work, one of the country's bleeding wounds, is that the state must intervene directly and bring structural solutions. As a matter of fact, on November 11, 2014, a parliamentary research commission was established at the TBM to determine the measures to investigate the problems of seasonal agricultural workers, which led to the accident and the deaths of 17 workers in the Yalvac district of Isparta on January 13, 2015, the commission was completed in March 2015. However, due to the end of the 24th term legislature activities, the commission's report was unresolved, and was unable to be discussed at the TBMM. For this reason, we propose and propose the opening and opening of the Parliamentary Research Commission report, which was established to assess and assess proposals, to discuss solution proposals, to discuss the issues of seasonal agricultural workers, especially in transport, housing, health care, and safety issues, and to address the issues of the relevant institutions, which are distributed to relevant institutions, but are not discussed in the TBMMM, but under Articles 101, 102 and 103. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda and will be held when it comes to predicting whether or not the general meeting should be opened. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. For the 3 members of the Radio and Television Supreme Council which will be discharged on July 14, 2015, the election will be held on the basis of Article 35 of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television. I'm running the names of candidates shown by political party groups through last name order: Candidates for 3 Memberships on Radio and Television Supreme Board Candidates by Justice and Development Party Group 1) Prof. Dr. Ilhan İlikaya Candidates by the National Movement Party Group 1) Dr. Vital Bice Candidates by Peoples' Democratic Party and National Action Party Groups
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0002par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0003par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0001par0236	Members of parliament, under Article 35 of Law 6112, political party groups have nominated twice their membership. The names of the candidates were printed in the form of a joint ballot according to the last name. In the election, a candidate who received the most votes from the Justice and Development Party candidate list, a candidate who received the most votes from the nationalist Action Party group candidate list, and a candidate who received the most votes from the group's candidate will be selected from the list of Peoples' Democratic Party and Nationalist Action Groups, provided there are sufficient votes. I'll keep going, but first I'll listen to the members of the group. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0004par0239	Mr. President, it is a strange practice to have four candidates named by 2 parties (c) on the list you have just read under Article 133/3 (RTÜK Law of the Constitution) and under Article 6112 (RTÜK Law of the Constitution); it is not in accordance with the conditions ordered by Law 6112. Of course, we also know the purity of the issue, which is now due to memberships -- the 19 remnants of the People's Democratic Party, the 19 remnants of the National Movement Party -- are equal, so the procedure in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, in the election of commission memberships in the past, in the election of the Presidential Court, in the form of equality in the elections. In whichever party the party falls by drawing a lottery here, the two candidates the party will show must be presented to the General Assembly's discretion on this list. There is no precedent for this practice, and it is contrary to the laws ordered by the Constitution and the Civil Law. If you are going to resist here, we demand a formal debate according to Article 63 of the Civil Code. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0001par0241	Mr. Altay, thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0005par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0001par0243	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0005par0244	Mr. President, I'd like to tell you something in addition to what Mr. Engin Altay, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, said. Now, I have official writing sent to the People's Democratic Party on 10/7/2015 by Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this official article, Mr. Parliament Speaker demanded that the name of one candidate be announced by the Peoples' Democratic Party, with the necessary qualifications according to Article 5 of Law 6112, in order to be elected between the two candidates, which two parties will announce in the General Assembly, as well as the number of equal members of the two political parties remaining in RTÜK. So there may have been four candidates on the list you've just read, but in the official letter sent by the Speaker of Parliament to Peoples' Democratic Party, we received a request from HDP that one member be notified. The whole process, which will be conducted here with the four candidates you are currently studying, is clearly in violation of RTÜK Law 6112 and Article 133 of the Constitution, because the supplemental joke of Article 133 of the Constitution is very clear on this issue. It is stated that among the candidates for which the political party groups will show the number of members to be determined by double the number of members, the number of members of each political party group is elected by the General Assembly of the Turkish National Assembly, which is therefore against both the law and the Constitution, which the Parliament Speaker has sent to our party as the beginning of this process. In cases where there has been a norm gap in the Constitution or areas described in the laws previously, Parliamentary law has applied for certain rules of law. In these hearings, it is laid out by the rules to appoint both commissions for the Presidential Court and to identify members in institutions similar to the one today. So while there are two political parties with an equal number of MPs here, with a fair choice to draw lots, you are clearly acting against both the law and the Constitution as the Presidential Court, which is running the General Assembly today. We say it's unacceptable, we say it should be applied to the method of drawing. If you do not change your attitude on this subject, we will open up a discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0006par0247	I want a word against it.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0007par0248	Lehte.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0008par0249	Against you.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0009par0250	Mr. Baluken, thank you very much. Basically, as Mr. Altay put it, all these discussions have been made, as you well know the process, but I'm considering your request for the procedure under the Civil Code, and I'm opening up a legal debate.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0010par0252	Against you.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0011par0253	Against you.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0012par0254	Lehte.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0013par0255	On it.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0014par0256	I promise every single speaker for five minutes. Mr. Kubat, Mr. Altay, Mr. Vural and Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0015par0258	We'll have Mr. Taraya speak the secret.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0014par0259	Mr. Kubat in favor, Mr. Altay in favor, Mr. Vural in favor, Mr. Commander in favor. First, I promise Mr. Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're five minutes out.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0016par0264	Make it ten minutes, Mr. President, you have the authority, you can't be so picky from the first session.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0017par0267	That's enough, that's enough, Mr. President. It's all over now. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of the position of our President in the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, just moments ago, our group presidents, HDP and Republican People's Party... the background of the matter is known -- in fact, with a legal difficulty -- there's actually a legal gap in the issue. However, leaving it free would result in a postponement of at least the part of the current election on its third membership, and the Parliamentary presidency has made such a decision because it has also demonstrated the will by the Turkish Parliament to co-exist on its decision to co-exist on the election of a member of a governing body. Now, Article 133 of the Constitution shall consist of nine members of the Radio and Television Oversight. These members are also said to be disbanded on the basis of the number of MPs in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. 258 lawmakers have AK PARTY; 4 members fall to us; 2 members fall to the Republican People's Party; 1 member to the National Movement Party and Peoples' Democratic Party falls digitally again; 1 member remains idle. Now, there is no law or Constitution to determine the legal outcome of this one member, who or which party he fell to.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0018par0271	There's a protocol.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0017par0272	Yes, the general theme is not to draw a name, but there is also this: look, if there is a loss of rights here, if the method of taking names is not clearly drafted in the law, sometimes the elections are repeated; there are many examples in the legislation, and I don't go into detail now. I mean, we can't argue that the lawmaker's involved here, either. The legislator here could have taken into account the equality of numbers and determined to draw that name, and he didn't bring that kind of judgment, so there's a void.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0019par0273	Why are you changing today?
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0017par0274	Now, my dear friends, the HDP's claim is that after the allocation of this last membership by applying for a name due to equality, the Republican People's Party's Party of National Movement has also proposed a legal opinion that will not be thrown out in its own way. In Article 35 of the Law of Political Parties, there is a criteria for determining the main opposition party, where, if there is equality, the political party, which has the most votes in the elections, will be considered the main opposition, and in the doctrine, the constitutional lawyers, again, these are the issues that are discussed. Yes, there are those who call it a name here. There are those who say there are constitutional lawyers, but there are those who argue against it. Now, I think the Speaker of Parliament has developed a fair formula for this, and for this final membership, two members should be represented; it's true. One member has requested from the National Movement Party and one member from the Peoples' Democratic Party. In fact, two members... at least the shape had been made legal, but this four-member painting has come to our attention after one of our political party groups insisted on giving two members. Now, what's going to be done in the General Assembly is this: at the end of this procedure discussion, Mr. President votes his position, develops a principle, which is applied in the following elections.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0020par0277	Redirect the president, direct the president.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0017par0278	Or delay this membership election. We'll pick the previous two members. Guys, there's no other way. Or we could make a legal arrangement. Therefore, I think that the legal interpretation of our presidency should not be dismissed in order to prevent the issue from being dragged forward because this issue is controversial, that some constitutional jurisprudence differs, and that the best way among our political party groups is to have this difference of opinion, and that the four candidates for the latest membership, as well as the current candidate list of the two political parties, will be in favour of this position of president, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0021par0281	Mr. Kubat, thank you. Now, against Mr. Engin Altay, please.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0022par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby congratulate you on your mission. I salute the bench and the General Assembly with my complete faith that you will lead the neutral, fair Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in fact, this is the trouble the President has brought upon us. While he was in the Presidential Court, Mr. Bostancı made a suggestion that a loophole was supposed to be filled like this, but in doing so -- I've known Mr. Bostanci for four years, he's practical, he's smart, but -- he's done a job that he's so sorry he threw a stone into a well, and he couldn't get it out, believe me, it turns out to be 40. Now, neither the Presidential Court nor the General Assembly -- yes, we have great respect for the power of the General Assembly -- but neither the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey nor the General Assembly have the authority to impose an internal charter, my friends. What's done here is a very clear and obvious violation of the Civil Code, a violation of the rules, a violation of the law. Now, everyone here is capable and capable of knowing what they're reading. Mr. Bostanci may be five for all of us in that regard, but now I'm reading from Mr. Bostanci's transcripts, he's making a proposal from the Presidential Court, so if the problem is not resolved, should we take it to the Law of Political Parties or should we take it to 35? When it's not understood, he makes a suggestion: let him give it, let him, let the General Assembly choose whomever he chooses. Besides, do you know what the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has to say about Mr. Bostanci's proposal? When I look at the real one, it's very fair, but I'll say it's against the law. I've always said, I've been saying here for thirteen years, the law is broken everywhere -- if it's not broken -- but if there's a place where the law can't be broken, it's here. I mean, we'd be embarrassed by the day. There's nothing about us. The National Movement Party is a respectable party for us, and the People's Democratic Party is a respectable party. Besides, they're looking at the nationalist movement party's vote here, comparing the Political Party's Law to 35. The argument is not reasonable, I'm sorry. We Republican People's Party have to interpret the law correctly and we have to tell the truth.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0023par0288	He's not asking you.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0024par0289	What you're saying is not true.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0022par0290	And when we look at the past applications here, there's a lot of examples of that, there's a lot of that in the Presidential Court, there's a lot of that in the memberships, there's a lot of that in the commissions, there's lots of that. The Kura is nothing new, but now it's a new thing to do, Mr. President, it's wrong. Let me make this clear on behalf of the Republican People's Party, and if the Constitutional Court is called to account for this tomorrow, the election will be annulled in ten days on the charge of the Actual Civil Code. Guys, look, we're gonna shut down the coven, they'll call you back tomorrow. If we leave the Actual Civil Code, the Constitutional Court will call it off. Otherwise you can go, which means it's against the Constitution. You can go for that, too. Again, it violates the 35th amendment of Law 6112, which was removed from this Parliament. Look, it's in front of you now. Can you see that? What kind of a thing is that? The law says that each party has twice as many candidates for membership in political party groups as its own. Our lawmakers will now vote and vote for the candidate the Justice and Development Party has shown in section A, which the Justice and Development Party has requested. And in the section of the National Movement Party, we will vote for the candidate they desire, no hesitation. But down there, we're doing something now, like a chef's plate, the candidates shown by the Democratic Party of People and the National Movement Party groups. Mr. President, God bless you, you sat there. Don't make a mistake on the first day. Don't break the law on the first day. On the first day, do not be a tool for the violation of the Constitution. That's what I'm saying. Since the beginning of the Republican People's Party, it has been a law-abiding, law-abiding party that believes in the rule of law. Our intention here is to keep membership in the MPP, not the HDP. We have to defend the law and the Constitution, that's why we're here. In a moment, he may need a vote in the General Assembly. I'm also asking the members of lawmakers... to wish you all good luck again, and may the 25th term pass in peace. Politics is a matter of kindness and conscience. In this frame, come, from the first day, you will be very sad tomorrow, for I have done it, ignoring the Constitution, ignoring a law under our feet. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0025par0295	I thank Mr. Altay for his wishes, his warnings, his criticism, and for his praise, and for the reference he made on the metaphor of throwing stones at the well that was also placed among the praises, and for reading through the analogy of the people's wisdom. Now, in favor, Mr. Vural, please, sir.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0026par0298	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish this new term's work to be a blessing. May God not embarrass us, all of us, against our people, against those who brought us here. In fact, the debate that came in here today is a very pointless argument -- I'm speaking to all the valued lawmakers -- all the MPs. Do you know what's being presented here today about the procedural debate? Luck, shall we continue the game of fate, or shall it be the will of the nation? Now, can such a choice be made? Let's put our hands on our conscience. We don't claim to have a lot of members on this commission because we have more votes than the parties that are our equal MP. This has come to the Presidential Court, and the matter is being settled. We said we'd have no objection to that. Since the number of RTÜK members cannot be increased, we now face the question of which party the member will enter. Now, if we're facing a problem like this... we all represent national will. People brought us here, people's votes brought us here. People voted one party equal to another party, even though he got too many votes, and that's all we're saying. As a matter of fact, it's going to be equal to 26-member commissions, and it's going to be equal to 18/18, but when it's 9, 10, 11, or 17, we're dealing with how we're going to disband one member. My dear brother, Mr. Engin, the law says: "The main opposition party, when the number of MPs is equal, what do we do?" It says, let's look at the number of votes in the last general election. You know what's first? Let's go to the draw when the exact number of votes is equal. They say. The Constitutional Commission says, "What kind of nonsense is that?" Is there any joy in such a serious matter? On the one hand, the people's will, the law, you say, "Let's bring it, Sister Nimet, the betting games."
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0027par0301	Habit.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0026par0302	Well, there's no point in bringing the betting games here.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0028par0304	That's the law, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0026par0305	No, sir, it's not in the law. Look, it's not in the law. Look, it's not in the law. Where do we apply? If there is no law in the Constitution, there is no law in the Civil Code, but we all work according to the Law of Political Parties, forming a group of 20 MPs. Where's it written? We form a group because it's written in the Law of Political Parties. In that sense, the Political Parties Act binds us all. He brought an objective measurement here. Now, it's not right to take that kind of measure, to take it easy, to reduce it. It's a really unnecessary argument. It's not about getting a lot out of a party. If we can raise it, it's not important, but what about the will of the nation? Now you're saying: there are examples. There are no examples. Look, my dear friends, Yasar Nuri Ozturk of the Republican People's Party is resigning. Yaşar Nuri Ozturk (independence) and the Plan Budget Commission are discussing whether one membership should be given to the Republican People's Party or to the independents. Now the vote will be looked at, the ratio will now be looked at. Now it's equal to the independents and the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0029par0309	It's the same, that's what happened.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0026par0310	Now, can you put the Republican People's Party and the independent vote together and evaluate it? Is there anything there besides a lot of straws? As an independent group, and as a Republican People's Party voted, there's no such thing as a comparison of the votes of these two parties. In this respect, with these arguments... these are really the arguments that have wasted our energy. The law's got it figured out. We'd really like that, you know, on the Presidential Court, the people who came to the Court, everybody, together... It doesn't say. So, is there another measure? I do. Well, then it wasn't right to bring it up here when you were supposed to say, let's use this measure. From the very beginning, it's a matter of whether or not there's more votes, if there's more than one membership. Look, by increasing the number of members here, we can't help but notice the formula for continuing this equality. Here we are, 18 members, with the Council of Counsellors, forming the Presidential Court. In this regard, what we're doing here today, this discussion of procedure, is essentially a matter that needs to be resolved first. Mr. Speaker came up with a method, so, here's one member... one member didn't become a member, and then we were asked for two members with a healing order. We're going to choose one member. If two candidates are presented in the Constitution with rhetorical comments, each party has nominated two candidates, which is appropriate for rhetorical comments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that case, we need a will. But let's put our hands on our conscience. My dear brothers, the Law of Political Parties has brought an objective measure. I really don't understand the hesitation of using this measurement. In this regard, I think that valuable lawmakers should use their will and resolve this problem in this measure of national will. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0030par0319	Mr. Vural, thank you very much. Now, against Mr. Sırrıyya Commander, please.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0031par0322	Mr. President, first of all, I wish you the best of your mission. Dear members, public law is, in a sense, a status law, which is not considered a comparison here. And those who don't know that don't go from the 1st grade of law school to the 2nd grade. I mean, it's not something to come by. There's a status being described, something else we're talking about here. Now, do you realize the triggering chain of oasis? The representatives of the party, who speak against all sides, agree that this is against the Constitution and the Civil Code. So what we're doing right now is against the Constitution and the Civil Code. Well, let me say something more grave than that, inspired by Mr. Vice President, who is currently in charge of our session. There are valuable RTÜK members who have been selected in the Constitution, but are you aware that the status of what we are about to send will change? He described the political party here and said the Constitution would be nominated twice as much as it is, and General Kurula said you should choose one of the two candidates who fell into this political party. Now, we say to the General Assembly, do you prefer the DP or the HDP? Let's say they prefer the MPP, let's say they prefer the HDP. When he goes to RTÜK, his status will be different from the others. I came to the MPP, winning, or I came to the HDP. He will say, "I have won." So we're going to trigger a chain irregularity by agreeing to this vote. Otherwise, of course, he could be chosen from the National Movement Party. If they hadn't seen the flu and started to see us a little bit clearly, if they'd come and talked to us, there would have been a way, procedure, justice, but since they've seen the flu, it's come down to this, precious proxy. Are we going to start with a violation of the Constitution, or not? Mr. AK PARTY deputy leader has asked us to violate the Constitution. I swear, I'm sorry, Mr. Doğan, I've broken it once, I've been sentenced to 12 years. Nearly two-thirds of this group are people who have rotted in prisons for years for the Constitution, for the declaration, for the instigation, for all sorts of things. You can't make us break the Constitution, Mr. Doğan. So we're very particular about it, we're sensitive, the Constitution is the constitution of all of us. What's going to happen here is the withdrawal of this irregularity. The main opposition is also a status set by the Constitution. Here is the proposal of the National Movement Party, which can be understood, friends; it brings a criteria, it says: the number of votes. There is equality, there is no equality; the law is not related to that. If we adopt this proposal by the National Movement Party as a criterion -- the AC PARTY didn't sort it out -- something interesting arises, and then this membership falls to the Justice and Development Party, if we take it as a criteria. The distribution of the work, like David Dursun, must be applied to the formula that David Dursun had forced the Speaker to organize the RTÜK, before he himself left. That's why I wish that dialogue could've solved this problem. The theory is realized, it has been implemented many times -- fair, no -- the possibility that the two sides are equal is always fairer than to submit it to a controversial vote. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-07-14sit01spe0032par0330	[[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Commander, thank you very much. Congressmans, I declare the position of our president: On May 7, 2015, the Radio and Television Oversight Board sent the Radio and Television Oversight Council to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The three members' mandate will expire on July 14, 2015. Two of the non-members were elected from the Justice and Development Party Group and one of the nationalist Action Group's quotas. The Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Televisions 6112 is carried out by the "dispersion of divorce memberships to political party groups, the number of members elected from political party groups in the first election, and the current proportion of political party groups are taken into account." In accordance with its ruling, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has determined the distribution of memberships, which will be empty according to the number of members of party groups in parliament after the general election on June 7, 2015. According to this, 1 member of the 3 members to be discharged in RTÜK has been identified as falling to the Justice and Development Party Group, 1 membership to the National Party of Action. 1 has been found to be disintegrating equally due to the equality of the number of members between the Peoples' Democratic Party Group and the National Movement Party Group. The law does not provide a previous example of the RTÜK membership election, which does not include an regulation on which party group membership will be given in equal proportion to the number of members. On the other hand, there is no regulation in the Interior Charter on what to do if political party groups are equal in percentages. "If the president sees the need to carry out his duties, he may receive the opinion of his Court." The Supreme Assembly of Turkey was called to a meeting by the President of the Grand National Assembly on July 9, 2015 to assess the issue under his sentence. At the end of the meeting, where members of the Court share their views, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has stated that an opinion will be received from the academics of constitutional law. The Presidential Court has been called back to a meeting on July 13, 2015 to share academic views. In view of these views, two separate views have emerged as the implementation of the method of the lottery and the base of the most valid voting criteria if the number of parties are equal in the determination of the main opposition party, which is part of Article 35 of the Political Party's Law. On 10 July 2015, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey demanded that political party groups issue a written request for candidates. One candidate has been asked to vote among the two candidates the General Assembly will announce, as there is equal membership among the members of Peoples' Democratic Party and the National Movement Party for 1 membership left in RTÜK. Following the announcement of two candidates for the 1 membership, which is equal to the group of Peoples' Democratic Party and the National Movement Party, the joint ballot of Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been organised accordingly. Among the two political party groups, the election of one member among the two candidates reported by each group has been approved by the presidency of TBMM, assuming that membership for 1 falls to each two political party groups. That's how the election will be carried out. There's no change in the position of president. Now, my dear friends, I would like to ask you how the vote will be held: The clerk members of the Commission and the cabinet members in the ranks of the government will mark the name of the MP from Adana to Denizli, including Denizli -- including Denizli -- and from Diyarbakir to İstanbul -- including Istanbul -- from İzmir to Mardin -- from Mardin to Mersin to Zonguldak. The named MP will be given a sealed joint ballot and envelope. Using the vote, the MP will drop the envelope containing the ballot into the ballot box placed in front of the Presidential Court bench. One candidate from the Justice and Development Party Group candidate list, one candidate from the nationalist Action Group candidate list, will be marked by a square cross-sign from Peoples' Democratic Party Group and the National Movement Party candidate list against the names of 1 candidate. The ballots marked by more than one candidate from each of the three candidates listed on the united ballot will be invalid. These issues are also listed on the joint ballot as footnotes. Members of parliament, a five-person collection commission will be determined by drawing a name for the census and transcript of the vote. The members of our clerks' commission, elected members, will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, Gaziantep? Here. Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan, Mersin? Here. Mr. Ihsan Sener, Army? No. Mr. Orhan Karasayar, Hatay? No. Mr. Barýþ Y friend, Istanbul? Here. Mr Mustafa İbrahim Turhan, İzmir? No. Mr. Ahmet Ashraf Fakibaba, Şanlıurfa? Here. Mr. Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa? Here. I'd like to request that the members of the clerk take their place and the ballots and the envelopes be delivered. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Sir, is there a member who doesn't use the game? No. The voting process is complete. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm having them read the names of the members of the Board of Accounts: Kadir Koçdemir, Bursa MP; Mehmet Erdoğan, Gaziantep MP; Barış Ycık, İstanbul MP; Yılmaz Tezcan, Mersin MP; Ahmet Eşref Fakıbaba, Şanlıurfa MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Honourable lawmakers, I'm here to read and report the Commission on the election for Radio and Television High Council membership: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 471 members participated in the election for three members of the Radio and Television Oversight Board, and the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Kadir Koçdemir Mehmet Erdoğan Barış Y Friend Yilmaz Tezcan Ahmet Eşref Fakibaba Justice and Development Group Candidate List: Prof. Dr. Ilhan İlikaya 327 votes Nationalist Movement Group Candidate List: Dr. Vital Bice 28 votes Peoples' Democratic Party and National Action Groups Candidate List: Arif Storm (MHP) 295 votes Filiz Koçali (HDP) 157 votes Nevruz Uður (HDP) 5 votes Ismail Passenger (MHP) 4 votes According to this, Professor Dr. Ilhan Orikaya of the Justice and Development Party Group candidate list, Assat Nude of the National Movement Group, has been elected as members of the Association of Peoples' Democratic Party Group and Arif Storm Radio and Television Supreme Board of candidates for equal membership. I wish him well. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On the basis of the July 20th Peace and Freedom Day of the Turkish Cypriot Republic President Mustafa Akincı and the General Assembly of the Turkish Cypriot Republic, on the basis of his official visit to the Turkish Cypriot Assembly to the Turkish Cypriot Assembly to the Turkish Cypriot Assembly to respond to the announcements of Mr. Cyber's foundation, which is dated 28/3/1990 and 3620, according to the Constitutional Court's Article of Foreign Relations of Turkey. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Honourable MPs, the Council of Counsellors has a recommendation, and I'd like to make a brief statement before we pass it on to him. Sir, today is my first day as Deputy Speaker. I was elected Parliamentary MP in 2011, served in this Parliament for four years, continued my duties on various grounds of parliament. In the 2015 elections, I was elected Amassian MP again. I stand before you as Acting President of the House, following your procedures. The reason I'm talking about this time is because I've been able to observe how the House works. What I see is that our esteemed House has a common decision and will about the Constitution, the laws and the rules. Even though there are sometimes differences in opinion, these differences are discussed gracefully, maturely, in line with the democratic acquish, and ultimately in accordance with the Parliament. In political science, the best government is the least government. I have once again come to the conclusion that, because of this elegant environment, we see one example today, the Regents of Parliament will not be burdened too much. Therefore, I would like to express once and for all our decision and will in behalf of my friends that our mission here would be a procedure mission, that we would serve in a way worthy of this House. Thank you very much. I hereby congratulate you on the blessed Ramadan Holidays of the sentence. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. Starting on Wednesday (July 15, 2015) at a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday (14/07/2015) and starting on Thursday (October 1, 2015) at 15 p.m. It has been deemed appropriate for the General Assembly to submit the proposal to take a vacation meeting at 00. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, since there are no other issues on our agenda, it is 15 p.m. on Thursday (October 1st 2015) to discuss issues that will be on our agenda as part of the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
