tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzzel. Mr. Corporate, you've been doing a big performance for three days. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, I celebrate the festival of the oppressed people in our geography, the festival of our Kurdish brothers and sisters, as a festival of peace and brotherhood, and blessed be to our people. Today, in many parts of Turkey and the region, the fires of the Nevroz are burning at its locations. I share the longings of our people, both Kurdish people and oppressed people, who have paid the price, suffered the pain, and carried their holiday to this day. I salute our mothers, our families, who have suffered so far, who have lost their children. The festival of neuroses has been celebrated on our country's land for quite some time, along with the national motifs, identity, color of the Kurdish people, and each time the people speak of a solution, peace, democratic future, and brotherhood. That's what it means from history to today. But in particular 2015, the upcoming elections in our country are very important for the Kurdish people, the oppressed people, the people who want democracy and peace, to be in Parliament as well as in the fields. At the same time, the process of non-conflict is important for it to carry both a lasting peace and a future of freedom. If there really is still a persistent struggle for identity, equal citizenship, despite all massacres, slaughters, ignoring, assimilations, village evacuations, unsolved deaths, even today, it's mainly because of the resistance of women, young peoples and oppressed peoples. It's our duty to respect it in front of this. Let them not be sorry, none of these efforts have been wasted so far, and we believe that sooner or later, the winner will be the nation's front, the one who insists on peace. Dear lawmakers, what demands are being expressed today in the squares of Nevroz, I would simply like to remind you of them. First of all, the internal security package that is currently in session in the House must of course be withdrawn. It's clear that neither the demands of the Kurdish people nor the peace process that we're looking for are incompatible. Where there's no freedom, of course, there's no talking about peace. For him, we remind power once again. Look, there are now reports that 20,000 police officers have been deployed in the area to secure the election. Election security, trust in the public, that's the key. With cops, law enforcement, security forces, putting them on the streets, suppressing democratic actions, especially taking the lives of children, young people, there will be no peace, no democracy in this country. Don't shoot the children. We say, "Don't shoot the children." And especially for political reasons, because he's been in prison for years, asking for freedom, we remind him once again of the release of all the prisoners, the prisoners, who are lying for their own reasons. The struggle for peace should not be made a matter of arm wrestling, it shouldn't be turned into a political struggle, especially avoid election material. Using the media, using a provocative language, again, would not be right to be in a separative approach. I especially want to address power: You will not grant anything, you will not be gracious. No one expects anything from you. So you won't say what's missing from you. That's how a sovereign language, first of all, needs to be abandoned, with all the lost children of the Kurdish people standing in the middle. Therefore, no one begs for compassion and mercy; you just have to give in to the people's rights, and that will surely happen. You have to do the solutions, listen to the people, and don't dilly-dally. This negotiation process needs to act on similar needs, and not play inside the Kurdish people into their political powers. This move, this struggle is united enough, and of course the political bans on Kurdish people and dams will not be the solution. Our working class owns this issue, it's a fundamental solver; I want to greet my Kurdish brothers once again in their language in the name of unity and brotherhood:......... [[x]] I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. The second non-responsored statement belongs to Alexei MP Haydar Akar, who wants to speak about the problems of local media. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, lawmakers, today's off-the-book conversation is on local media, media. The media, viewed as an instrument of democracy, the fourth force, has a functional duty to bring public voice to the agenda and to monitor political power. Of course, he has a duty to oversee political power. When I say, as we all know, I'm not talking about the pool media or the illegal media, I'm not talking about the public opportunity and the trumpet of political power. When we say media, we think of media and local media. It's none of your business anyway. The widespread media is 80 per cent, and the local media is 17 per cent, which today, although we know about the problems of the media, the revenue resources, local media -- the biggest problem -- has major problems in both economic struggles, as well as in employment, with quality employment. He noticed that last week at the university, he organised a workshop attended by local media bodies, the media, and our friends involved in local media, and in this workshop, 13 articles identified the problems of the media, local media, and at the same time, he identified proposals for solutions to these 13 articles. Of course, if it's the government's business, it's about solution proposals, but I don't think it's going to be a big deal. Since politics and capital relations have been reflected in the media, they have not only created illicit media and pool media in widespread media, they have also created local media. But local media still has three major problems. One is the problem of economic relations, the other is the problem of circulation and control. We can actually see our friends working in the local media as idea workers, a local slavery. They have rights stemming from Law 212, but they can never exercise those rights. Generally, because the case of this training is ignored in local media, it is usually preferred to employ people who have no contact with the press and to work for low wages; they are ignored at work hours; they always have to wait on work hours, not during work hours; and they are not paid on duty, they are tried to work without legal rights. Again, he's been stripped of his disposable shares, and with a law that we passed last year, we've taken five years to take advantage of his previous three-year share of wear and tear. And only the yellow press card can take advantage of that. Again, he's got a lot of problems like this. One of the biggest problems is non-payment. Under the law, their wages should be paid in advance, but they were never paid in advance. Their equipment is being made available to the employees, and they are not treated as a cost of equipment, nor as a cost of amortization, and they are forced to provide for them entirely from their own gains. The problems of the local newspapers and our fellow journalists have become a little more difficult, as those who are not from the profession, who are not from the profession, who are not from the profession, are more newspaper bosses and whose business relations have become more prominent. One of the biggest problems of organizing is that there was the Union of Journalists of Turkey before, but you formed a yellow union in the Anadolu Agency, as in other areas, you took out the Union of Journalists of Turkey and tried to prevent unionisation with your power, political power, economic power in Turkey. However, Turkey's Union of Journalists was organized in my town, in the Newsyelle newspaper, and started its trade union activities. Our friends there also made their contracts, and they work in harmony with the employer. I'd like to thank our friends there who provide this opportunity, and I'd also like to thank the employer here. I'd like to say once again that all employers should remove obstacles to our friends' organisation, just as they did in the headline newspaper. What needs to be done is, once in a while, people who don't come from work are prevented from becoming newspaper bosses, which we're all seeing in Turkey -- how ally and non-violent media, pool media are created, newspapers with the same headline. The government that bought national newspapers also began to buy local newspapers. This needs to be stopped and our friends' problems need to be solved, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The third non-responsive statement is owned by Kars MP Ahmet Arslan, who wants to talk about investments in the province of Kars and the TANAP project. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0006par0043	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0005par0044	The speaker is on the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0006par0045	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0005par0046	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0007par0048	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, our esteemed citizens watching us from the beginning of the screen, dear Karsians, and I salute you all. Why did I stress Kars in particular, my friends? Two days ago, the TANAP project was founded in Kars. Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline is an investment of 10 billion dollars, an investment that will employ 5,000 people, and will provide jobs for our people in over 500 villages in 20 counties, 67 districts, over 500 districts. And I'll put it right into the conversation we just had. The media specifically followed it yesterday, some made headlines, stressing the importance of this project to highlight Turkey's position. This project is a peace and brotherhood project. This project is a project of Turkey becoming a country of influence in the world. This project shows how four different ethnic structures in Turkey-Azerbaijan and Kars have been acting as brothers for a thousand years, but some of them, let alone on the front page, didn't even have a line on the inside page. But our people know this, the oppressed and the victims of the world know that Turkey's success means that a world leader country, which they will embrace, will become stronger and stronger. Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, that's where Turkey is coming from. So, how does Kars take advantage of it? So far it's been said that Turkey and Kars are the bridge because of geography. I keep telling you, if you're not using the bridge, if you're not taking advantage of your bridge position, it doesn't make sense that you're in a bridge position. Here, Turkey uses this bridge position between Europe and Asia, the Balkans and the Middle East; it uses Marmaray, uses it with the third airport, uses it with the third bridge, but more importantly, Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhanla uses it with Baku-Tiflis-Kars-Erzurum. Today, natural gas will now go all the way to Europe through the TANAP (TANAP) and Kars. The stronger you are, the stronger you are, the stronger you are in the energy corridors, the more you are in the world. For him, Kars is now very important, the center of the Kars energy transport corridors, the center of Baku-Tiflis-Kars, the center of Kars-Igçu-Dilcucu, the center of logistics and the capital of the fast train to Central Asia, the capital of the Caucasus. We have shown that even east of Turkey, an airport can host 17 planes by hosting three presidents at Karstata Harakani Airport two days ago -- 17 aircraft parks -- shows the point Turkey has come to. Kars is becoming the center of a road map that will bring down the cargo of Russia, the Black Sea via Kars, to the south, to the Middle East, not to the east-west axis, but to the north-south. So, we think bigly of the future of the future of Turkey, as we think greatly of its future, that we say: "Kars no longer deals with small things, Kars gives support to the AK PARTY, and the center of commerce becomes the center of congress, the center of tourism. Hasan Harakani is growing in his spiritual embodiment, promoting faith tourism, cultural tourism, winter tourism, congressional tourism. There was a school opening, not just one school opening, there were 19 other openings. We have 48 finishing schools. We also opened 237 classrooms, 800 student-access pensions. There are so many projects that, in fact, they were supposed to be explained in just five minutes, but the opening of the customs county office, the opening of the Aktaş Border Gate, the new courthouse, the new prison, many dams, many programs, but Karsli knows in a nutshell. We've fit into a book that we've done in the last four years, and everybody says, "You've missed a lot of things. We know that Turkey is growing, Kars is growing, we're moving on." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0008par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Vural, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0009par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. In our Central Asia and Anatolia, I celebrate the New Year, March 21st -- which is known as the spring festival and is known as the release of Ergenekon. I wish for peace, peace, beauty. On this occasion, the 11th Assembly of the National Movement Party on March 21st. The Ankara Arena Closed Gym will be held at 10 p.m. on Saturday. On such a meaningful day, we hold our convention. We invite all our citizens to this convention. On the other hand, a very important project -- to be clear, one nation, two states -- was the basis for a project on the transport of Azerbaijan gas from Turkey to Europe via the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline. It's a very important project. In fact, the creation of the East-West energy corridor after Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline is an important project for the Caspian region's energy sources to head towards Europe via Turkey. Therefore, I think it is important for Turkey to avoid competitive projects that would prevent the Caspian region's energy sources from being released, especially by reducing the dependence on Russian natural gas with other projects, by increasing energy security and by increasing the capacity of South Stream or Blue Stream, which could compete with this project. I wish this step in the corridor of East-West energy to be a blessing to our nation, to the Turkish world, to Azerbaijan. This project is also very important not only for Turkey, but also for Europe's energy security. In this regard, these developments between Russia and Ukraine have increased the strategic importance of this project. I wish him luck, with his capacity increased and his service to larger masses and countries. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0010par0012	Thank you, too. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0011par0014	Ali will speak for our group in person.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0010par0015	He'll speak on behalf of your group, Mr. Original. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0012par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the Republican People's Party Group, have been celebrating in Central Asia since history, the New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, and the Nevruz, a week's holiday in Azerbaijan, in particular. We pray that Nevruz will bring peace, brotherhood, peace to our country and to the region. I hope, like these flowers that bloom in the spring with Nevruz, a new era begins in our country, and people will have flowers on their faces.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0010par0020	Thank you. As the Court, we celebrate the Festival of Nevruz. We wish that Nevruz Day would bring flowers to all Turkey, as you say, Mr. Özgündüz. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the Constitutional Charter of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey requires the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105, so that the social, psychological, and economic effects related to divorces can be minimised, and the measures necessary to improve social awareness. [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 11) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] 16) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Due to the fact that Turks have been living in tribal groups throughout history, it has been a necessity and tradition for children to be married among relatives because it is a mobile society. Today, relative marriages continue for reasons such as the dissolution of large estates and property, the protection of the family union, the cultural, pattern and tradition among people who grow up in different environments, and that if the bride or groom is related, they will have their elders. According to data from 2011, 76.5% of young people choose their spouses from the family and neighbouring community, 10.2% from the school and business community, 10.8% from the social community. In 2011, the relative marriage rate is 21.2% and the first rate of first-degree relative marriage is 51.9%. Sadly, relative marriages present themselves as a sociological phenomenon that brings many negatives. In addition to being damaged by relatives when they break up or when they decide to divorce, couples who are related also carry out a negative tradition called "namus" or "a murder of tradition." The biggest problem with a relative marriage is that children are likely to be born with hereditary disease. In particular, mental retardations, thalasemia and diabetes, such as treatment and rehabilitation costs, are more common in children who are born through relative marriages, and the number of disabled children is increasing. Due to the lack of full implementation of the social state reality in our country, the mother or older daughter is suspended from working life in order to care for the disabled child at home, so women's employment is negatively affected. A conscious marriage can reduce social and economic burdens on the country, preventing the birth of sick-blocked children, providing employment for women. The overall purpose of the study: the study of the sociologic effects of relative marriages, the reduction of social, psychological and economic effects related to divorces, the measures needed to improve social awareness. 1) To determine sociological factors in the marriage of relatives in rural and urban areas, 2) To determine sociodemographic properties with the number of couples who can't get divorced so their relative ties don't get hurt, 3) With the psychological and socioeconomic effects of divorce-related marriages and separated couples and their children, determining ways to minimize these effects, 4) Identifying the economic responsibility imposed on family and state in treatment, education and rehabilitation services through the number of sick or disabled children born through relative marriages. 5) To determine practices that can be carried out in order to improve the awareness of society regarding the sociological and psychological effects of relative marriages. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Norm's postings of extra staff teachers should be appointed to educational institutions with a norm staff deficit in the province, primarily located in the district or the educational institutions in which they are assigned, while the National Ministry of Education has appointed teachers to be victimised by teachers without their preferences. Overkilled by 4+4+4, our teachers should not be allowed to be more victims. In this regard, we propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to prevent the victims of teachers, take the necessary measures, and investigate. [[Şırnak]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The 4+4+4-level training model, which was tried to be implemented without the necessary work and infrastructure investment, has seriously victimised tens of thousands of teachers in many ways. Thousands of teachers who were waiting to be appointed from the municipal and illegal appointment group before schools opened have been severely disappointed, while many teachers who are waiting to be appointed to an appointment and apology group have been seriously disappointed. First of all, in the municipal relocation manual, teachers who have been moved to a desired location have been prevented from applying to change places between the provinces. Another victim has been created by indications that only those who cannot be appointed within the province can apply for interstate relocation. According to the ministry's guide, teachers who have been replaced by territorial relocation have also been denied the request to relocate from the apology situation. With the departure of schools on 4+4+4, nearly 30,000 teachers have been reduced to almost 70,000 teachers over norms, particularly teachers. Norm was forced to switch classroom teachers who became more, but with so many excesses, they were unable to settle in the schools they preferred. It has previously been noted that the appointment will not be made in the norm surplus sectors of the Atama and Location Manual. The appointment of health, education and co-existence apology groups and the absence of replacements of thousands of teachers have created chaos. In previous arrangements, the National Ministry of Education has already dropped the city's decree before it is appointed to the province in case there are no norm staff deficits in a province. Although most of the teachers in the apology group have enough service points, the drama of the broken families has deepened this year because of the extra norm problem and other problems with the apology group. Norm has made more and more of the problems and victims of the appointment of the apology group, as well as what will become of the classroom teachers in the case of extra staff. According to Norm's 41st article, titled "excessive substitutes for teachers" of the National Ministry of Education, dated 06/05/2010 and published in the Official Journal of 27573, "in the case of the transfer of students, those who are in charge of the education institutions or training institutions, which are primarily in the area of education, or in which students are being suspended for lack of students, are also subject to the need to be given an apology in the areas of education in which students are first carried out." The expression is included. For these reasons, it is useful to set up a research commission to investigate and take precautions on the situation in which teachers are involved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Turkey's Statistical Institution's Research on income and living conditions, the difference between the highest income and the lowest income in Turkey by 20 per cent is 8 times higher, while the difference in the region is 18 times higher. In order to examine and determine the measures necessary for the study of this situation, which could lead to public unrest and turmoil, we ask for and demand the investigation of the problem by setting up a research commission under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Charter 98, TBMM, and 105. 30.11.2012 7) Ayla Akat Ata Batman 15) Sırrı Süzeyya Önder İstanbul The difference between inequality and development between regions is the result of the concentration of production factors in one-sided and unstable areas during the historical process. The properties of the regions are considered to be the cause of the inequality distribution, but regional inequality has occurred as a result of capital build-up and development models created by the industrial revolution. Today, the difference in between regions of development draws attention as one of the most important problems in most of the world. The differences in socioeconomic development can be seen not only among countries, but also among different regions of one country. Such differences in development in the country cause many social and economic problems, such as unfair revenue distribution, migration and distorted urbanization. For this reason, policies are especially implemented in the European Union to reduce differences between regions in order to ensure socioeconomic integrity. The EU's regional policies were designed to ensure the Union's economic and social development and integration, to deal with employment and development problems stemming from differences in the intergalactic income distribution. The European Union has devoted about a third of its budget to regional policy and has shown its importance to eliminate differences between regions. The discovery of the difference in territorial development in Turkey dates back to the last years of the Ottoman Empire and the founding years of the Republic. In the Ottoman period, the difference in development between regions that emerged at the end of the 19th century began with the decline of economic activities based on existing crafts and the collapse of the empire. In the early years of the Republic, the West Anatolian, which had the chance to engage in commercial relations with Western Europe, has become more advanced than the eastern regions. This growth difference, which has begun, has grown deeper and deeper since the lack of state policies followed and the concentration of production factors in major cities. In Turkey, development plans, launched in 1963, were then implemented by regional plans and investment reductions, but unequal development between the regions was not prevented, especially the scissors between the east and the west continued to open. Starting in 1980, the difference between liberalisation of markets, quotas and other obstacles in foreign trade, the reduction of state, privatisation and opening doors to foreign capital, as well as the implementation of neoliberal policies that could be summarized, has become a precipitous gap between the east-west. The state's departure from the economic area has been left to its destinies, as some cities' only industrial facility, the state factories, have been sacrificed to privatisation. During the AKP Governments, where Neoliberal policies were accelerated and continued, most of the resources that seemed to have been transferred to Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions outside Gaziantep and Kilis were used in defence, security spending and energy investments. According to Turkey's Statistical Agency's research into income and living conditions, the difference between the highest income and the lowest income is 8 times higher in Turkey, while the income gap reaches 18 times higher in the region. According to the study, the average annual equivalent household income is 14.873 lira in the Istanbul area, while the number drops to $5,418 in the Southeast Anatolia region. The other aspect of the study is the proportional and quantitative increase in the population that could be included in the 16.7 per cent of the region living below the poverty limit. In 2009, the total share of the population, which is at a constant risk of poverty, rose to 17.3% in 2010 to 18.5. This means that an 18.5-pound section of the 16.7, living below the poverty line, can be jointed at any moment. In light of these reasons, it would be appropriate to investigate the reasons for inequality between revenues and regions, one of the biggest obstacles to social peace. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Row, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0013par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating March 21st, Nevruz. Mr. President, in our collective culture geography, from the Balkans to Central Asia, the Nevruz, which has been celebrated for centuries, is the common value of all of us and the common holiday of all of us. We live under the same dome, regardless of language, religion, religion, faith, ethnicity and political opinion. The feast of Nevruz reminds us once again of this unwavering truth. So we'll celebrate this meaningful day hand in hand and heart, holding each other tighter than ever. I wish that all the peoples of our collective culture, especially our beloved nation, celebrate the festivals of Nevruz, which I wish for peace and prosperity. Mr. President, I also wish you the best of luck to the National Movement Party, which will hold this weekend's congress, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. I wish good luck to the esteemed MPs and representatives of the National Movement Party, the community. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0014par0182	Thank you. Members of the law, there are three motions for questioning. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. I'll have the motions read separately. The summary of the motion will be read, since the motion for the geneorization I will be reading in the 2nd place is more than 500 words. However, the full text of the motion will be added to the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the failure to determine the whereabouts of children in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, children's homes, men's homes, girls' homes, love houses, care and central social rehabilitation centers, YOGEM boarding institutions and protective care and rehabilitation centers, family and Social Policy Minister Aysinur Islam has been unable to find out where the children are at these institutions. Fatma Nur Serter Ensar Öğüt Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Şeker Mehmet Haberal Binnaz Earth from Uður Bayraktutan Ali Serindağ Hurşit Sun Orhan Straight Müslim Sarı Ali Haydar Öçar İzzet Cetin İhsan Özkes Bkent Kuşoğlu Ali Demirçallı Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Oğuz Oyan Muharrem İnce The Ministry of Family and Social Policy in December 2013; 1) There are 712 children registered in children's homes and girls' homes where there are actually 460 children taken care of, a registered and actual difference of 252, 2) When there were 1,184 children registered in a day care centre, there were actually 901 children taken care of, the difference recorded and actually looked at was 283, 3) When there are 2,014 children registered in male foster homes, there are 1,201 children actually taken care of, the difference recorded and actually looked at is 813, 4) When there are 355 children registered in girls' homes, there are actually 138 children taken care of, the difference recorded and actually looked at is 217, 5) When there are 4,646 children registered in loving homes, there are 3,952 children actually taken care of, the difference recorded and actually looked at is 694, 6) There are 1.168 children registered in care and social rehabilitation centres where there are 711 children who are actually taken care of, a registered and actual difference of 457, 7) When there are 225 children registered in a group of boarding institutions, there are actually 178 children taken care of, the difference recorded and actually looked at is 47, 8) There are 495 children registered in protective care and rehabilitation centres, while there are actually 187 children, registered and actually looked at, the difference appears to be 308. In 2013, statistics found that 3,071 children were registered but were not in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy institutions. The reasons for the differences in these statistics published by the ministry were asked by İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter on 30/1/2014 by a question motion, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy changed the statistical publishing system, preventing the difference of children who were registered and were actually looked at. Ten months later, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy responded to the question motion on 21/10/2014, not explaining where these children were. Depending on this incident, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter asked the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, under the Law on Information No. 4982 on 3/6/2014, about 3,071 children who were registered in the statistics of December 2013, even though they were registered in institutions of the Ministry. On 9/10/2014, 16 children were reported missing, with modified figures that didn't match the 2013 statistics. Given recent events in our country, many families have been known to have lost children, many children face abuse and rape. Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur Islam has not been able to determine clearly how many children there are in the institutions of the Ministry. At least 3,071 children were missing in December 2013, at least 16 children were found in institutions belonging to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur Islam has not been able to determine the whereabouts of children who have been handed over to his authority in the institutions of the Ministry. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As a result of the wrong policies in food, agriculture and livestock, our producers have suffered a great deal of stress as the prices of input, diesel, fertilizer, and food prices have increased dramatically. Our manufacturer, who can't even pay off a loan from the government, is at an end. We demand and demand that the amendment be opened in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution's 98th, 99th and TBM Institution of the Constitution on Food, Agriculture and Animalism Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker, who has not taken the necessary measures and has failed to meet the requirements of his duties. 9/3/2015 Ensar Öğüt Sedef Small Moon Pitcher Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Bihlun Tamaylıgil Muslim Sarı Erdal Aksunger Ali Riza Özturk Aydın Agha Ayadın Mehmet Şeker Ali Serindağ Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Binnaz İk Uğur Bayraktutan Ali Haydar Öner Aytun Çıray Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Haberal Haluk Koç Hurşit Sun İhsan Özkes Orhan Straight Izzet Cetin The wrong policies followed by the AKP government, which has been in power since 2002, have reached the end of agriculture and animalism in our country, and our producers are unable to produce, can't pay their loans. In our country, which once exported agricultural and animal products, for the first time in the history of the republic, the animal sacrifice was imported during this period of government. However, imports considered a temporary solution to comfort markets have become a habit of the Ministry of Agriculture, thus ending our local manufacturer. Billions have been spent on the import of meat and live animals from many countries, especially in countries such as Australia, Bulgaria, Hungary. The meat of natural-fed animals is rich in omega 3 vitamins. Omega 3 is in green plants. By eating green plants and consuming natural animal flesh, disease will decrease, and our people will live in good health because of the consumption of red meat. According to KAMU-SEN's research, annual meat consumption is 142 kilograms per person in Australia, 125 kilograms in the United States, 82 kilograms in Germany, and 12 kilograms in Turkey. While the government does not receive taxes from gas for ships and luxury yachts, it is taxing the farmer for around $4. However, if the diesel is sold to our manufacturer at $1.50, the production will be greater, so it will contribute to our economy, and our village will be improved. On December 13, 2010, the head of the Department of Agriculture Protection and Control, the brain, which is called the specific risk material of imported cattle and small animals, sent to the governors with an euphemism of burial or burning records, so that they could be destroyed as soon as possible because of the risk of disease, that their materials would not be presented to human consumption, that they would be pursued in the slaughterhouses, not in the food and food chain, but incinerated and kept. Many times after that, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has asked for the truth of this article, and the example of the article has been asked according to the Information Act. However, the example of the article was not given, but it was said only to the governorships to be more careful in implementing the ministry's legislation. After long struggles, we received a copy of the article, which proved to be true. Clearly, imported animals and meats that are unknown to the conditions of their arrival are spreading disease. Years ago, the Chernobyl Plant exploded, and years later its effects were seen, and now our citizens who ate diseased imported meat will suffer years later. The Association of Veterinary Medicines has announced that the documents sent by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism point to mad cow disease, that the risks must be monitored in imported animals, but that it is impossible to monitor them because they are imported animals for slaughter. Again, in this AKP government period, agricultural support has not been paid on time, and direct income support has been reduced every year. Article 21 of the Agricultural Law states that "a farmer is supported by 1% of the national income." In 2014, according to this Law, the farmer had to be given 17 billion dollars, while the government had to pay 9.5 billion. The prime minister said, "We will increase Mazot's support by 5 per cent." He received a tax of $9 billion on the gas used by the farmer because of the OTV and VAT. He collects nine billion liras, he supports 500 million liras. So it's 18 times the support from the farmer's tax return. At the same time, unemployment took place, while the government, which paid billions of dollars for food products, has made our country dependent on the outside, and our manufacturer has sunk our farmer into great hardship and debt. Therefore, we demand and demand that the geneor be opened in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution, 97th, 99th and TBM Institution of the Constitution on Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker, who has failed to carry out his duties. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 2010, the Ministry of National Education launched a project called the Development of Opportunities and Technology Development Movement (FATIH Project). The project will be completed in 2014, the Ministry of National Education announced in its initial statements. At this point, the FATHIH Project averaged 92.4 per cent of the project. In addition, documents and information about corruption in many stages of the FATHIH Project have been revealed. Therefore, we would like the Constitution to be opened on behalf of Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı in accordance with Article 106 of the 98th and 99th Anti-TBM Council. Fatma Nur Serter Ensar Öğüt Bihlun Tamaylıgil Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Riza Özturk Binnaz Earth Mehmet Şeker Uðurtuttan Mehmet Haberal Ali Serindağ Hurşit Sun Orhan Straight Müslim Sarı Ali Haydar Öçar İzzet Cetin İhsan Özkes Bkent Kuşoğlu Ali Demirçallı Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Oğuz Oyan Muharrem İnce The FATHIH Project was launched in 2010 by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to ensure the equality of opportunities in education and teaching and improve technology in our schools. The FATHIH Project is a project run by the Ministry of National Education and supported by the Ministry of Transport. The project was scheduled to be completed in four years, then extended to five years and then seven years later. As part of the FATHIH Project, it is stated that students will receive tablet computers and will definitely not be given textbooks to tablet computers. The FATHIH Project has been earmarked for $8 billion and $500m. As part of the FATHIH Project, some schools have had field network infrastructure. The wiring work in these schools is used to use non-technical materials, so the system is used to store information, access to the Internet and so on. Turns out he's not good enough for things. It is also known that interactive boards are malfunctioning, that they can't connect with tablet computers, that this was detected by the head of the National Education Ministry Education Information Systems Group, but that 84,921 damaged interactive boards were purchased so the project wouldn't be cancelled. Despite the completion of the FATH Project (FATIH) deadline as promised, only 7.6 per cent of local industry can be completed, local industry cannot be included in the project, all interactive boards are malfunctioning, the use of irregular and incomplete materials in field network infrastructure, the lack of interaction boards and tablet computers, the gene must be opened on behalf of the Constitutional Minister of Education Nabi Avcı because of the fact that many corruptions have been committed and the corruption has been silenced. It has been presented to your knowledge. The meeting dates of the clients will be determined later by the Council of Counsellors and will be submitted to your votes. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 19/05/2015 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafted (11/52) and (11/48) primary motions for the geneorization of the General Assembly's agenda on Thursday (March 19th 2015) will be taken to the 1st and 2th rankings of the "Special Aged Affairs" on Thursday (Today), and the talks on whether or not the 99th article of the Constitution shall be taken into the agenda. The agenda's 697, 696, 375, 288, 212, 695 and 686 drafting of the legislation in the section "Proposals and Other Trades From Commissions" shall be taken to the rankings of 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. On Thursday, March 19, 2015, until the meeting of the 686th legislature on Thursday (today), the completion of the talks until the completion of the talks, the completion of the daily schedule until the completion of the twenty-fourth-day programme in this merger, the completion of the day-to-day programme. On Friday (March 20, 2015), scheduled to meet earlier, It's recommended. In favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party, the first speaker is Mr. Ismail Kashdemir of Çanakkale. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0015par0296	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. I hereby salute our General Assembly, all of our MPs. Congressmans, we've moved up some international contracts with our group proposal. We're deciding not to work tomorrow if we're done with what we've been planning on doing on our agenda today. So, hopefully, with a hard work from our General Assembly, with a selfless work, we've decided not to work tomorrow if we're done with today's agenda. I'd like to thank all of our dedicated, contributing deputies very, very much right now. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 100th anniversary of the 18th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale Deniz, which we celebrated as of yesterday. The March 18th Canakkale Victory is a day when a nation is reborn from the ashes of a nation, on its knees, on its feet, and the roads leading to the state of the Republic of Turkey are paved with stones. I hereby remember the heroes of the victory of Çanakkale, our saints martyrs and veterans with gratitude, mercy, and gratitude. I hope the trust that they left us... the same spirit and faith that they gave them, the same determination and determination in their struggle, as their descendants today, as generations who understood them, we too struggle for the same spirit and excitement. On March 14th, the President came to Çanakkale again, as he always did every year. Mr. President Çanakkale, who always cared and supported Çanakkale, represented the spirit of Çanakkale, met with the Chanakkalites on March 14th. In the spiritual atmosphere of our saints martyrs and veterans, we have visited our martyrdom as we do every year in their spiritual peace, and once again in our prayers and thanks to our saints martyrs and veterans. As of yesterday (March 18th), on the 100th anniversary of the 18th March Sea Victory, our Prime Minister was also in Çanakkale; he met with the Çanakkales, and met with the descendants of the heroes of Çanakkale. With our Prime Minister and our ministers, with our representatives from all our party groups, with the Çanakkale, the descendants of the heroes of Çanakkale from the 81 provinces of our country, we remember them once again with mercy, gratitude, and prayer in front of the saints of the heroes of Çanakkale, the martyrs of Çanakkale, the heroes of our city, who are now out of Turkey. Once again, from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: The heroes of Çanakkale will always be an example to us, and we will always be their followers, and we will do everything in our power to be worthy of them. On this occasion, I would like to say once again that, as representatives of the spirit of Çanakkale, I would like to say that we, as descendants of today's future struggle, are particularly concerned about the Chanakkale Strait Bridge. As of today, the Çanakkale Strait Bridge, hopefully, will reach its tender by 2015 along with the highway. Once again, when I greet you with respect and respect, I remember our saints, martyrs and veterans with gratitude, gratitude, and prayers. May their souls rest in peace.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0016par0303	Thank you. Mr. Haydar Akar is the first speaker of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0017par0307	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Justice and Development Party on a group proposal from the AKP. This group proposal is one of the classic group suggestions we're used to. Every Thursday or Friday, this group is given suggestions, which are decided to take the weekend off, but as a threat, they bring the group proposals on Monday, Monday, Saturday, and put the new business program before the Assembly. In my four-year parliamentary experience, I found that the Justice and Development Party, the AKP, thinks that it can't plan the agenda of this Assembly, or that it's a threat to run it on weekends, so that the opposition can bend its back and stop it from working. We don't mind at all; we work here for 24 hours, Saturday, Sunday, we have no problems, but we have to plan right. You can't plan Turkey because you can't plan this plan right. You didn't plan this right, so you put Turkey in the biggest sea of debt in its history. You have brought Turkey to the greatest unemployment in its history because you failed to plan this plan correctly. You condemned pensioners to poverty because you couldn't plan it right. Since you failed to plan this plan correctly, you failed to solve the student housing problem in Turkey. Since you couldn't plan this correctly, you couldn't solve the problem of the four-year period I've been here. Since you failed to plan this plan correctly, you failed to solve the problems of those who were living in retirement as we call it. You made people poor because you couldn't do this plan right, you tried to manage poverty, you expressed welfare as a source of pride; on the one hand, you made them poor, and on the other hand, you made them unemployed. Look, why am I saying this? You brought a bag of laws, we're halfway through the bag of law, and now we're not discussing the bag of law. And before him ye made us work twenty-four hours, and entered at two in the day, and departed at eight and a half in the morning: but we came to the 67th commandment, and brought us back to the Commission. Now, I'm asking you: what are we going to do with 47 thousand teachers in the next bag? We're all going to approve the appointment of 47,000 teachers here together, aren't we? In fact, as the minister of national education said, we'll give him our motions to come up with the required number of 110,000, but we'll all approve the 47,000 together. Again, we talked bonzai here. What did we do with the bonza? Your Prime Minister is against the Republican People's Party bond everywhere, and he doesn't want it. We all agreed with the votes of other opposition parties. So what would we do if you could sit down with the opposition and have a conversation with the opposition, when something good happens to the public, in the bags, in the law, in the way that you don't give anything to those advocacy groups, in the media groups, or the advocacy groups, or the supporters in the bureaucracy, and we would have done better jobs, and we would have been able to offer better things to Turkey. But as in this group proposal, you made us work all morning because you couldn't plan -- sleep, stress -- our friends got sick, our friends got hit, everybody got sugar, everybody got blood pressure, but you ended up having to withdraw those laws. Couldn't we just sit down and talk about this and settle? Now you're doing it again. Look, last night, as of last minute, you attempted to commit an additive. What happened? It's a mess, we had to let it go. If you'd met with our groups before -- if it really was a need, if the government needed it, if we'd all decided together, which is why we're all here -- if you'd listened to us once, this Congress would have worked more efficiently. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0018par0317	Thank you. I don't think there's a speaker in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0019par0319	No, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0018par0320	The last speaker against him is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0020par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't speak against you this time, I'll speak in your favor. First of all, I'd like to thank the Deputy Chairman of Justice and Development Party for all the success wishes our party has made for the convention. The Nationalist Movement Party, which we will hold on March 21st -- just like its name -- will be -- will step forward in a brand-new way after March 21st, in a new way to serve Turkey, as it is called the Nevruz (the day) and as it is celebrated as a holiday in the Turkish world. First of all, I'd like to say no. I'm celebrating Nevruz Day and the Nevruz Day of the entire Turkish world today. My fellow lawmakers, I would like to thank the AKP Group and CHP Group, both of them, especially for setting this agenda this way because of our convention. Because starting tomorrow, our delegates will come to Ankara, and we'll see them off on Sunday. For him, this three-day relief was of great importance to our congress. So I'd like to thank you again. We'll discuss two genes, then we'll discuss Qatar, even though we hesitate. We think there's been a lot of trouble there. That's what we're going to do with our conversation. Other than that, talks will continue on the current Law Proposal 688 rows. We'll discuss two or three international contracts and close them if we can. I'm just saying good luck already. I offer you all respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0021par0330	Thank you. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As per the decision taken, we're moving on to "Builds on Special Agenda" on the agenda. We begin talks on the opening of a gene for Family and Social Policy Minister Ayşenur Islam (11/52) under the 1st part of this chapter, Istanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter and 21 lawmakers, claiming that some children registered in the ministry are missing and that they cannot identify how many children there are in these institutions. Government? Here. I'm not re-reading the motion because it's been printed and distributed before and read in today's merger of the General Assembly. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, this meeting will be promised to a member of the motionholders, a deputy member of the political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. I'm now reading the names of the members who have been quoted: Motion holder: İstanbul MP Binnaz İz. On behalf of the groups: İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serker on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Ruşar Demirel on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Avel Dedegil on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. On behalf of the government: Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur Islam. As you can see, all speakers and speakers are women. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] The first word is Mr. Binnaz Ürtük, the Istanbul MP, who has the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0022par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Hey, guys. Now, everything is great on paper in Turkey. For example, when I look at this children's issue on paper, I already write on the proposal -- we have children's homes, we have girls' homes, we have men's homes, we have love homes, we have care and we have social rehabilitation centers, there's protection, care and rehabilitation centers, so there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, Actually, we seem to be in an extraordinary position on paper. But, on the other hand, when you look at what's going on around here, what's going on, there are really serious problems. I mean, there's a big difference once, as the motion states, between all these homes, in foster homes, in love houses, etcetera, or children who stay there -- as far as I can tell -- and our congressman Nur Serter asked the Ministry, but the Ministry couldn't give a full answer. I mean, where did these kids go, where are they? Where does the difference come from in each of these institutions? We don't know that. Did they die or were they thrown out on the street? We have no idea what they are. Likewise, just as we have some institutions on paper, we have also signed all kinds of international agreements on child rights. On the other hand, our president, you know, has long suggested that every Turkish woman have three children, even five, if possible, so we have a child's policy. At the same time, this government is constantly highlighting the family, meaning that the Ministry was not named after the family at first, but was named after the Ministry when there was no family. In parentheses, let me tell you, this is a matter that all female organizations object to. Women's problems in Turkey have become so serious that they must have a ministry of equality. He's not just going to look at women's problems, he's going to look at groups that aren't equal. But it's a matter of parentheses. I mean, I just want to say that this society, so-called and so-called, is holding children in high esteem. There are institutions and many children are wanted, and the family is highlighted and so on. I remember sociology classes -- we went to school in high school -- the family wrote about parents and children. Now, children are part of the family, but in general, I really think the number of children destroyed in Turkey is incredible. Now, this is one of the serious problems with day care centres, dorms, labor homes and all the institutions that I just counted. When are these institutions being audited, who's overseeing them? Are these pre-reported inspections? Because we all know that we all remember from school, the principal will come to the inspector. It's called, "The school suddenly cleans up like this, and so on and so on, and so on. So if this is a preliminaries inspection, it doesn't mean anything, but if it's being audited, if it's being audited somehow, where are the audit reports? So if I were to ask, for example, where are the reports from the audits in these dorms? How am I supposed to find this? And what happened after the inspection? Did any of these reports mention any negativity? If there's been talk of negativity, we don't know much about what happened after that. Now, in these dorms and centers, from time to time -- we know it all the time from the media -- we're hearing reports that children are being harassed. It's more recent news like this. Not just girls, but boys. In fact, there was a story recently that froze your blood. In these dorms, older children not only molest young children, but also torture them. So that's another problem, in the same dorm, with kids of different ages -- eight or nine years old -- 16 years old -- living in the same dorm. 16-year-olds were much stronger and stronger than others, and it was a blood-cold story. Now, there's also the judicial phase of these abuses that Mr. Secretary has decided to intervene in the latest incident. Although that girl wasn't a girl who grew up in dorms, but how many people raped the 15-year-old girl, and the judge said, "Why didn't you resist?" In fact, I think the Ministry should be involved without waiting for the outcome, especially when it comes to children -- women's rapes, violence against women, in any case -- but especially when it comes to children, I think it has to happen. Now, in addition to these nests and so on and so forth, when you look at the condition of the children... the children of the street, for example. In Istanbul, it hurts, little girls, little boys, they sell tissues, they sell water on the highways, they sell flowers. The babies who are begging with their mother... I mean, we're supposed to care so much about children and family and so on, especially the AKP as a conservative power... but the streets - begging, begging -- they don't pass through the cold, trembling babies in the arms of their mothers. Children working in sub-stairs workshops, children growing up on the streets, babies growing up on the streets -- girls working in household chores, girls working in farms, and girls not being sent to school -- still exist, although the rate of reading and writing has risen. So we have no idea how many children are on the street, how many children are begging with their mother, selling things on the street? What is being done about them? Nothing's been done. It's still been on the streets for years. There's no statistics. Likewise, the statistics on these children's dorms are low. We know that children who grow up in these dorms are left on the doorstep when they're 18. What's happening to them? So the Ministry or the dorms, they follow these kids, these kids? Gene, as far as I'm concerned in the media, especially because girls tend to sex work, because they can't do anything else, boys sleep in markets, etcetera, and so on, so on and so forth, if these are foster homes, are they being raised? Does the Ministry really do anything to get a job for them when they're 18, make sure they're a good citizen, do they have any programs? We don't know that. So I think that all of this is very important. On the other hand, for example, the issue of education for disabled children... because there are different kinds of disabled children- how many educational institutions are there for disabled children in Turkey? So what I want to say in a nutshell is, when it comes to philosophy in this country, we say, oh, our children, our young people, the future of Turkey, the future of Turkey. But when we get to the bottom of it, what we really do for these children is extraordinary. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0023par0364	Thank you, too, Mr. Earth. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter will speak. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0024par0368	Mr. President, I intend to bring up very different and conflicting answers from each other, especially despite various requests from the Ministry of Family and Social Security regarding child care centres and protected children. First of all, one of the most important, fundamental tasks of the Ministry of Family and Social Security is no doubt the care, education, protection of our children entrusted to him. It's a reality that we all know that children who have been abused, abused, homeless, bad habits in the streets, should first be in the Ministry's field of duty. Now, while the Ministry is carrying out its work, it is being carried out by departments of the National Directorate of Children's Services. What are these units? In fact, we see that a very large spectrum is covered in the construction of the Ministry. These include children's homes, girls' homes, children's homes, men's homes, girls' homes, love houses, and care centres, care and rehabilitation centres, children's and youth centres, or YOGEM centres, under a separate title again. These eight units aim to protect, care for children, and, of course, to be raised psychologically healthy, self-restraint individuals. Now, we're looking at the total of all of this in terms of its quota, capacity, again in line with the Ministry's data -- the sum of these eight units that I've counted is 17.651. I mean, what is it? Turkey has a total capacity of 17,651 people for children in need of protection or in need of help. So what is the number of people registered to benefit from these services? We see that this is 15,752. Now, friends, Turkey has a very serious child problem, very big child abuse, child abuse, violence, abuse, and children living on the street. Despite all this reality, I think it's very remarkable that these units are currently unable to even fill the capacity of 17,651 people, and that their total capacity is serving under about 2,000, 1,899 people. There's a conclusion here. The conclusion is that the ministry lacks realistic, efficient structure in entrusting children in need of public protection to the Ministry's protection, and the ministry lacks the means to reach children in this situation, or can't use them effectively enough, because there's a reality that the eye sees, even as we walk down the street, that we see reality. Especially in large cities and Istanbul, when our cars are stuck in traffic, and when they are stuck, they are the young children and young people who are starting to become threatening for some, who wipe out their windows and jump on cars to get a dime. These are the realities of the eye. Now I'm very curious: How many children can the Ministry see and protect, for example, if one day, they come to Hosli, for example, and they sit there, and they wait? It's very simple. I'm talking about a point. Dozens, dozens of them, in this case. Now, I'm going to pass, friends, and maybe there's another more serious, more serious situation -- the difference between the number of children who appear to be registered in institutional statistics and the number of children who are actually cared for. Now, just when you're outside these rehabilitation centers, even when you accept their numbers as temporary and ignore them, there's a difference between the number of children registered in girls' homes, children's homes, boys' homes, and the number of children who are actually considered. Now, we've given various questions about this. An interesting thing happened: after the first question motion was made, friends, statistics changed, the statistics published by the Ministry changed, and the number of people registered in the institution was removed from statistics. Now, after this date, we can no longer see the number of people registered in the institution. So if you look at what institutions, which are registered to this institution, but are not actually in the institution, what are they doing? We see various criteria. There are explanations that are recorded and do not exist in the institution. For example, some of them are in the hospital, so they're being treated, some of them in dorms, college dorms, some of them in private boarding schools, some of them in boarding schools. Okay, we understand these, but look, here we are again in a very interesting situation, where the Ministry has described the number of people who are registered and who are not actually available as 3,323. Where are they staying, what are they doing? The answer we were given is 3,055 children, 3.055. So there's no record of what 268 kids are, what they're doing, where they're actually staying. That's not the end of it, guys. At least in public institutions, from the moment these children were cut off from the institution for employment, we see that a special arrangement has unfortunately not been made and has not been used effectively until today. Right now, we have 4,251 young people who have come to the point of being cut off from the institution and are waiting for a job. Only 215 of them are given additional economic support. Now, then I'll ask what's the point. What's the point of training all these guards, you know, protecting them? What's the point of protecting these kids all those years, if you're just 215 out of 4,251 young people who've been cut off from the institution, and he's doing 290-300 lira a month? Unfortunately, there's an environment in our country where there's a threat to him from the moment he's outside the door. So that's just my job, and I'll put them to bed, and I'll lose some of them. I care very much about the way these kids offer special arrangements for their employment for their lives, and I think it needs to be done immediately. Children sent to the family, friends are a separate tragedy. A family is paid for per child. It's close to $500 or $600 compared to the boy's level of education. Some families, as a protective family, take two children, three children, get off easy on the money of those kids they take, either don't send them to school or they really make them into slaves to abuse, rape, violence. So...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0025par0379	Go on, it's not over.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0024par0380	It's not over, is it? I'm surprised, too.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0025par0381	Mr. President, did you give the clerk ten minutes?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0024par0382	Not ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0026par0383	I'm setting him up now. We'll give you another ten minutes, and for some technical reason, we're sorry.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0024par0385	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0026par0386	Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0024par0387	Now, this is a very serious and important situation to consider. Look, the child who now attended higher education was given $658 per child per child between January 2014 and June. Here are 500-550, a good amount of support for children who continue elementary school. Now, are these being used in good faith or not? How will this be followed? Who's gonna do it? When this isn't being followed, won't the comeback be against the child, not in favor of the child? We have some concrete complaints. For example, a family, you know, said he was a relative, took two kids. Believe me, there are families who take two children or three children because they're brothers, but those children are not being properly trained, nor are they actually being treated as human beings. So, then, the Ministry is only responsible for tracking and monitoring these children outside of routine work. So, are there any surveillance and surveillance? Yes, it is, but it's done so loose and so sparse that perhaps, as Mr. Binnaz Earth just mentioned before the inspection schools, the processes of which these controls may not fully reveal the facts, and many children suffer more than that. Now, dear friends, valued lawmakers; look, there are 712 children registered in day care centres and foster homes, while the actual number of children is 460, so the difference between registered and actually looked at is 252. There are 1,184 children registered in day care centres, while the actual number of children is 901, and the difference is 283. There are 2,014 children registered in men's homes, actually 1,201, difference 813. The difference between a child-raising home -- let me just say -- is that it's registered in 217 verbs, 694 in love houses. The difference between what's registered and what's looked at in the care and social rehabilitation centers is 457. I'm not making this up, these are the answers to the question motions. The difference in numbers is 47. The difference in protective care and rehabilitation centers is 308. Now, we're asking: what's this difference, where does it come from? That's the difference, you know, when some of these kids are sent there, sent to some foster homes, some of them are treated in hospitals, and they're categorized and evaluated, it's a pity that they're showing a discrepancy in themselves again. Now, this is a very important thing, because really, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is also a family institution for these children, the family of the child, these are the centers that I just counted. He's a loving, caring, caring, caring, raising him as an individual on his own feet in the future, not only that, but a family who's given him a job to stand on his own two feet so that he can stand up to the burden of life. Isn't this an area where our family structure is actually reflected in our warm, caring, caring, caring family structure, and these departmental units? Then aren't these children the Ministry's own sons? So, how does he keep track of them, how he protects them, and not know enough about where these missing children are doing, making it necessary to re-examine the Ministry, my fellow lawmakers? This is indeed a very important issue for Turkey's future. Look, what I'm very uncomfortable about, and I'm sorry, is that, unfortunately, statistically, an attempt to close these facts has also been launched. I've said it before, and I repeat, and I care a lot, and we asked, the number of children who are actually being cared for by the number of registered children. Well, after a while, if he feels the need to eliminate the number of children recorded in statistics, then isn't that what they're trying to hide? Why do you hide something? He saves it to cover up his mistake. And I'm saying that if we don't cover up the mistakes, if we cover up the mistakes -- of course, we may have flaws, of course, lacks, of course, but each of these covers cost thousands of children their lives. It is the ministry's primary and most important duty to maintain the lives of those children entrusted to the state. Dear friends, the Ministry must undoubtedly show the necessary love, attention, and protection for the children he protects in these various units, as well as have the same sensitivity for children on the street, children who are subjected to violence near the family. Now, we shouldn't have to be sad to read about our children's lives in the newspapers, how many of our children's lives, how many of them, who have been exposed to the press from time to time, whose family has been abused and raped even during a very small baby age. If there is a structure that has a very serious agency, such as the Ministry of Family and Social Security, which has very important employment potential, that has a large number of trained experts in our country, then of course we have to question why these violent children were taken under the protection of the Ministry without seeing the violence in some European countries. The ministry is not a child welfare ministry because the Ministry is a ministry based on the family. Make children. It's easy to say, friends, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not going to be 2, it's not going to be 3; it's not going to be 3; it's not going to be 4, it's going to be 4. Give me the money, give me 300, 400, 500, 600, per child. Is that it? Is that the way he sees the kid? That's not enough. What needs to be done here is to provide our children with a human right to live, a human right to live, a right to education, and an approach to family warmth and compassion because the Ministry is a Ministry of Family Affairs. So, whatever's missing from this, whatever's wrong with it, it's a mistake, of course, to make mistakes, but to block them out of the way of investigation is to be the shareholder of this mistake. Therefore, I wish that the motion for the geneorization that I have submitted should be accepted, and that the situation would be revealed in its full nudity, creating a more qualified habitat for our children in need of protection and protection. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0027par0396	Thank you, Mr. Serker. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel will speak. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0028par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have pledged to express our party group's views on this gene question about our children who are in need of protection in our country, whether or not they are able to do so. I give you all my regards again. Of course, it's about children in need of protection, children under state protection, we did a general interrogation as a party in December at the budget speech, and we raised a lot of questions to the Minister about the fate of children under state protection who were raised in foster homes and then joined social life. But just as we have not been able to answer those questions, our verbal questions, so far, we have not been able to answer our written motions. In fact, the Ministry does not respond not only to this issue but also to many issues of its own interest. But it turns out some things aren't swept under the carpet, they're not covered in blankets. Not a day goes by and we don't have to talk about the victims on the news. First of all, it's important to emphasize that being under state protection is not a child's choice, it's an obligation. As some men and women who claim to be parents, we make this decision and bring our children into the world. And then maybe because of some of our own weaknesses, maybe as a result of fate -- maybe deaths, maybe diseases, maybe economic inadequacies -- children are not going to choose, but as a necessity, they're going to be protected by the state. Sometimes they are called orphaned children. In fact, they are not orphaned children. These are the children of the nation, these are the children of the state. You know, it's always, what's this state? It's really us, it's you, it's me, it's everybody here, it's our nation, 77 million. None of us observe these children when we have to be each other's guardians. You know there's a 2005 Children's Protection Act in which children in our country need protection should be cared for and trained in social services and have a profession. In reference to this law, we asked Mr. Secretary questions during budget talks, and I would like to briefly remind you of what we asked during that budget meeting. There have been reports of abuse, harassment, rape, and abuse by people who have been put into protective custody of children who have been placed in social services, who have been placed in social services, and have been subjected to protection and care services of the state-guarded children at times. After the incidents, statements are being made that the necessary investigations have been carried out by the person involved, the institution or the Minister and the minister, and that all of us are concerned that there are children on this bench at this time, and I regretting again that even as we form these sentences, they are being beaten, tied, harassed, taken to other houses, taken to clean places at nights. We were feeling it, there was press coverage, but something else happened last week, and everyone wanted to get rid of themselves for six years. The ministry issued this statement: "This investigation is being conducted, and it was finished in 2012. The director of the institution gave a deadline until 2013. There was no consensus between the Ministry and the director as to how long this was going on. What happens when news like that comes out? When news like this comes out, children who have been victimized are being distributed to other dorms, they are being shut down, they are being suspended, they are being investigated, or they are suspended because of social pressure, as in the last instance. So I'd like to ask you, what happens when you distribute these children to other dorms and nests? It's the same thing if you transfer a wounded tissue to another location. Where they go with their injuries, they either do an example of the rape, or they're exposed to similar abuses at the institution they go to because they're well-known. Just our girls? No. That's how our boys are, and the only thing the government can do about our kids is, as far as we can see, just change their institutions. So, what's with the changing of the children's institutions? Nothing. Some of them, however, are referred to as the rehabilitation center, as in Elazig. It's a question of who rehabilitated who. If the name of an institution is rehab, the people at that institution must have specialized in it. As a matter of fact, we asked at the budget meeting, and then I gave Mr. Secretary some questions. No doubt he didn't answer, and he still doesn't. ▪ Is there a standard for employees in these institutions? What's the occupational distribution of these things? What do they do, what qualities? Some of these institutions are unknown, even their parents don't know where their children are, why are you hiding this? But, I also said one more thing that day, and I said, "You can change the name of the institution any way you want, the house of love, the house of the bug, but our daughters in these institutions especially have a change of address." They're going out of the house of love to the shelter, Mr. Secretary, you know that, don't you? He didn't say anything, nor did he take precautions. Unfortunately, that's the case. In the name of the state's protection, many of these children, which we call "under state protection," are being led to abuse and unfeeling by executives and educators, who are supposed to be the eyes and ears of the state, are slipping into other places with the first feeling of compassion. Finally, where most of them go is either shelters or places we can't even imagine. In this framework, we also asked: What do you do with public social services that provide protection and care for children and to bring standards to the qualifications and qualifications of employees in these institutions? Are the qualifications and quality of the services provided at social services being measured? What do you do with children who have been subjected to abuse, harassment, and rape during the service they receive from the organizations, and what measures or measures may be taken to prevent the trauma and poor practices of children? Children who lost their lives during the service they received from social services -- who are they, why, do you have a study to make sure it never happens again? Do you have any strategic efforts by the government to prevent this from happening again, for children who have fled or been kidnapped? Do you perform effective monitoring, auditing, and processing of social services agencies and employees' services? Do you do a community work on children who receive services from social services to improve social awareness? Obviously, as none of this has been answered -- we've said it before -- since the mentality hasn't changed, the outcome is the same and inevitable. Especially for our daughters, I repeat, these children are women who are nominated to be the mother of our children who will shape the future of society. How much are you preparing for life, Mr. Secretary? It's certain you haven't prepared, but do you have any work to prepare? It's not just renting buildings, decorating buildings with beautiful furniture. You know -- all international measurements also show -- love and compassion are effective in children's mental development, even intelligence levels. It doesn't happen just by performing mass ceremonies with these children, rubbing heads at ceremonies attended by the Prime Minister, the President, or the first lady. There's no day in this country where there's no child molestation, no rape. In our conversation that day, we highlighted one more thing, and we said, "You've published a regulation, and you've had a vision of getting a job based on it. Before you were 18 years old, you required two years of service from these institutions before you became an adult. Please remove these two years' terms, Mr. Secretary, this is a very dangerous thing. I gave an example. ▪ Are you going to leave a 17-year-old girl who was raped unemployed? When a 17 - year - old boy had been raped, we didn't get any response, saying, "I wish I had been raped when I was younger. Is this better?" We're officially playing three monkeys, and this is a bad picture of our social conscience. I said, there's been no development in this photograph. Oh, the Ministry sometimes shares some photos, like the ones in the bag with the severed beginnings. But the Ministry never makes any improvements to these children -- I repeat, not a choice -- as a necessity. We also asked, "How many children have been removed before the age of 18, and what is their reason?" As you can see, we've asked the Minister and the institutions in his person many times -- verbally or in writing -- to answer questions about this matter. You can't ignore anything by not answering. The ones you ignore happen in the press, in different social places, in front of everyone, even in our eyes. Boys... they're on the run, they're on the street after they're 18, and you're encouraging them to be dads in the future. Now that you've brought back a bill, the law of promoting marriage. Now, remember the Turkish films, you know there's a pattern called Turkish film. A man and a woman meet running under a tree, hands meet, and then write a happy ending. Actually, the movie doesn't end, that's when it starts. But for what? For real life. In real life, when those hands meet, the movie begins, and the aspect of life that seems to be happening after that. Now you have prepared a dowry package for those who wish to marry, so that these hands may be joined together under those trees or in different places. Don't save money, don't save money in the piggy bank, don't pile up in the shoebox, okay, save up in the bank, yeah. But then what happens in these marriages? In order for children to be born in these marriages, we pay women $400, $600, $300. You say it's an insult to women, a contempt for motherhood or fatherhood. It can't be as irrational as measuring it with money, but you're doing it, too. Do you ever question the fate of these children? Do you have a surveillance, evaluation unit on children raised in dorms? After the ruling passed in June 2011, you arranged different bags, bills for different administrative mechanisms of your ministry, but you never had an effort to figure out what these children are, how they live, how we can watch them, how we can evaluate them. I'm guessing you're about to come out here and give me a number, they've got assignments after state protection, you know, public service, we've got this many kids in place. Yes, you've issued an appointment for about 2,000 or so children, but how many of them have started, so give us the number. We've also asked you the question proposal, we haven't received an answer yet. If you agree to draw lots and make appointments so that they can begin their mission, you're very wrong, many of those children still haven't begun. Some of them couldn't even afford to get a report. We've published a general report, no money will be asked. You say, hospitals want money, they want money for a medical report. There are children who can't be appointed prisoners for some minor crimes they've been involved in, Mr. Secretary, can you tell me how many of them are there? But if you just think of them as numbers, we've made laws for the children in state protection, and we're taking them in public. If you walk around in public with the numbers and the rules, then you're out of reality, that's not the truth. Most of these kids didn't get to work. You're going to do the same thing for the disabled in the coming days, and they can't start much of it, but if you still think you're making fun of the memory of this community by saying that, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, it's a ridiculous state, so you humiliate the state with your hand, with your tongue. The state of the Republic of Turkey is not in a position to take care of these children; the Republic of Turkey is not in a position to starve its people; if there is justice, justice, equality, social state consciousness, all of these children can be looked at, you can do it quickly and very little by taking urgent measures about them. For example, a group of them, the associations, the platforms they set up, they requested to meet you last week, and the answer from your chief of staff is: "The election is coming, you can't reach the Minister anymore." I'm not saying that, your chief of staff told you that. Neither does your undersecretary, nor does anyone see him, nor does your concerned head of the department, and I just got here, and I don't know what's going on. You know, of course, I'm just reminding you here. One more thing, you can't make anyone believe that you've been served well here by sharing images of these houses. Those houses are luxury, and I've traveled some of them, and we're all traveling through the homes, the day care centers, the day care centers. The view we're seeing... yeah, you're giving rents that don't make sense, and you know who you're renting from, just like your own Ministry building. You haven't even explained your department's rent yet. There are houses of love that you rent in a similar manner, small apartments that you rent in a similar way. For how much, you think you're keeping these kids alive in these houses with the most amazing furniture you can't explain who you're renting from. Mr. Secretary, we have a very well-known saying that even if you put it in a golden cage like a bird in a golden cage, people want to be put in love, attention, and human beings. There's nothing you can do if your executives in your relevant institutions don't have any awareness about it. Hurry up and train these people. For example, you gave a number in response to a question motion: we trained 227,126 public employees. Mr. Secretary, do any of these 227,126 public employees work in your own institutions? In particular, did you hire employees in love homes, day care centers, rehabilitation centers? What's more, the people in your ministry, the people in the ministry, have you trained them? Have you told them how to talk to these children, how to empathize, how to understand what's wrong with these children? We have to. We need to know that one breath from now on, one step from here, none of us know. Yes, we're at the head of our children today, God bless everyone, but there's no guarantee. None of us know what our children or grandchildren will be tomorrow. If our children lose their sanity, their financial condition worsens, who are we going to trust them to? To the government. If you're the government's hand, and you're the government's eye, and you're not touching these kids, and you're not hearing these kids, and you're not seeing them, what do you think they're doing when they're making a press statement on the streets? Burn themselves? In Antalya, a girl thinks she's going to burn herself, because of her abuse, I have her information, we've been talking on the phone for days. Don't do it. She's got a 16-year-old girl who's been molested, seven-year-old girl. Now this girl, she's 23, and she's being harassed, and she can't reach you, any of you, the powers, anyone. No one in charge can reach any of you, no matter what his name is, no matter what his position is. Mr. Secretary, what you're doing is a very important task. The field of your mission is a very sacred thing, social policy. Those kids want to see you as parents, sexes don't matter. He wants to see you as a refuge port. They just want you to listen to them. They want you to hear their problems, hear them. Hear them not only with your ear, but with your heart, and do something for those children before it's too late. Because they're missing. You know where those kids are taken and worked at night, we get goosebumps, don't we? Can you guess where 16-17-year-old girls were taken from their sorority at night? We all guess, don't we? When it is called the protection of the state, it is not only the children in the nests, but also the prisons. The government has to protect the safety of those children, the integrity of their bodies. Prisons are for those kids to be rehabilitated. Is this how you do rehab? No, it shouldn't. No advanced, modern, truly advanced, universal-valued state should have these. Of course there are things that can't be prevented. There may be unstoppable conditions that stem from human weakness, from the special circumstances of personnel in our institutions, but Mr. Secretary, your government has been in the classroom for 12 years. As a minister, a woman, a mother, and a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, everyone has a request: Listen to these children. I repeat: listen not only with the ear, but with the heart, and do according to what is in your hearts, not with what is written on the papers. As my party, we're going to vote positive on the gene. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0029par0426	Thank you. Congressmans, we're having a historic moment right now, and I'd like to share it with you: there are more women MPs in this room than there are male lawmakers. (Applause) The seats may be empty, but hopefully there will be more women in the 25th term. İstanbul MP Alek Dedegil will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0030par0431	My dear fellow lawmakers, I present to you the Republican People's Party's motion to ask questions about our Minister of Family and Social Policy. In the beginning of my words, I salute you, the high council. First of all, I'd like to correct: Republican People's Party orators, who have a proposal, have always said that the Ministry of Family and Social Security had been reported in this way. The ministry you've given us is called Family and Social Policy. Now, here, as the AK PARTY governments, of course, I don't want to count the work we've done in this area, the steps we've taken in this area, the reforms we've done. This, frankly, is going to take a lot of time, but I recommend to my very valuable fellow lawmakers who are very interested and who are interested in all the details one by one, that our ministry's operational report for 2014 has been published, and in international studies it's already on the air as a reference document, which they can take advantage of. Of course, I would also like to point out that at the very beginning of these reforms -- even though we don't count any of them -- we're talking about a government that we've taken on the basis of the Constitution, our current law, and our policy on children. Now, we didn't want to take too much time, so let's wrap it up. In any case, Mr. Minister will have important statements regarding the facts regarding the technical, numeral, or efficiency, or part of the genome. I just wish, in all this time, there have been many motions written or spoken about, questions asked, written and verbal answers given by our Minister, and I wish they had been looked at. Now, one group says: "These have not been answered. " Our other political party removes the answers and brings a review of the data. I don't get it either, I'm looking at a party, and there's no answers, and the other party has created a gene question through the answers, and it's obviously not possible to understand this contradiction. Now, of course, why is there a gene when Parliament is working with such a busy agenda on a matter that has been asked many times, answered over and over again? I believe there's a desire to run an election here. And that, of course, and I honestly don't think it's appropriate here. Because there are some very important laws that people expect of us, and it's not fair to bring back something that's been discussed and explained over and over again when we should be working on them. But, of course, people know this truth, and they're watching these sessions, and I think on June 7th, they'll reassure the current government about it, and maybe this time, people will give the opposition a gene, because we're bored. Now, dear friends, our children who are in need of protection in the ministry's institutions are entrusted to us, not just to us, but to everyone in this room, to everyone in this community. We are all responsible for the children of all of us, and we are responsible for not needing protection, and praise the people, that the state may be exalted. Each individual is entrusted to me. I don't think it's fair that you criticize a political concept in this way. We, the AK PARTI government, touch society, do all the social, economic work we can. There may be flaws, there may be no shortages, there is no shortage of anything. Making a claim is not a sentence for a sane government like ourselves, of course. But what is it? I don't think it's fair to discuss these flaws, to develop these models, to ignore everything that's been done together when we can do politics together, and to share them here. Now, we have children left in these institutions. Of course, you have the numbers, you have the statistics, you have the data, and the Minister will be involved. Do any of you remember the previous conditions of the children who stayed in these institutions? Does anyone remember the terms of 2001? So there was talk of children being beaten with a hose or, you know, children having different problems, and I think there was talk of old Turkey. Now, at the point where we're living right now, in 2015, I'll take that as a very unfair and unrealistic statement. We're talking about the issue that's being discussed right now, of course, in our institutions, there are children who aren't actually registered, and my friends, the ruling and opposition MP, know very well that they have technical and spiritual reasons. So there are children who are allowed to stay in those dorms, children who have been forced into crime, psychologically disturbed, children who need to see their parents more often, children who are sent off, sent on vacation, or hospitalized, but my opposition congresswoman friends know very well what's the difference between the actual situation, but they're interested; I'm still pleased, they've gone to the trouble, they've asked; it's important. But I'm waiting for one thing, how many times did they leave, when was the last time they left? For example, I'd like to ask our high-profile teacher, which foster home, which home, which house of love did you last go to? How many times have you been there? Did you listen to the kids over there? Did you get up and pay a visit to our Ministry about the problems coming from there? I have a suggestion. Did you say? Did you give me a hand? I don't know, maybe they'll answer that themselves. Now, of course, they have a record of all children who have been granted protection, precautionary measures. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a serious state, and we, all of us, are proud of it. The description of an unknown child, such offering, harms the children themselves and the families of these children. I mean, we're saying tough sentences because we're going to do politics here, that we're going to give our own voters some messages before the election, but at the end of that, we don't think about where these sentences go and destroy things, because there's only one place we're focused on, and we're going to be able to send you a little bit more messages from that podium. Now, I don't think that's fair either. Let's go, let's go together. Look, I'm making a very clear suggestion here that, as a member of the ruling party, I have some very valuable fellow lawmakers here, and I don't separate them together as a power-mutation, so let's go together, even if you want to form diverse groups, these kids are protected by the state according to the age groups, they're being looked at, let's visit one institution, let's talk to the other group, let's sit down with our Minister, we'll sit down with one flaw, we'll argue about it, and we'll try to build the best model. I mean, I don't think it's fair to do politics over orphans and through children all the time, to do politics over women who are victims all the time, and frankly, I don't think that's very fair. So if there's a situation as dire as you're describing, I think the method is to do something that's focused on the solution and contributes to the solution. So from here, it's hard, it's extremely negative, and it's all done, it's all good work, it's a form that nullifies all of it, and I don't think it's fair. Now, dear MP, are there any children who have left any institution without permission? Yes, I do. I just told you, a lot of these kids are already in a lot of trouble. They've been forced to commit crimes, they've had different habits, they've lived on the streets. We don't expect these kids to adapt immediately to these institutions that need to be run away from their families and under certain discipline, where they'll immediately adopt and adopt a new model of behavior in accordance with all the rules, which is not true. We also know that children like this sometimes come out of these places without permission, where they stay, where they're protected. But what's the real philosophy behind this? All these institutions are run by an open door system. It's not a prison, so it's an open-door system. He can go out, he can go to school, he can go to school, he can go to a family visit; when he leaves, for example, for five days, he can go to his family for 15 days. I don't think it's fair that all of the children who were not physically present at the time were put into the missing child, the unknown child, the child who was never followed. So our job here is not just to tell people, but to tell each other the truth. These are all our eyeball institutions. Look where we've come from. I said it in part of my speech. Is it all over? Of course it's not over. Aren't there any shortages? Of course you do. But to ignore everything that's happened, to draw a picture of disaster, and to share it with people like this, I don't think it's very helpful for you either, and it won't be. Now, if there's a model here that you know about children who are having trouble adapting, children who are acting without permission from the open door system, if there's a more connected, happier lifestyle in those institutions -- and there's a lot of models that we're working on -- please come to the table and contribute. Let's all work together, we care about these things. Now, I'd like to refer again to the children who are not in care, in fact, in the organization, as a reason for the gene. It's not always easy for these kids to deal with kids who have been traumatized and what's happened to them alone, away from their families and in a completely alien social and physical environment, it's not something that every child can accomplish. So either they need to be given extra support in particular, or they need to be a little more tolerant in their family stays. These kids are a little different from accepting the rules, predicting the consequences of their actions. Just as we've done some very special work on highly gifted children, if we've studied them, if we've studied them, these kinds of studies are going on about children who need special attention, and they need to be kept and nurtured spiritually and physically in the open-door system, in the way that the institution should be over-disciplined, but in the open-door system. For example, we have children who are addicted to drugs, we have children who are prone to crime, we have children who are involved in crime and who have created a social environment in that criminal environment. I'm sure you have something to say about that, too. But it's positive, it's a solution, it's a contributor. I find it unfair to have an understanding that nullifies all actions. Now, what is this, then? I mean, they're just incomplete, I'd like to erase everything that's been done, and I'd say individual tragedies from time to time, look, we're very sad about those things, of course, but there's a language that's been developed over them, and there's an opposition that makes me think of one thing: I want to walk, I want to deal with it, but I have to deal with an opposition that's attracted to me, and I have to deal with an opposition that's trying to stop me. That's a lot of baggage for me. In all modern societies, opposition is a little more constructive, the opposition is taking on a slightly lower function with proposals of power's burdens, proposals for solutions, and, of course, controls. Now, of course, I trust Mr. Secretary with all this work, I trust personally, as a member of parliament, as a citizen, I trust our Minister, and I find it unfair to talk so hard about a minister who works 24/7. Precious speakers also said: "We do not know what is being done. We don't know if that's what he's doing. These aren't closed studies, which are pretty straightforward. Official reports are being published, all institutions are open, 24 hours open. If you stopped your car in front of any agency on your way to your constituency here, maybe we could talk about something much nicer here, maybe you'd make a lot more positive contributions, but you're not doing that. I don't know how hard it is to take two or three of the most negative numbers out of the question proposals and make politics out of them, and keep everyone's agenda like this! And there's one thing that I'm so worried about: I mean, why are we so uncomfortable with this idea of family? Family's a big deal. The family is a roof for all of us. So we all need a family. I don't understand why it's so uncomfortable to have a family, to have a healthy family, to have some social, economic support in that family. So when you're constantly talking about a woman's problem, you're comparing a woman to a woman's family, and you're making it look like she's being imprisoned, and the family's being put in a different place. It doesn't exist because there's no such policy, but where you're looking, I don't know how you see it. We don't know about the inspections. You're saying. I'm sure the Minister will share them with this General Assembly. It's being audited, believe me, all kinds of audits, and the state's first partner, the NGOs that should be at the beginning, are involved. Civil society institutions are in this control, and the opposition is in this control, and the government itself is in its control. Every member of the ruling party that you see here is all part of this audit, and they all go there and they all come and share what they see. I wish you the same. I, on this occasion, thank you. It's a gene that will allow us to explain things, to share them with our people again. I ask the Minister for patience in his successful work and say that we, the Justice and Development Party, are behind both our Minister and all these social policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0031par0456	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0031par0458	What is your request, Mr. Serker?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0459	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0031par0460	I'm supposed to put it on the record, which tease?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0461	Sure, there's a lot of teasing. Once, he accused us of abusing women, child abuse, that we were uncomfortable with the concept of family, and that we personally never went anywhere, anywhere, to a foster home...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0031par0462	Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0465	Yes, Mr. Dedegil, you're a congressman I love and admire very much, but today you've had a conversation full of trustees, I'd say I'm really surprised. First of all, to accuse the Republican People's Party of child abuse as a member of a family, children and women abuse party is a clear proof of how you can't really see certain facts because the Justice and Development Party has been a party that has been led from the very first day by women abuse and child abuse.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0033par0467	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0034par0468	Don't lie!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0469	That's how he keeps it going in politics. But he didn't go anywhere, he didn't see. I've expressed concrete data here. The data I'm asking for is based on official statistics and information from the Ministry. You wouldn't expect me to go to a foster home and take a look at the number of children registered and actually going on. Only I know where I've been in my life.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0035par0471	Talk about convincing rooms, persuasion rooms!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0472	I've never been the kind of person who's trying to promote it, to get political credit from here. We've never been offended by the concept of family, we've never reduced the family in any conversation, on the contrary, we've stressed the importance of family, but if you want an example of those institutions, you'll look at the newspapers today and understand how a child has a broken arm in the Antalya Yeniköy House of Love.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0036par0473	That's false information, that's false information, that's false information.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0474	And it doesn't mean anything if you scream in there. Speak according to your manners. Thank you, I salute you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0037par0477	You're in the convincing rooms!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0478	Shut up, what a room for persuasion!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0038par0479	Mr. New...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0037par0480	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0032par0481	Use your head, it's not convincing! Are you still there? You're still there.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0038par0482	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0037par0483	My daughters curse you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0038par0484	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0039par0485	Go out there and talk, come out, don't talk.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit02spe0038par0487	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. New, can't you hear me? [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0038par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/52) We continue talks on whether or not the primary motion for the geneorization will be raised. The government is here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0040par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0038par0005	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0040par0006	Mr. President, Mr. Orator says he's just received an answer to the motion. He says he can't get the others; it's inconsistencies. And I'm the one who said he couldn't answer the question motions and said those words, so I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0038par0007	The session has changed, but since I promised you, I would like to call you to the stand. Two minutes...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0040par0010	Mr. President, thank you. If I read the questions I didn't get an answer from, I probably wouldn't have enough of these two minutes, but there's at least 50 questions on this paper, these questions are at least ten questions from five of them. If anyone's interested, there's a list of questions on my personal site, on the website of my name in Congress that I don't get answers in various places. There's no rule that they're responding to all the motions. The government's biggest problem is that it feels responsible only for making the law and does not allow it to be audited and has not responded to the motions. And here I said with examples, I didn't get an answer to my verbal or written question motions. But there's a saying here, and I'm going to remind you of the sentences of executives who have been in the various mechanisms of the Justice and Development Party sitting right here, because the speaker says: "Where do the sentences you make go, what pain is it that you talk about without thinking about?" I ask you -- you know who said those sentences -- who went and who got hurt? We put you in human form and made a law. You told the disabled by one of your deputies, remember where he went? Take your mother with you. Do you remember where she went to that moment you called her? Do you remember the minister who said, "Let the earth feed your eyes?" You have an old Minister of Health who says, "Do you remember where this is going?" Do you remember your party manager, who said: "The open-headed woman is a house without curtains"? I don't know where those words are going, I don't know the eggs in the trunk of your back, I don't look at the pumpkin on your tail, I don't know the opposition, or rather I don't want to speak to the National Movement Party or a preacher of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0015	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0042par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0017	Dear Earth...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0042par0018	Mr. President, I've made this family matter clear to you, the family matter. I want word on that.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0019	On what grounds do you want to speak?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0042par0020	You don't care about the family. He said, "Why don't you care about the family?" I'm not interested in family matters, especially in the name of the Ministry.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0021	He didn't mention your name.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0043par0022	Let him explain for a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0042par0023	He didn't, but I was the one who said it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0024	He didn't mention your name, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0042par0025	But I'm the one who said it, he doesn't have to mention my name.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0041par0026	Okay. Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0044par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm the one who said it, and I've said it on various commissions. I find it important for him to fix it. Now, look, when I just spoke about the name of this Ministry, I said it was wrong to have the definition of family there. From time to time, the AKP's friends give examples of Europe, sir, there's also this Europe, and there's the other issue in Europe. I don't know any European countries, or women's ministry of equality, in the name of such a Ministry. Women's organizations insist on it. Now, family is, of course, one of the most important institutions in every society, but it's not the government's job to protect the family. If you want to protect the family, you will free the family, the women, the men and the children, you will accept them as individuals, you will accept them as citizens of their rights and the education of children who will do whatever it takes to make them the most of their potential. Look, education in Turkey today is extremely problematic. In the same way, you will support the family indirectly through social policy networks. Poverty, economic inadequacy, is one of the most important reasons for families to get involved. So you can't protect the family by doing malls, roads, bridges and so on, caring about the market economy. I wanted to point out that no member of the Republican People's Party, including myself, has ever said that we don't care about the family. Family again -- it's an important institution, but it's not the government's job to protect the family, it's the state that can only protect the family indirectly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0045par0037	Thank you, Mr. Earth. No more words. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Aysenur will speak for Islam. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0046par0046	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on the basis of the Republican People's Party's motion to ask for me. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I will try to answer all the questions that have been asked here and here, but here on this stand, before this one, before this one, and right now, I have not responded to any delusions, any prejudices, no insults, no verbal violence attempt, I will not, I will not, I will not, I will not, I want to declare this in advance. I will now answer all the questions my dear friends ask in order to learn, and I have answered them before that, and I will always continue to answer them. We, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, underline the necessity and necessity of all political debates for the work and services produced for disadvantaged communities entering our field because of the fundamental element of our field of work, friends. In 13 years as a government, what we do in the field of social services, social welfare and social policy in general, you valued lawmakers and citizens actually know very well. And from now on, these studies will continue to grow, no one will doubt it. This fact is clear when compared with the resources set aside for these services before the Justice and Development Party governments, the figures of our time can be seen. Dear friends, care providers who have been providing care for my ministry are in better condition than ever before in their history, and our quality of service is an example to the world. In particular, the improvements in the child welfare system during our governments have been presented to the world by UNICEF and other international organisations. In our time, social services and welfare agencies, which were in a disorganized state before the AK PARTI authorities, were gathered under one roof. Services for family, children, women, elderly, disabled, social benefits, martyr relatives and veterans are implemented from a holistic point of view within our Ministry of Decision 633 and are provided with activities and efficiency in services. As a ministry, our main goal is to improve the quality of our citizens' lives, to protect them against any neglect, abuse and exclusion based on social state-based service. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, our service policies are based on a family-oriented perspective. From this point of view, we have developed and continue to develop projects with different applications modules that can be integrated into each other with multidimensional and comprehensive studies that concern women, men, children, disabled people, martyr relatives and veterans, depending on the changing conditions. Dear lawmakers put our children, who are the future of our country above all else, we call them children first, and family first for our children. In the belief that the best care environment for children is family, we have determined the basic axis of our child's policy as maintenance near the family. The basic international text that regulates children's rights underlines the basic principles of the Children's Rights, stressing that the child should not be separated from his parents. Our ministry's basic service policy on children in need of protection is primarily to take measures to provide care for children in the presence of their own families or relatives, and in the event that this is not possible, to ensure that the children are looked after in children's home homes or children's homes, instead of child homes and foster homes. Instead of foster homes and day care centres, 90 percent of our children were placed in home-type care institutions, where the average child support is cared for between 5 and 10 children, instead of 90 percent of which are old-fashioned mass care institutions. As the ministry, I've stated that we prefer our children to be with the family for psychosocially healthy development. To this end, we give priority to the child's care at home. In this context, we have returned our 10,616 children to their families by providing socioeconomic support, as well as psychological counseling and guidance for the families of the children who have stayed in our institutions over the last ten years. As of this month, we have about 5,000 children in our home, 24 hours of continuous care, and about 4,500 children are under care on our home site. Our new corporate models, these two organizations, are the basis of our public care system. These models are very successful models for institutional maintenance and set an example for the world. Another of our ministry's family-focused care practices is the foster care system. The foster care system is the practice of our children who have lost their family or who are deemed unfit to be cared for by their parents to be given proper families who agree to care for these children until they come of age. As of today, we have provided our 4,150 children with foster care, living in a warm, caring family environment, to benefit from the family-based model of our children under our care. We're going to develop this app further in the coming months. Another family-oriented service run by our ministry is the adoption service. In this regard, 13.694 of our children were adopted into a warm family environment. To us, the best care provider is the family, and the best care environment is the family environment. We provide economic and social support for our families who have difficulty caring for their children because of this belief, because of social and economic deprivation, because they care for their own children. As part of this practice, we provide social and economic support for the family without receiving the care of the average 60,000 children a year. That way, we don't deprive the family and the family of their children. In order to ensure the physical, mental, and emotional development of our children who are under care in our institutions and institutions, we organise workshops, sporting activities and courses within our institutions in order to maintain their positive and regular lifestyle habits and to gain social values, in line with children's interests, requests and abilities, to participate in various courses organised by relevant public institutions and institutions. As part of Act 6518, supported by the Supreme Assembly, we arranged for our children in institutional care to be placed in private schools free of charge, with a quota to increase their academic and social achievements. If I mention the success of our children's education, in 2013-2014, in education and teaching, 415 of our children took the licensing exam and earned the right to take 293, so the success of our children in this field is 71 percent. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, as to the fact that children who are registered to our institutions and are not actually found, cannot be determined where they are. In our ministry, our institutions work with the open-door system, where children who are in need of protection are allowed to go to school without limiting the freedoms of their children, as well as to provide physical, educational, emotional, psychosocial development, and to give them a healthy personality. These organizations shouldn't be thought of as prisons. We don't imprison these kids, we don't restrict their freedom. Thus, for children living with their families, if there are children who do not return home without permission from their parents, who run away from home, some of the children who are under our care leave from time to time without permission. Each of our child organizations, which has been decided on protection and care measures, is primarily registered in our institutions. Some of our children, however, are temporarily allowed to live with family, relatives, or voluntary families, or children who are not registered in our statistics, in cases such as boarding or attending camps and social activities for the purpose of education or course. Some of our children are our children who have left the organization without permission and have not returned. We went to a new arrangement in our statistical system so that the difference between the number of children recorded in statistics and the actual number of children left in our institutions would not be caused by public opinion by the unknown child. Statistics will be given in the new system, and the public will be informed in more detail about the situation of our children. I just told you, all of our organizations work with an open-door system. These are not prisons, so we can have children who leave our institutions without permission from time to time. When we have a child leaving our institutions without permission for any reason, the situation is immediately reported to relevant security units, the child's family and the court. When we look at the reasons why these children left the organization without permission, we find that the most important reason is because they left the child's family and the social environment that he was accustomed to, and that he couldn't embrace his new life in the first place, and that he longed for time with his family. In addition, the regulation environment in the organisation can lead to the problems of adapting to some children in the first place. An important part of our children in this situation is going to their family, some of them returning to their social background, their friends. As a result, these children are being located and are also being performed in the field of professional work. It is determined that appropriate service models are available for children who go to their family and relatives without permission to reconsider the situation. In the process of searching for our children in this situation and being found and returned to our institutions... [[Noises]] Mr. President, I can't even hear myself.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0047par0065	Yeah, well, at least respect the ladies.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0048par0066	Congressmans, you've heard the Minister's words, and I don't want to give a warning. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0049par0068	In the process of searching and recycling our children in this situation, we have with us all the support of our police force and our police forces in the countryside. Our security units, who have dealt with all missing persons reports and have achieved an average of 97 per cent positive results in missing persons reports, are also having serious success in finding our children. On this occasion, I thank them, too. On the other hand, because of our work for our children who have left the organisation without permission and the continued decision on the measures issued by the relevant court on the child, these children's records in the organisation cannot be deleted, statistics are considered a child who does not remain in the institution. This technical matter must be properly assessed in our Parliament and public opinion. My dear friends, considering the child profile that we serve and take care of, a significant part of our children have suffered the most severe trauma that a child has ever experienced, and are unable to deal with it alone. They're in corporate care, these kids and they're out of family support. They're having trouble controlling their behavior from time to time. They can have problems adapting to the discipline of the corporations. Some of them are drug addicts. Some of them have been victims of crime, abused, driven to crime, made a habit of living on the street and experienced all kinds of risks, violence. They have social harmonies, too. The number of children who have left our institutions without permission due to such social compatibility problems changes daily, even during the day, the number of children who are actually remaining in our institutions. My dear friends, I want to make this very clear. The numbers we gave you three months ago are very different than the numbers we have today. In fact, even as I'm talking here today, the number of our children in corporate care is changing. During the day, children are being transferred to our institutions after court protection decisions or in any way registered in our institutions, discharged from hospital while in a state outside the institution, finishing school and returning to the institution when their parents are on leave and similar children are returning to the institution. On the other hand, for reasons such as adulthood, family leave, foster care, adoption, the number can be reduced at any moment. In short, the numerical data is constantly changing. Information about our children, who are not in fact in the organization, is constantly changing and different from the reasons I expressed above. As of today, as of this morning, we have 15,179 registered children in our institutions. There are 2,985 children who are not in fact left in the corporations. 2,160 of them are allowed, in the hospital, in boarding school, in foster care. Our 825 children have left the organization without permission. We have determined this morning that the parents or relatives of these 825 children were with them. Our 275 children left the institutions without permission, and on the day of their unauthorized departure, we immediately notified the law enforcement authorities, and the search for these children has begun. In this part of my speech, I'd like to briefly tell you about our new public service practice. In order to ensure that our children who have been subjected to violent, drug-addicted, drug-addicted children have been rehabilitated, have been specifically protected, have been abused, have been driven into crime, have been exposed to all kinds of risks on the street, and have been exposed to all kinds of risks, we have established rehabilitation centers called the Children's Support Centers. Right now, our 62 centers throughout our country are serving, so we're going to increase that number accordingly. In these centers, where we specialize in age groups and genders with criteria such as children's victims, criminalization, street living, pregnancy, or drug addiction, a program of healing and rehabilitation with scientific credibility, efficiency and validity...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0050par0075	Congressmans, please! I beg you, there are people listening, so please respect them.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0049par0076	I mean, you're asking me why I'm not telling you guys and you're not listening to me when I'm telling you, and I'm referring this contradiction to you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0051par0077	Don't look this way, look that way, look back. Looking at us, it's like we're talking, people.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0050par0078	Everyone's talking.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0049par0079	I'm telling you and this side, all of them.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0050par0080	To the curve, to the right, everyone's talking. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0049par0082	Once again, friends, we've noticed the lack of an effective and valid recovery and rehabilitation programme, and we've put into practice a psychosocial support programme that has been prepared in the second half of 2014 and has been in our institutions for nearly three months. This program is called Anka. According to legend, we named it after a bird reborn from the ashes. We aim to get rid of the traumas of our own children -- hopefully through this program -- to hold on to life again. We aim to be children who are led to crime by the Phoenix Child Support Program, victims of crime and face social dangers on the street, thinking, self-improvement, believing in themselves, enriching life skills, developing intellectual capacity. In accordance with the Phoenix Children's Support Programme, a professional is appointed as a consultant by the central manager of each child admitted to the institution. Within the first ten days, the counselor assesses the child's individual needs and risks, the way the child comes to the center, the way the child comes to the centre, the child's education, the family's economic situation, where he lives, his friend relations, his physical state, his state of mind, the state of abuse or crime, his personal traits, his behavior issues, and family traits. According to the needs and risks that arise, each child and family receive separate group work or individual counselling services. In individual consulting studies, running away from home, self-destructive behavior, suicide... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, two minutes, please. It's just that the two of us have been seeing each other...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0052par0086	All right, I'll give you two minutes, 'cause I interrupted you and took your time with my speeches. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0049par0088	...to become a victim of abuse, crisis management, intervention in crisis, and trauma modules. Group studies include five chapters and 68 sessions, including personal development, healthy life, emotional adjustment, personality development, addiction. Each session lasts 45 minutes. When personality development and healthy life modules apply to all children, modules, such as crime, abuse, abuse, substance abuse, anger management, impulse disorder, are applied by taking into account children's individual differences and needs. We specialize in institutions capable of responding to this need. In our child support centers, we've been implementing this program for over three months. Dear MPs, please visit our institutions and institutions, please visit these institutions. In fact, it's only natural that you don't know, and maybe I should get on this stand a lot more often and tell you about all these new works. From now on, I hope I'll try to do this a little bit more routinely, I promise you, but please go around these organizations. We've only been doing these applications for three months, and these are the studies that address the group of children that you're very fond of. We've created 62 institutions about it. Names like child support centers, places of love, children's homes, hopefully our children's work will succeed. We need you, we need your support, we need your control, we need your control. We're not offended by the questions you're asking, we're not offended, we're trying to answer as much as we can. Maybe we're running late from work sometimes, and I apologize for that, but I think you'll appreciate it if you see what we're doing out there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you have any specific complaints, my phones are on 24 hours, all of our friends' phones are on 24 hours. We say we work together. We say give us your friendly hand. Greetings and salutations.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0053par0094	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0054par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0053par0096	Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur has filed a motion to ask about Islam...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0054par0097	Mr. President, I'd like a word on the words of the mind.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0053par0098	What did he tease you about?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0054par0099	While speaking, the Minister referred to the testimony of earlier talks by referring to the word "efficiency." I want to promise not to pick on him.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0053par0100	Okay, here you go. So if we go with a systematic like this, no one here will talk, no one will criticize.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0054par0104	Mr. President, criticism requires a culture, a level, delusion is a definition, a diagnosis. If you open your mind and look at it, I'm a medical doctor - it describes madium. So I'd like to dedicate an anecdote to Mr. Minister while I honor Mr. Mazhar Osman. Mr. Mazhar Osman says it doesn't mean anything to you to call me crazy, but, wow, if I call you crazy, then I'm returning your promise of delusion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0055par0107	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my position.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0108	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0055par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my words were exactly: I have answered all your questions, your motions, all the questions you ask on this stand, and I will answer them. I will not answer just delusions, prejudices, insults, and verbal violence. I have not mentioned anyone's name, nor have I pointed out anyone. There's nothing I can do if our friend is involved in this coverage. I apologize.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0057par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0115	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0057par0116	As a doctor, if I include someone within that scope, they need to assess their own situation. I sang for him from Mr. Mazhar Osman. When a physician tells someone that, the answer is very different. I thank you very much. For the record.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0118	Mr. Demirel, thank you, but I want you to know that I have the right to make promises and to consider...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0057par0119	Okay, at your discretion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0120	I'm running the House now, so it's mine. I want you to know that.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0057par0121	It's in the report, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0058par0122	So we told him to file a report. So there's no need to warn me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit03spe0056par0126	Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur has completed talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a geneorization of Islam is on the agenda. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, which has been adopted on the special agenda (11/48), we have received a statement saying that it has been taken back by Group Deputy Director Idris Baluken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, it is given on behalf of Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan (11/48). We're withdrawing the lu Gensoru. With all due respect. Since the gene motion has been withdrawn, the issues on the special agenda have been completed. We move on to the agenda's part of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, ranking 1st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the 3rd Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's proposal for amendments to the Law of Population Services Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's proposal for amendments to the Law of Law and Laws and Laws under the Law of Humanity, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Proposal on Human Rights Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law of Population Services Law; İstanbul MP's Law on Laws and Laws on Laws of Humanity Services; Ministerships of Humanity and Laws of Human Rights on Information; We will Proposecution of Peace on the Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Human Rights Law; We will Propos it with the Council of Peace and the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights; We shall Proposal Law on the Law on the Law of Human Rights; We shall Propos it with the Council of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Law on the Law on Peace of Peace of Humanity of Humanity of Peace of Peace of Peace and Law on Humanity of Human Rights. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Qatar, Defence Industry, and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar Lands. The Commission and the Government are here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 697 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali will speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0059par0044	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, a dangerous deal has come up again. This agreement is interestingly collaborative on the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces to Qatar territory, and that's the number of lines on the cover. Now, as you know, it is only possible for the Turkish military to be sent abroad, but with the decision of the Assembly, we are asked to approve this international agreement to send Mehmetçik to Qatar territory under an agreement with Qatar against the Constitution. When was this deal made, dear friends? This agreement was signed on December 19, 2014; on February 10, it was transferred to Parliament; on February 20th, outside of the normal meeting day -- on Monday -- and this agreement was rushed out of the Commission, and today it was brought to the Parliament in a hurry. What's the rush? I mean, what's the rush? What's going on in the area? There is already a military co-operation agreement between Turkey and Qatar in 2007. Doesn't that satisfy the needs of Qatar, which are being immediately brought to Qatar, a new agreement to deploy troops? That's interesting. Right now, you know, there's this whole training-dock thing going on. Will the Turkish Armed Forces go to Qatar and continue the work there as we train and arm the opposing armed elements in Syria? It's vague and vague. The government needs to make a statement on this, so the General Assembly needs to brief you, the MPs, sir, the nation's deputies on this. In Qatar, again, you know, there is the main base of the American Central Forces Command (CENTCOM). Therefore, the Turkish Armed Forces cannot set foot there without the knowledge of the American Central Forces Command. Now, it's also active in Qatar, a raging terror gang called ilSID (I.A.D.), which has been released in the region. What are you going to do if there's a threat to the military unit at our place tomorrow? And Solomon brought the king, and brought him, and carried the coffins, and brought the government. How do you feel about our military unit in Qatar, dear friends? Has the government made any plans, any programs? This is a co-operation agreement, sir. It's not just military training, it's not a drill, guys. Again, there is another dangerous declaration in Article 4 of this article: "Consolidation in the fight against terrorism." What valuable friends, valued MPs, now? Is there a terrorism incident in Qatar? Who's the terrorist there? So the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces stationed in Qatar will fight against what terrorist groups, and why will they fight for who's interests? What if we're tired of fighting our own terrorist, and we can't handle it, and then we're going to go fight Vahabi, Selafi, ISIS, those murderous gangs, and why are the Turkish Armed Forces going to fight? What's in it for us? Dear friends, in fact, we have been critical of the government's policy in the Middle East since 2012, and we say, "You're doing it wrong." The last thing Solomon had to do was move the shrine to zero. I mean, it's embarrassing, the land of the country has been abandoned. Now, look there, Pesmerge cleared that area of ISIS. For God's sake, who could look sideways at the land of a state like Turkey? The blind eye must be removed, you are a powerful state, you have a strong army. So we're afraid of three or five gangs called ISIS, a raging psychopathic killer? Sir, he was going to attack my shrine. You will destroy ISIS. The Turkish Armed Forces have power, 76-77 million Turkish nations behind the army, supporting it, and no one would say anything. There's an attack on your land. In terms of international law, if your intervention in the United Nations law were an attack by ISIS, no one would say anything about you destroying ISIS there using all the elements of the Air Force, land troops, and everyone would applaud. Now you can't protect it, you retreat. So? Today, the other locals in Syria expelled that ISIS gang. How's that? Dear friends, now the government is actually doing dangerous work. Recently, you know, President Saudi went to Arabia, went to Riyad. On the same day, Sisi was there, President of Egypt. You know that Sisi you call "the driver"?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0060par0053	Right...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0059par0054	That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right. What's Saudi Arabia trying to do with it? Sisy coupger, good, very good. Are you aware that now you are allied with the coup artist Sisi?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0060par0056	Why?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0059par0057	Listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me. Now, look, King Selman of Suud wants to set up a front there. Let's name it, Sunni wants to set up a front. He wants to include Turkey, Jordan, Qatar, Egypt, and Pakistan. Here you are, with this agreement, in Qatar, in fact -- if Egypt says it's okay -- you're going to be ally with Sisi, you're going to be arm in arm, you're going to act with Sisi. Look, I'm saying something else. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, friends, please, I beg you. Look, you know that the official sect of Saudi Arabia, Wahhabilik, is not classical Sunnilik. In fact, our classical Sunni, the classic Sunni, Hanefi, and my Sunni brother from the Shafii sect, are not really Muslims either. And when my Hajj (Hajj) goes and prays in the grave of our Prophet, he says: "Verily, you associate others with Allah in His Divinity." When my Sunni, sir, prays at the shrine of Abdulkadir Geylani, or at the shrine of Ayyub al-Ensariyah, he accepts it as an associate. Such an understanding. Now here you are with this front. Following a meeting with King Selman, Riyadh said that a joint action against sectarian and disseminating policies would be made in the region. Religious and disseminating policies in the region... who's spreading and spreading sectarianism in the region? Iran? You're not making it clear. Is this alliance against Iran? For God's sake, Wahhabilik first came out in Saudi Arabia, and it spread to Pakistan, and then it spread to Afghanistan, where, sir, the Caucasus spread to Syria, Syria, Iraq, and my Turkey spread. Vahabiness is spreading. Vahabiness is spreading. How do you make an alliance with Saudi Arabia against sectarian spreading? The Shiite doesn't spread in Turkey. Don't be afraid. So, sir, in Syria -- at work, Iraq is already Shii. Or in Caucasus, or in Saudi Arabia, there's no chance of Shia spreading in Qatar. Vahabiness spreads and Wahhabiness swallows its classic circumcision. Vahabi, what's Salafi doing? He kills Shii, and Alevi, and cuts down, but he moves your floor, and swallows up your circumcision. Don't you realize that? Don't be afraid. I mean, Iran is already Fars and Shia, and there's no way it's spreading to the region; it's Arab, Turkish and Sunni all over. Iraq's next door, Iraq's structure is already clear. Sir, even there, it's the team that led this Saudi Arabia -- everything that comes from your hand -- to defame Iraq -- that is, unfortunately, my government supports it. You're following such a dangerous policy. Dear friends, my soldier will be stationed in Qatar. Tomorrow at the end of this -- as I said -- if Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt -- which Pakistan is not involved, they want to include Pakistan, Pakistan is being smart. Egypt probably won't get involved because of its own internal confusion, but I'll tell you this, let the public also know that the Turkish public should also know: I mean, the presence of Sisi and Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the same day, the bringing together of these two new Suud King Selman. It's actually a sort of intermediary to resolve these issues between Turkey and Egypt. So, your brother, Sisi, the coupger who knocked over Mursi, was also co-operated with him, and the infrastructure was made to act together in another alliance tomorrow. Therefore, tomorrow you will be ashamed; and tomorrow you will be ashamed of what you have said today. Egypt is the great state of the region, the central state of the Arab world. Egypt never accepts Turkey as the leader of the Arab community, the Arab geography. Forget it once. So this is where the government has the wrong point of view. Egypt says, "Sister, if you call it culture, civilization, I've been here before you." If you say Islam, I have the source of your Islam. I am in El Ezher, and I am training your teachers. You can't lead me in the name of Islam. I am the Arab geography of the region, and I am the leader of the Arab Empire. You will obey me, and I will not obey you. For once, know that. Saudi Arabia says something else. My lord, I have the Prophet; I have Mecca, Medina; therefore, I will not yield to you, that you will obey me, and even the Islam you live in is against Islam. The sense of Saudi Arabia says. What are you trying to do now? Look, Iran can follow sectarian spreading politics. Iran, after all, is a Sharia state, a Shiite state, written in its constitution. Saudi Arabia can watch, for its own sake, the Sharia state, which may be true for itself, but the Republic of Turkey cannot carry out a sectal foreign policy, friends. The Republic of Turkey is a secular republic. The Republic of Turkey is not a Sunni Islamic republic, but a Sunni bloc, which means that it will set up a place for it in the religious bloc. Friends, the Republic of Turkey is a secular republic and is obliged to provide the necessary environment for citizens to have faith in all religion and religion. He should also shape his foreign policy accordingly. The Republic of Turkey should follow politics, not religion. Now, with this deal, you're going to disturb Iran, you're going to take Iran against you. Now, you provide the greatest energy needs from Iran and Russia. Again, you've already had enough conflict with Syria, and now you're providing another strategic transformation. Well, then, you're going to break up relations with Iran. Is that what you're willing to do? Until yesterday, there was this suspicious minister who came out here and said, "I've increased exports, I've reduced current deficits," after the allegations that had been made along with the December 17th-25th corruption incident. Here, your trusted businessman, Reza Sarraf, said that I had closed Turkey's current deficit alone. So, how do you cover this current deficit, where do you do this export? Iran. Well, what Iran is going to receive from natural gas and oil is still in our People's Bank as a TL. So, tomorrow... Oh, do you think Iran has to sell it to me anyway? He will sell Iran's oil, its natural gas; I will not send his money, I will not transfer it; I will keep it in the People's Bank, and I will use it as I please. Is that the way you look at it? That's not how it works. This may be so for today, but now you know that when Iran is in a position where the international community is slowly loosening the embargo, and tomorrow it will be removed completely, and so is the nuclear agreement, and so is the direct relationship with the West. Well, Turkey has been a country that has been heading west since the Ottoman Empire for two centuries. Why are you suddenly driving into the Middle East, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, or something like that? Sir, shouldn't Turkey be connected to the region? Of course, of course. Didn't you have an Ataturk? Their closest relationship was with our neighbors, Greece with Iran, Pakistan with Pakistan; he founded the Sadabat Pact, Ataturk. No one's saying no relationships, so make a relationship, but in the interest of the country. Our country's foreign policy must be shaped towards the interests of the country. But if you form an alliance with a cult axis, I mean, it's going to reflect in a different way tomorrow. I mean, don't we know if the Republic of Turkey has lost its secular quality or if you're out of secularism? Sir, have you turned Turkey into a state of religion with a certain sectal axis? Do you think the Republic of Turkey is no longer a secular republic? To him, we are Sunni Islamic republics, and even Sunni, Hanefi Islam, so I'm the alliance... what are you doing with Vahabi, Hanefi Islam, if you're Hanefi Islam? It's not your job to cooperate with Wahabi. It won't be tomorrow. Look, right now, my young people, my children, have thousands of young people who have joined ISIS using their religious feelings. It's a shame, isn't it? Their parents are crying, their funerals are coming. Well, don't the young people who join the ISIS ranks today produce tens of thousands of ISIS militants as soon as you turn Turkey's direction this way tomorrow? Aren't those ISIS militants going to cut up your compatriot in Syria today, whoever the light is cutting off? So, what are you going to do today, precious government, when this deviant understanding of killing Alevi will return to its own citizens tomorrow? So where does this take this country -- God forbid -- this kind of conflict? For God's sake, I really don't want to object, but I don't think this agreement serves the interests of our country in the interest of the Republic of Turkey. Tomorrow, when Mehmetchik is there again in the atmosphere of conflict with these terror elements, my liver will burn. None of your kids are going there. Are you sincere? Here's a suggestion. If the cabinet members have children, especially the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State, they are in the military age, or send their relatives here, please. Please, if you're sincere, if you really think we're doing something in the interest of the country, okay, if it's the country's interests, then the members of the government should be in front of it first, shouldn't they? Send your children to this unit that you will send to Qatar, first your own relatives, especially the government, then the members of the ruling party. Will you be able to send it? No, you won't. The genius of a single person, a member of the AKP, will not be here. You're using the son of a motherfucker, the poor son of Anatolia. For whom, for what purpose? Say, "Let a government official come out here and say... or ask for a closed session, you ask for one, say: "Friends, this is our country's interest in ratifying this agreement." Say it, convince me, and we'll give it to you. Not like this. You're saying the agreement is an agreement, friends. So what weapon do you want to exchange information for military and maneuvering education, not just information exchanges, you're saying cooperation in the logistic field, you're saying the exchange of intelligence, you're saying the military equipment, staff. So what weapon do you want to give? Earlier, you know, in the press talks about moving weapons to Yemen, who will be killed with these weapons? I have a guilty conscience. Well, now that you're in Yemen, here you are, and there you are in another game. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, either let the government come out, and let us know that this agreement is in favour of Turkey, convince us to agree with you, and let us, of course, give us almost all of our country's interests, or, in this case, agree to this agreement, it would mean violation of Article 92 of the Constitution, and without knowing what will happen tomorrow, you would have agreed to go on an open-ended adventure, Mehmet. Because of these concerns, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, informing Qatar that we are against and will vote against this international agreement on the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0061par0083	Thank you, Mr. Original. The nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0062par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0061par0086	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0062par0087	While the valuable speaker is speaking on the stand, we're looking for a cult-axis alliance and...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0063par0088	Your government, your government.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0062par0089	Whose government is the government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0064par0090	It's the AK PARTY!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0063par0091	Sir, the Minister can speak for the government there.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0065par0092	Mr. Original, please, let me decide. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0066par0094	And he also implied that we support ISIS.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0067par0095	Yes, yes, Mr. President, but, sir, I criticized the government. He can't know that. He's AKP's Deputy Group President. Government policy...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0065par0096	Well, I'll ask you from now on, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0067par0097	But, Mr. President, the government is there.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0065par0098	I'll ask you who I'll promise next, all right? Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0102	Mr. President, dear friends... Mr. Ali, you know the government's policy, but I don't.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0105	I don't know, I want explanations, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0106	Excuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0107	I want a break.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0108	Look, it's like this...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0109	I wanted him to come and explain.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0110	My dear brother, dear friends, in this Middle Eastern geography, a religious or ethnic-based political approach is the most dangerous policy in the form of pureness of this, and anyone who does so will be overwhelmed by it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0111	Very good, that's right, I applaud.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0112	The governments of the Republic of Turkey have been very careful about this, including the AC PARTY governments.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0113	Except for the AKP, it's true.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0114	Because Turkey's own social reality, in fact, is part of the social reality of the Middle East, which we refer to as some of its qualities. If our government had looked at the Middle East with a religious approach, it would not have had trade relations with Iran, which you criticised in your speech. Iran, as far as I know, correct me if I know wrong - the sect is different.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0116	Right.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0117	Second of all, if he had looked at the cult, he would have supported the coup artist.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0118	You're forming an alliance now, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0119	Sisi and them, as far as I know, are in a common world with us; I mean, in general, I mean, your accusation is basically what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0120	But you're different in the sense of Ihvan.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0121	Third, you always say: "You were good with Esad, and then you were bad. " When we were good with Assad, were Assad's sect different? It wasn't.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0122	Then you will bring the Muslims to power...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0123	Now we're evil, from the cult? No.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0124	Yeah, yeah. Your policy has changed.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0125	The matter of Sisi, and the matter of Assad, is of violence, and of blood, not of sect.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0126	No, not at all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0127	I beg you very much, to be very careful with these matters.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0128	No, the bloodiest regime is in Saudi Arabia.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0129	...Mr. Ali, we're all in debt, please. Let us serve Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0130	Sir, why are you allies with Bahrain and Saudi Arabia?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0131	Let us serve Turkey, and be careful.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0132	Bahrain and Saudi Arabia have blood on their hands, why don't you say something to them?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0070par0133	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0134	I beg of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0069par0135	I mean, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0068par0136	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0071par0138	Thank you. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, we, of course, are not opposed to co-operation in all areas, especially with countries in Ottoman geography, but I would like to say here in particular that in recent years, the AKP government has made huge mistakes in Middle Eastern policy. And that's how all the authorities express it, and I think that the AKP itself knows that he has made great mistakes in his policies. As a matter of fact, today, when the current Prime Minister was Minister of Foreign Affairs, his first steps as a zero problem were really a popular policy rather than any kind of criticism. Because a close relationship was established with the Middle East states, trade agreements were made, and visa exemptions were granted in a manner of opening borders. This was not welcomed by the West, and it was said that Turkey had changed lanes and changed places, but what was real was that Turkey was going back to its original place. As a matter of fact, these first steps led to Turkey's gaining an important position in the Middle East, gaining prestige, gaining influence. As a matter of fact, when we went to Syria, after these visas were lifted, we arrived in Syria with great ease. I myself, myself, gave a conference at the University of Aleppo in the Middle Eastern Policy of Turkey under the name of Syria's Location and its Importance, and it was highly appreciated. I say this from a point of view, and I don't mean to flatter myself that Syria thought this step was a very important step towards eliminating issues in the time of Turkey and the current President's father. As a matter of fact, during this conference, the Turkmen in Aleppo, and the Turkishmen at Aleppo University, were relieved enough to ask me questions in Turkish. So a good start was made. But suddenly there was a major change in Turkey's policies in the Middle East overnight, as if it had been beaten by a blow in the dream, and Turkey came out of nowhere. At the time, Mr. Prime Minister, who is now President, suddenly became an enemy with a knife in his hand with the Syrian President, with a very close relationship with Syria. Was that true? It wasn't true, but it came out as part of a project called the Great Middle East Project, in the Middle East, where it actually exists, but with a new strategy. I am the Co-President of the Great Middle East Project. But it was important to remember that the statements of the American Foreign Minister of the United States at that time, Rice, about the change of borders in the Middle East, were, in fact, the reason why today's bells would ring. As a result, between Syria and Turkey -- it should be counterintuitive -- it should be a policy that should continue without problems, but suddenly they become almost enemy brothers. But what was interesting was that the current prime minister, the current President, was speaking at the Council of Europe in 2011, saying that the Pilgrimages brought civilization to the east. In fact, the core of the issue was here, the main idea was here. Now, everyone knew that Crusades didn't bring civilization east, they brought destruction. We all know that. It was nothing more than the return of Islam to the deserts of Hejaz, Arabia, the Crusades and the east...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0073par0148	Who said that?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0149	The Prime Minister at that time is on the European Council. I'll show you the video, Mr. Mehmet. Let me show you his speech on the Council of Europe. Even our food culture changed with this. He said in his speech. In fact, as I said, this was the key, showing that the Prime Minister's policy in this region is consistent with American policy. The Crusades brought destruction to Anatolia and destruction to the world of Islam. You know the Anatolian, who opposed Kılıçarslan, but Richard of Lionheart took Jerusalem and slaughtered all the civilians, children and women. So, you collaborated with the people who did this, and he said, "I am the co-chair." In fact, today in the Middle East, while hundreds of thousands of people were losing their lives, who was the key to the loss of their lives? They were allied forces, especially the United States, their allies in Europe. We all watched it like it was watching a movie on TV when the bombs were raining. Isn't that right? Millions of people were slaughtered in Iraq, forced to emigrate. The same thing happened in Syria; around 200,000 people were killed today. Either way, the people who died in these conflicts from both sides, the people who were both Muslims, both saying, "Allah." But, who was the mastermind? Unfortunately, it included those who ruled Turkey and Turkey. There's no getting rid of that. That's how history will write it. But think about this, friends: Look, for whom is the present image in the Middle East today? Is it for the good of Turkey? Is it for the good of the Islamic world in the Middle East? Is it for the good of the West? That's something to think about. Today, the emergence of ISIS, the opposition to Assad, or against him, is the situation in Kurdish cantons or Iraq. Whose good is that? For the good of the Islamic world or for the good of Western imperialism? Look, the Islamic world has, up until now, unfortunately -- I take the Islamic world in general -- has always been the colony and market of Western imperialism, it's always been managed, and unfortunately, it's always been the richest region in the world, but it's always been controlled by the West. When the West began to form a force against them here, it interfered with these regions with an excuse; it pitted Iraq and Iran against it, Iraq and Kuwait. And then he brought out his own internal conflicts. What happened to human rights and democracy? Libya, did he come? Is Egypt there? Is he here? Is he here? In Syria; did he come? You can't say yes to any of them. Only destruction and death have arrived. Only in these countries of the Islamic world have the disintegration and the enemies of one another emerged. Blood takes the body away, enemies to each other. Because it was actually created in World War I with a very serious strategy when these states were formed. All of you, visualize the maps. The state borders are drawn with a complete ruler. Why do you think? Have you thought about it? In fact, there are different sects within the internal dynamics of these states. It's very easy to turn them against each other. There have been massacres like this in the past tense. So, when the West knew when to intervene, it interfered, and today, as you can see, the blood is taking away the body. Dear friends, Turkey's southern borders have been turned today, and you know it. So, tell me, who are the elements that feed terrorism in Turkey -- not just think of some ethnic groups within ourselves? In the past tense, no one is the same person. Just as there is the Kurd Teali Society, just as there is the support of someone in Sheikh Said's uprising, or as there is the support of France, Italy, Russia, and England, there are these states if you pay attention to them.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0074par0155	The Kurdish Teali Society did not rebel.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0156	Whatever states signed the breakup of the Ottoman Empire before 1914 and asked for a share today in the Middle East have fingers and hands. Therefore, if you don't consider them, you'll follow a wrong policy.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0074par0157	Teacher, the Kurdish Teali Society has no rebellion in history.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0158	He's with the British. I'll discuss it with you later, so please don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0075par0160	Mr. Metiner, please... please, do not interfere.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0161	So, in this analysis, there's no harm in now, friends, Turkey cooperating with Qatar, or even collaborating with the military. But look, I want to say something: why did we fight with Assad, Turkey is fighting? Because he doesn't take human rights seriously or puts them under the bus, because it's not a democracy, right? On the other hand, what do we think we're fighting for in Iraq, or we're involved in them? Human rights -- what Europe says, what America says -- and it's called dictatorship here. Tell me, friends, look at the Islamic world, what kind of regime is there in Jordan, what kind of regime is there in Saudi Arabia, what kind of regime is there in Qatar, what kind of regime is there in the Arab Emirates, what kind of regime is there in Kuwait? In fact, is he any different from the others? So, when we embrace Saudi Arabia, when we embrace Qatar, for what reason do you think they're a little cruel? I mean, in Saudi Arabia, when people are executed, don't they get their heads cut off with a sword? Don't women get exposed? So, if we're talking about human rights, why do we have to work with them? Why is America so quiet about all this? Therefore, the issue underlying this is a different matter. You'll have to take it that way. You can't say, "I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I'm doing it again, it's wrong." Every step you take, you need to get a good look at the results and know where they're going. It's a state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art culture. So I did it today, and I'll fix it tomorrow. You can't say in the state, because that responsibility has been given to you by the nation, and you are the preventer of people going the wrong way. If you do this wrong, then you, unfortunately, will be corrupting this nation, instead of serving it, and you will be violating the rights and laws of the nation. If you do so, tomorrow history will not forgive you. The opposition is constantly warning you, and today we're warning you. Look, in these agreements you made with Qatar, we say: Now let's review Article 92 of the Constitution. What's he saying? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces to other countries or for the power of war... The 92nd article and you take the 90th article. The 90th article is for issues sent down for a year, where you make a ten-year deal, and then you put the interesting one in here, and you say: "Consolidation in the fight against terrorism." Okay, we also say West. Let's cooperate in terrorism. But look, in these contracts that we've made with them, can you tell me? Do these provide financial support for every association set up by the PKK? He's being found. Does the United States officially help the PKK? It does, and today, unfortunately, you are acting with the PKK, which you disagree with. You say: "We have drawn them for the future of 44 of our soldiers in Solomon's Shah Temple." You say, "You are leaving the land." And the Prime Minister was saying: "Whatever Ankara is, the Shah Temple is the same." So now that you have left Solomon Shah Temple for 44 soldiers, doesn't that mean Ankara will be abandoned in the same way?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0076par0165	Teacher, for the first time?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0072par0166	Well, since it's equivalent, there's something wrong here. Then it's wrong; at least make your statements properly. Now, you'll come, you'll leave him, you'll say, "Our soldiers, have mercy, it was just yesterday, March 18. We remember the martyrs of the Battles of Çanakkale, our heroic army. We're here on a special agenda. We all prayed deeply for those martyrs, and we said: "For the Turkish nation, for Turkey, for the flag, for the oppressor; for the enemy's boots; for them, for them, for their hearts and their breasts. " Can you tell me, didn't those people have families, or children? Yesterday, I told you, one family of every four families has been widowed. I said, "One martyr has left every three houses." These are statistically determined. Now, let's take a good look at these. If you withdraw from your land in some way, from your internationally recognized land, our soldier's nose bleeds. If you are afraid of him, they will come upon you tomorrow. In fact, since you didn't react when you put a bag over the soldier's head, that's the breaking point, so your red line is no more. Anything can be done to a Turkish soldier, because you remain silent. For once, whoever called for total surrender there committed treason. So I would like to say, did we receive Hatay in 1938 with international agreement? We got it, it's connected to us. Then you will also leave Hatay, because our soldiers here will have nosebleeds. Is there such an understanding, such a man of state? Then can you tell me what the army was feeding for? For God's sake! So, look, I repeat: by coming to the game of international imperial forces, we allowed the Islamic world to break down in our own geography, and we became partners in it somewhere. What the Prime Minister said was: "No soldier can enter Libya, no foreign soldier. The next day, NATO will enter Libya for the safety of Libyans." One day later -- what an understanding it is" a day later. And what was interesting was, in fact, what kind of geography, how close we are when the state is being led... Dear friends, many of you have been to this geography. The people there embraced you when you called them Turkish. Look, they've done some practices in Yemen that they've never applied to anyone. When I was in the normal community, I was in the store, and we came back to get presents, and he asked me what I was, and when I told him I was Turkish, he came and gave me a nice hug. The same thing happened in Tunisia. There is El Ahbar Square in the Zaytuniye region, where there are houses with green shutters. I'm filming it with a camera, because it's a beautiful architecture. Three civilians came in, said he couldn't. He said he was a cop. They said, "Give me the camera." I said, "No, let me give you the tape. I didn't know it was forbidden." They showed it, and there was a sign. When I tried to give it to them, they said to me, "What nation are you from?" When I said "Turkkum," they returned the tape. They said, "Turkci garda, you can do it." Now, friends, these people were our brothers. And when we went to Algeria, we saw that the people who were walking the streets looked like us, and I asked Abdulkadir Bey, who was head of the Archives at the time, and I said, "This is very similar to us. I feel like I'm in Turkey." He said, "They are already Turkish origins." Now, my dear friends, we're talking about this geography, and we're going to work on it in cooperation with the Westerners, who have served this geography to hurt each other and cause them to break. We had to be peacemakers, we had to be analysts, we had to bring each two groups closer together; the only nation and the only country that could do this was Turkey, but we didn't do this, but Assad was doing this: when I went to Damascus, Closed Street, there were cloth posters all over the place in the name of the Prime Minister and the President, the Turkish flag was equipped with the flag. Today, the Turkish flag is being burned there. And when I went to the same place, let me tell you, the Prime Minister made this decision: "No smoking is allowed in closed places." It was one of the best moves, and Assad made the same one there. Now, dear friends, democracy is a matter of culture, it needs time to mature. Without these, you can't establish democracy. It is not possible for you to establish democracy in the Islamic world, because it is not yet that culture, even in Turkey, we are still working on it. Finally, I would like to say that our concern for the treaty signed with Qatar is that you will act in order to create and train a team, despite Kerry's words, in order to further stir things up in Syria. Therefore, it will not be appropriate to allow it, and you will all be burdened with it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0077par0177	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0078par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0077par0179	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0078par0180	Mr. President, the precious speaker, our former president, has expressed that our current President, the Crusades, have brought civilization into the world of Islam. It's an open taunt, I want word in that frame.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0079par0181	Right. Did my teacher pick on you?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0080par0183	I'll watch the video, I'll play it, the video's here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0184	Okay, Mr. Bostanci, let him speak, and you can make his statement, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0082par0186	Mr. President, I'm so sorry, can I say something?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0187	Yes, of course.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0082par0188	So, I'm sorry to say that Mr. Naci Bostancı has received a promise from the current President. As you know, the President will be cut off from his party after he's elected.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0083par0189	Our former President. I said.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0190	Our former President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0082par0191	But, sir, he'll be cut off from his party. I don't think he's gonna want to make a statement about it, but if he wants to give a piece of information, I think he should give it to him from where he's sitting.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0192	Mr. Gök, our former President. I mean, he's responding to a statement our former president said when he was our president.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0082par0193	But he's been disconnected, sir. Which means he's not cut out, by the way. I think he should talk from here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0194	Not now, not now, so he's not responding to a statement the President has just said.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0082par0195	Mr. President, let's contain them, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0081par0196	Sure, go ahead. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0084par0200	Mr. President, dear friends, the criticism itself is based on a criticism of the EC PARTY through the President, not only on the President, but on me, in that sense, you'll agree. Now, sir, there are many things that should be answered for the speech of Mr. Joseph, but I pass them by, leaving them at the discretion of the nation.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0085par0202	Tell me everything, and I'll answer it right away.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0084par0203	About the Crusades... it's been a century or so since the Crusades. It's seen behind it as a time when the Holy One has been flagging, and Christianity has served as a bannerman, but it's essentially a raiding and looting expedition. The socioeconomic reality behind the Crusades is a sense of knighthood revealed through the feudal structure's soil system. These knights, who had no money but sought glory, carried on these Crusades for nearly two hundred years, using the holy as a packaging to plunder the riches of the East. But the historians of culture and civilization know that -- and Mr. Joseph is a historian -- that culture has a place in the relationship and enrichment of one another -- in trade, adventurous pilgrims, various missionaries, and at the same time, wars. People fight, but they also take cultural elements from each other, culture transfers. The President's statement is a transfer of culture through the Crusades between the Islamic world and the Christian world. That's what he said.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0086par0205	Don't fight wars now, Naci Bostancı!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0084par0206	Please, let's read everything right, right, right, consistent. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0209	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0088par0210	So why are you fighting wars now?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0089par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0212	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0088par0213	Then you have to fight to become civilized. Then don't argue now.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0214	I didn't say Mr. Tallırmak, I said Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0088par0215	Yeah, yeah, nothing else.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0217	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0218	Now, Mr. Bostanci has said that my words on behalf of the Prime Minister are as follows.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0091par0219	I said that context, it's not intentional.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0220	He said the context.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0221	I want to say the context, and I'm saying it's not the context.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0222	If you're going to make a statement, I'm going to have to give it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0223	No, I'll do it from there, sir, because he says he's made my mistake.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0224	Look, Mr. Halaçoglu, you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0225	I'm saying there's a lot of things I have to answer for.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0226	If you're going to make a statement, I have to promise you your position.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0090par0227	I want it without teasing.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0228	What's his motive? No. [[Noises in MHP rows]] But here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0092par0232	What more can I say?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0233	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0093par0235	You're a judge and a prosecutor, we don't understand.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0094par0236	Mr. President, should he or should he not ask Recep Tayyip Erdogan? It's very simple.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0237	I'll also ask Mr. Tallırmak what I'll do here from now on.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0094par0238	Of course, I'd be happy to.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0239	You have become the fourth.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0094par0240	Gladly.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0095par0241	Hodja, let him play the speech for us.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0087par0242	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0244	Dear lawmakers, it's really hard to say that the Crusades were a cultural exchange...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0097par0245	You're welcome. That's what you should know.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0246	Look, how long ago did the Crusades begin? 1097, the 1st Crusade began in 1097, correct?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0097par0247	Right.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0248	The 1st Crusade began in 1097, and the 4th Crusade ended in the occupation of Istanbul in 1204. In fact, the Crusade, which led to Jerusalem, brought nothing but destruction. Now, if you're talking in the Council of Europe... which there is another way. The year is 1997, and as the chairman of the Historical Society, I hold the 400th anniversary of the Crusades.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0098par0249	Play it for us, play it for us.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0250	I will, sir, just a minute. I'm doing the 400th Anniversary Congress of the Crusades and the Crusades. Then Mr. Erdogan is the mayor of Istanbul. When I asked him if he would give a meal to his guests, he said to me: " Did you not find another job, Hodja?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0098par0252	You don't betray trust.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0099par0253	Stop being so conditioned.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0254	Now, it was strange for a city like Istanbul to say that you could not find another job by ignoring a crusade such as the destruction of Istanbul.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0098par0255	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0256	I'll play it for you. I'll play it for you in private.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0098par0257	Not in private, play it here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0096par0258	I'll play it right here. I'll get it from there. I'll play it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0100par0259	Mr. Yusuf, it's a shame to explain the conversation between two people here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0101par0260	This can't be a private conversation, it's a public matter.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0102par0261	You can't, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0103par0262	And when I do, what are you going to do? And when I do, what will you say when I show you? I'll show you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0102par0263	You won't find it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0103par0264	I'll show you, really.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0104par0265	Mr. Halaçoglu, would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0103par0266	So, in a way, if you try to praise Crusades like this, you ignore the persecution of the Islamic world by the crusaders today -- they have crusades now -- you call them cultural exchanges, and at the same time, even our food culture changes with the present.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0104par0267	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0105par0268	Mr. President, for the record. I did not praise the Crusades, but said it was for plunder and plunder, and Joseph jumped. But I also said that wars produce transfers of culture, which is something that cultural historians are very interested in and well aware of. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0106par0271	Thank you. We're moving on to the QA. Dear Sky... Is Mr. Sky here?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0107par0278	I'm right here, sir. I'm right here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0106par0279	I'm looking for Jesus Sky. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0107par0281	Let me do the talking, if you'll have me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0106par0282	Sure, you're welcome. Come on in.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0107par0283	Mr. President, I'm asking the Minister a question regarding this agreement, and I'm waiting for the government's opinion on the matter to place this agreement on a legal basis within the framework of Article 90, 92. Now, our Constitution is very clear; our Constitution, the 90th article, states that international agreements will come into effect with the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This Law Bill 697 concerning Qatar, as we discussed, is a bill brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey according to Article 90 of the Constitution. However, Mr. Secretary, in the 92nd article, which regulates the declaration of war and permitting the use of the armed forces, it is very clear whether the Armed Forces are being used or not... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0108par0287	One minute, Mr. Gök, we have other friends who will ask questions.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0107par0288	But, sir, I've had a little bit of time with that chapter we've been living in from the beginning.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0108par0289	If there's time, I promise you again.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0107par0290	I've got one last sentence left, sir. If you'd like, I have one last sentence left, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0108par0291	I think it would be unfair to all our friends.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0109par0292	No, we're giving him our time...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0110par0293	Deputy Director of the Group, sir, if you could give me a moment.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0109par0294	So you can promise him for us.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0111par0295	Well, for the second time, I promise you, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0112par0296	Article 92 of our Constitution...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0109par0297	You're sabotaging, Mr. President, or rather, friends, I salute you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0111par0298	That's a joke, please!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0109par0299	No, I fixed it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0111par0300	Yes, Mr. Sky, is the microphone on?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0113par0301	No, sir, it hasn't.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0111par0302	Have you been back in the system, Mr. Sky? Come in again, and we'll make another promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0113par0304	Mr. Secretary, the 92nd Amendment is very clear. Article 92 states that the authority to allow Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to foreign countries or to allow foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey has clearly not touched on the basis of any use of force when the Constitution, when the Armed Forces are sent or when they arrive. Now, in the framework of this ruling that contradicts Article 90 and Article 92, we want to know what compelling reason your government will give us in regard to this bill you have brought according to Article 90. If this is not resolved, the claim of violation of the Constitution is evident, and if it is discussed according to Article 90, it would be a very clear violation of the Constitution. Will you please inform our House on this matter?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0111par0305	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0114par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you two questions that I think will shed some serious light on the debates of this agreement: 1) Does this agreement have anything to do with the 2-4 billion dollars that are expected to come to the stock market from Qatar? 2) Is there any chance that Qatar will send money again after the $10 million he sent for the Syrian opposition, and that agreement has anything to do with it? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0115par0311	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0116par0312	Minister, 30,000 Turks were working in Libya before the Libyan civil war, which your government supported. However, various companies also had high numbers in Libya. Now, there are two-headed Libyan governments -- can Turks work; how many Turks work now? Turkish businessmen, do their firms do business? Just like before the war, we had five oil wells that had come to the point of oil extraction. In Libya, we had five oil wells as part of our agreements. What is the end of these oil wells now? After the war, France and Italy made oil deals with Libya. Did Turkey make these deals, what's the catch?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0115par0314	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0117par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, does this agreement have anything to do with training the Syrian opposition that was previously signed with the United States, so will the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, which will be in Qatar, train and equip Syrian opposition there? A second question: Will these soldiers, the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, be able to serve in a possible military unit that is thought to be formed within the Central Command Force (CENTCOM) of the United States in Qatar? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0118par0319	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0119par0320	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the senior executives of the Muslim brothers -- Muslims Brothers -- who had previously been reported in Qatar -- were later made a statement -- would be accepted into Turkey. How much has been accepted? Can you tell me anything about this? I was going to ask the government about the outcome of the Turkish contractors in Libya. I repeat. And yesterday, after the U.S. House of Representatives, the Senate and 70 or so senators from the Senate wrote a letter condemning media pressure on the media in Turkey. What attitude will you have on this matter as a government? Did you have a reaction? What kind of attitude would you have? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0120par0324	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0121par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, has there ever been a cause for war on the grounds of cultural exchange in the world? When war is assessed, of course, as a result and as a result of the war, there are some transactions, but the outcome of these transactions has always been inhuman. There has been progress by taking power from each other, but the fact that a statesman and a parliamentary speaker in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey describe such inhumane events as a cultural exchange does not make the cause of war rationalized and valid. It's human hostility. It's a cause for war. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0122par0328	Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0123par0329	Mr. Secretary, I don't know if I should ask you this question or not, but I hope you'll answer it. Because in the name of the current President, your former president, the AKP people are responding, and I think you'll respond. Now, the former Prime Minister, the current President, has repeatedly expressed that he is the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project, that he is the president, that he is one of its leaders. Now he's President of the Republic of Turkey. What's his position after he becomes president? Is he still a spouse or one of the leaders of the Great Middle East Project? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0124par0332	Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0125par0333	Mr. President, the state of the Republic of Turkey sent over $300m in suitcases to Libya from the covered funds. Now, there are two governments in Libya, which government are you dealing with, which government are you familiar with, and what are you going to do to get that $300 million back?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0124par0334	Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0126par0335	Mr. President, Cemil Bayık, one of the PKK's leaders in Kandil (Kandil) yesterday, says to the President: "In terms of the social health of the people of Turkey, Erdogan should be locked up in an asylum. I want to know the government's position and the AKP Group's position in this approach.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0127par0336	Can such a statement be moved here? Is that a question?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0124par0337	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0128par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. At the time of Mr. President's BOP co-chair, what benefit has Turkey made from this project? Is he still in charge of this mission? If he didn't, who did he put in charge of? Mr. Prime Minister, does the new Prime Minister currently have a relationship with the BOP co-chair? Who is still in charge of this task in the field of geography? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0124par0340	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0129par0341	Mr. Secretary, when we look at the events in Syria, we see that it began immediately after Israel and Southern Cyprus released natural gas in accordance with their agreements. In fact, the Minister of Energy said, "Come, let us market your natural gas." Because moving from Mediterranean to Europe through a pipeline was the only move of natural gas reserves to Turkey through Syria, because there was no possibility of consumption in that region. Do you think it's possible that this gas could be marketed by Turkey? Could your dealings with Israel be the reason why the Syrian events began?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0124par0342	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0130par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Since it is directly related to the bill that we discussed, I would like to answer Mr. Sky's question in detail. In the first joke of Article 92 of the Constitution, the declaration of war in terms of inter-national law as well as the laws of inter-national agreements or international courtesy that Turkey is a party to, the Turkish Parliament has the authority to allow Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to foreign countries or foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey. The Turkish Armed Forces will be sent to another country without the permission of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as it is understood from the ruling, although it is part of Turkey's international agreements. As a matter of fact, international agreements, such as NATO, U.S.A., and U.S.A., are required to allow foreign armed forces to be in our country without the need for the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or to send elements of the Turkish Armed Forces abroad. On the other hand, it is understood that the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar is intended for training and joint exercise when the fourth article of the treaty is examined.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0131par0347	It's not just that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0130par0348	The approval of many international agreements with such provisions has been approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly before. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Turkish National Assembly has the authority to allow the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to foreign countries. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in general, uses its authority as a Parliamentary decision. However, there is no obstacle to the use of this authority by law. Therefore, the bill was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly as a bill, as a law required for ratification and implementation of the treaty with Qatar. In the case of law enforcement in the General Assembly, the Constitution shall have the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in Article 92 of the Constitution. The requirement shall be fulfilled. Therefore, the law that finds it appropriate to ratify the agreement with Qatar in the event of the agreement or the adoption of the agreement with Qatar does not have any discrepancies with the Constitution. On the other hand, Mr. Horseman asked if this important deal had anything to do with economic interests, interests. This agreement is a security-oriented agreement that looks out for bilateral interests and looks out for regional interests. It certainly can't be reduced to some small economic gains. Mr. Akar asked questions about Libya. Some of our other friends have questions about Libya. Libya is now, of course, a conflict. There are issues stemming from Libya's internal politics. This affects our country's economic activities there as well as other countries' economic activities in Libya. Hopefully, as soon as Libya gets past these problems within itself. We'll see a more predictable environment in that sense. In this process, our country's interests, our economic interests there, are closely monitored by our Ministry of Economics, and we certainly strive as a country to do what can be done under these conditions. On the other hand, he asked me if this agreement, Mr. Original Day, had anything to do with training and writing for Syria. I just got some information from my friends. There's no way that we can build a relationship with the training and training program of the Syrian opposition, not that kind of relationship. On the other hand, Mr. Kuşoglu asked a question about bringing senior experts to Turkey, and again, he mentioned a letter from US senators facing the press. I'm in no position to give you any details about these matters. However, I must say that the press-based thesis from abroad is part of a perception operation. There's been a recent attempt to cloud the international image our country has provided towards democratisation. We know that a variety of domestic environments also serve it as a dish, I'm afraid. Because sometimes, if there's a job against the government, we see that there's an approach, unfortunately, that we can defame our country if necessary, but the facts are obvious. No press member in Turkey is being followed by any pressure, in any way, with the identity of.... of being a member of the press. Like all other professions, members of the press have no freedom to commit crimes, no privilege. Whether you're a member of the press, whether you're a member of another professional group or a criminal group, those who commit crimes have to answer to justice. This has nothing to do with freedom of the press. In Turkey, today, many media organizations are free to broadcast 24 hours of criticism of the government. We can easily say that this was done in much more aliveness than in many Western countries. But like I just said, no one has the freedom to commit a crime. The identity of a member of the press does not give you that kind of privilege. Of course, we have to do what we have to do together to further the freedoms of the press. On the other hand, this issue of war and cultural exchange... could be a lot of ways to exchange culture. Of course, it's a situation that we all desire to do, not with wars, but with other channels. We never desire wars, but wars are the environments that bring societies together, bring positive or negative interactions. I think it would be much healthier if social scientists discussed it. So I think it would be more useful for us to leave this kind of discussion to social science, historians rather than to discuss it in this parliament environment.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0132par0356	It's politically done, Mr. Secretary, and we have to express it because it's politically done.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0130par0357	But just because there's a culture exchange here doesn't mean it's positive. Of course, wars are things we never wanted, and of course, we all know that. On the other hand, on the basis of a statement from Cemil Bayiq, an insult to Mr. President has been raised. Mr. President is the President of all of us, President of 78 million.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0133par0360	I wish I could.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0134par0361	He's the only one who doesn't know; everyone knows, he hasn't found out yet!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0130par0362	He's a president who's been elected by the majority of the people and is in charge. Everyone should respect our President and the office.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0135par0363	Minister, there are no objections. No objection, but let them act the same way.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0130par0364	Everyone should respect the presidency.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0136par0366	Tell that to Mr. Erdogan at first.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0137par0367	Who does the President want 400 MPs for? Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0138par0368	Mr. Secretary, you don't believe yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0139par0369	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0140par0370	It's not just the ruling party's duty to show that respect, it's all of us.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0141par0371	Not neutral, President!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0139par0372	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0140par0373	On the other hand...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0142par0374	The neutral president doesn't want 400 MPs for the AKP! Politically, there are no sides!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0139par0375	While you were asking questions, Mr. Secretary listened to you, please listen to the Minister's answers with the same silence. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0143par0377	The President says: I am not your President. I resent him, I resent him!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0144par0378	On the other hand, I have to say, I don't think it's the right way to express the statements of each speaker, which include some insult, in this climate of the House.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0145par0379	Are you saying that every person talks? You're negotiating.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0146par0380	He insults everyone. He's insulting everyone in the morning and evening, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0144par0381	So why did our Congressman need to express it here, why did he bring it up, and I leave it to the discretion of our people? As for the issues related to the great Middle East...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0145par0382	We're sorry, we regret being insulted by the President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0144par0383	On the other hand, as far as the Great Middle East Project is concerned, it is clear that we are in no way positive about outside interference in the Middle East, that we are policyd against all of this. We, on the other hand, are in favor of the democratization of the Middle East, of course, and we're in favor of doing so with their own internal dynamics. As there is a democratic regime based on people in Turkey and a public prosperity development process, our hearts desire, of course, that this will happen all over the Middle East. But no one can impose it from the outside, not from the outside. The Middle East has to do it with its own dynamics.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0147par0384	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0148par0385	Mr. President, allow me to make a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0147par0386	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0148par0387	Now, as the Minister responded to my question, he read the 92nd article and stated that the bill was brought here under international agreements that Turkey was a party to. However, it is a bilateral agreement between Mr. Secretary, Turkey and Qatar. So you brought this bilateral agreement here based on what international agreement, that was my question. So if you'll give me a clear description, I'd like to know.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0147par0388	Mr. Sky, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0149par0389	Between the two nations...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0150par0390	The agreement between the two nations is an international agreement.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0151par0391	But it's not.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit04spe0152par0392	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit05spe0152par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 697. The commission is here. The government is here. In the case of the government of the Republic of Turkey, the establishment of the military has been established in order to ensure that the defence will be established in accordance with the defence. Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Qatar between Military Education, Defence Industry and the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar Lands has been approved on December 19, 2014. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytug Atcı will speak on behalf of the People's Party. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit05spe0153par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, between the Government of Republic of Turkey 697 and the Government of Qatar, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Amendment of the Dair Law Charter that the Agreement for Co-operation between Military Education and Defence Industry and the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar Lands is appropriate. I salute lawmakers who don't owe their political careers and gains to anyone's shadow. Dear friends, an agreement is being signed between the two sides, the state of the Republic of Turkey and the government of Qatar. We're looking at the reason for the agreement, and the reason for the agreement says: I want to strengthen friendly relations. I'm reading from the State of Foreign Affairs report. It says: I underline the current friendly relations between the two sides three times -- would you look at the situation, friends, in order to establish them in accordance with international rules and agreements between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Qatar government, military education, defence industry, and co-operation in the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar territory? On the one hand, you want to develop friendly relationships, you're getting military training, you're trying to develop a defense industry, and you're deploying Mehmetchik on Qatar territory. Do you ever think of anything like this, anything like this, like this, that's gonna cut your mind off? Where's the friendship in that? Where's it in developing a brotherhood? If you're going to strengthen friendship, you're going to make trade deals, you're going to make art deals, you're going to make cultural deals, you're going to make social deals. But you're not telling the truth, you're doing double, hypocritical politics, as usual, very clear. A friendship agreement does not send soldiers to another country's lands to be developed. Please keep that in mind, and don't make little children laugh at us. Look, I'm going to tell you more serious stories about this deal. Now, you're saying that again: "Sir, Qatar has asked us for such an agreement," Qatar said to us: "Send Mehmedjik to my country." Well, on December 19, 2014, you're signing this agreement. Seventy-two days later, on March 2, 2015, the Foreign Affairs Commission meets. And 17 days from now, March 19th, we meet today at the General Assembly. I served two years in the Foreign Affairs Commission, my friends. This is the first time I've seen a case like this. We usually fight over contracts that wait for years or in line, so let's bring them in, let's pass them. But Qatar will ask you to do it, and you'll see it down at the Foreign Commission in 72 days. Moreover, in the text of the treaty, you will say: "Katar has already completed this process, so he has passed it through his own Assembly." Where does this love come from? Where does this love come from, this friendship? Is that enough? It's not enough. Last week, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality declared Assıniye Bayırı as Qatar Street. So, what's next for you? On the same day, he met with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, Qatar Emiri. You're going to say: "What's the matter with this? Doesn't he meet with Prime Minister Emir?" But who touched the niche so quickly, so quickly, Turkey brought these deals in 72 days, and put them in front of us? People with a little bit of political intelligence, a little bit of foreign policy buildup, they know it's not normal, they know who's behind it, they know who's behind it, they know who's working for Qatar, they know who he's dancing with. The country where Qatar dances or the country under his command is the United States of America. Now do you see what you've done to our country? Now, why would the United States want to do that? Now, look, I'm putting your double policy back in your face. You're saying: "I'm going to develop friendship with Qatar." Well, fine, improve. Is there a deal for this before? Yes, I do. Do you know when? May 23, 2007. On May 23, 2007, you signed an agreement to develop good relations with Qatar, and it wasn't enough, where there was military training and technical and scientific cooperation. So, what did you expect from the deal you made, and you couldn't find it, so you're bringing this deal here today? There's only one goal: to send the Turkish Armed Forces, Mehmetçik....to Qatar lands, there's no difference. Now, look, I don't think the AKP lawmakers are aware of any of this. I've been through this deal before, line by line. This agreement is only an agreement and only to send Mehmetchik to Qatar, so no one bends and bends it here and there. So when you raise your blessed hands, you will raise your hand knowing that you will send the soldier of the Republic of Turkey to Qatar. Tomorrow, God forbid, when something happened to this soldier, I didn't know, if I knew, I wouldn't have lifted this law. You can't say that. I'm warning you, this isn't the right thing to do. As Mr. Minister was just speaking, the former Minister of Development was saying: "Sir, we are the government, we have no authority to send troops. Look, I stress, my AKP MP friends, we have no authority to send troops, but if the Grand Assembly of Turkey approves, we will send them to you," he says. I wonder what our soldier will do there. Come on, okay, in some countries we might need our soldiers. I wonder what our soldier will do in Qatar, for God's sake, someone will tell me. Who's gonna tell me? The Minister of Economy was just sitting here, and now another Minister is sitting here, and there is no Minister of National Defense to inform us about it. I'm sure they've consulted, and I want to know what the Minister or the government will do in Qatar. You have a right to know that, and you have to know why they left when sending these children into the wild hands, if you don't know, then please don't send them. Because this issue was discussed in the Foreign Commission, some questions were asked in the government, and no questions were answered. No one can send my soldier, my child, into the land of the palas pandiras. The government will come here, and they will tell us why these soldiers were sent to Qatar, and they will address your conscience, and you will think. If it's for the benefit of our government, our country, our nation, of course we will, or we won't, but you'll never, ever send these soldiers there without knowing what to do there. It's a matter of conscience. In a moment, I will share my concerns with you in the third article. I'll tell you what these soldiers could have been sent there in return for. A Mehmet-chik would never have a financial price, but I'm about to ask you if you sent Mehmet-chik there or not. That's why I'm already picking on the government. Let him come, let him answer here. You'll never be able to sell our Mehmet-chik into wild hands. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit05spe0154par0020	No personal speaking, no questions. Talks on Article 1 have been completed. Let's vote on item 1...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit05spe0155par0023	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit05spe0154par0024	I'm going to test it, and I'm going to call the number of decisions I have to make. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0154par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The number of decisions was not found in the vote of Article 1 of the Law Bill 697. Now I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Article 2- (1) This applies in the history of Law publication. Ali will speak for himself in the 2nd article. Here you are, Mr. Ali Original.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, on my speech, Mr. Deputy Group President Naci Bostancı Bey took the liberty of saying: "If the government was implementing cult-axis policy, we were close before Assad. Wasn't it Alevi then? Yes, that's right, and then it was Alevi. Sir, wasn't Assad the same Assad then? So, when you gave me your sisterhood photo, sir, was Assad a Democrat when we were on vacation together? I mean, were there freedoms or was there another regime in Syria? Did you do this because Assad changed the regime, went towards the dictatorship? Well, you're contradicting your own argument. Well, it was the same again. Sir, Assad said, yes, there are some problems, let us fix them. If you mean well, contribute to us as a neighboring country, as a friendly country. Well, you haven't been able to change the Constitution in thirty years. You're telling me to change everything in six months. Is that gonna happen? Excuse me. You didn't, what did you do? Sir, the front of Ihvan will surely be opened. The leaders of Ihvan and Muslimin will be released. Here, you have a choice. Ihvan will come to power. I mean, what's it to you? Isn't that Syrian internal policy? Who are you, trying to bring democracy, human rights to another country?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0157par0015	What's it to you?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0016	Well, well, since democracy, the apostle of freedom is my government, for God's sake, since 2011, Bahrain has been unarmed, completely peaceful millions on the street. Why do you support the King there, why do you support the King of Bahrain? When Saudi tanks enter and violate human rights, why don't you tell your brother to stop? So, is there a democracy in Qatar, a democracy in Saudi Arabia? Isn't Saudi Arabia the cruelest, most oppressive dictator in the region? You're arm in arm with the Saudi King. Oh, so it's not democracy, it's your... Leave him alone, don't you have problems with democracy in your own country? Didn't people die on the trip? Do you still not bring the law of the police state under the internal security law to pressure people? Someone's going to you tomorrow, sir, to the totalitarian regime. I'm going to support certain groups of people who want democracy, certain groups of terror. What kind of logic is that, dear friends? Look, is there any country that's threatening Qatar right now? Tell me, should the government tell you, does Qatar need us to train them from a military standpoint, sending soldiers there? There's no need for that. I've just asked Mr. Secretary a question, but I can't get an answer, so I'll ask you again from here, please ask: there's a central command force in Qatar. You're sending in a military unit to join an international task force that could be formed here in the future? Let's know that we're voting, and now you're raising your finger. Why does the soldier go there? To whom does Qatar go to protect him? Sir, against terror...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0158par0020	Against Iran.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0021	Is there hostility with Iran, you say? What's going on? Against Iran...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0158par0022	Iran is restless.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0023	Wait, you're a pretty good confessor, aren't you? The government's this way? So you're positioning Turkey on the Sunni front in a Sunni bloc? Isn't the Republic of Turkey a secular, democratic republic? I just asked, did the Republic of Turkey lose its secularity without us knowing it? What is your business with Iran, what is your problem with Iran? Your group vice president just came out and said: "We're friends with Iran. You're the enemy, the mindset. It's beautiful, you're the subconscious. This is not for the benefit of Turkey, my friends. You be friendly with everyone in the region, but against a country we say don't drive Mehmet-chik to the front, that's our problem. Look, if you go with that head, you'll hit it like you did in Syria. Even America says today: "We need to sit down with Syria and talk to him. You still support that killer ISIS, who has blood on his hands and eyes and cuts off people's heads and burns them alive, with your understanding, with your perspective.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0159par0024	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0025	Oh, for God's sake, don't support that understanding. (AK PARTY ACCENT) Your own MP says, "Yahu is the enemy of Iran, and I am in this movement against Iran." What does that mean, isn't that the same mentality? The army against Iran will go away, he says.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0160par0026	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0156par0027	But ISIS is the same, you're on the same side. Look, this is a wrong policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I invite you to come to common sense, to policy in the interests of the country, to salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0161par0031	Yes, I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0162par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I remind you once again that you sent the Turkish Armed Forces to Qatar with Bill 697 rows. In my speech on Article 1, I said we were expecting an explanation from the government. No response has been received from the AKP, nor from the government, which has always been owned by the AKP. Is there a servant of God among you who knows what the Turkish Armed Forces will do in Qatar? If there is, I beg you, let him swear in the name of God, for the sake of God; and if anyone knows, let him speak. If, as the motive says, he's just going for friendship, people, don't make the world laugh at us. What are you going to do, give the soldier a bouquet of flowers and send them there for friendship? Don't do this. I'll tell you my concerns. I'm saying that you signed a training-design agreement with the United States of America. Now, you will send the Turkish soldier to Qatar, where you will train and equip the opposition of Syria. That's my bet. It's a personal claim, go out and say no, we're not going to do it. Say, "We really don't want blood flowing in Syria." If you train the opponents armed in Qatar, and continue to give weapons to their hands, you will increase your burden in the blood flowing there. Unfortunately, there is the plague of this government in the blood that has been flowing so far. Turkey has killed its brother with weapons, come, don't let it; that's my first claim. My second claim is that you're sending our soldier on an international mission to the central command force of the United States, which has a base in Qatar, just like the Incirlik airport. I mean, you're using our boys for an international job and a dirty one. I'm claiming it's from me, and I'm telling you this through research. Let him go out and say, "No, I'm not sending it." We want to hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0163par0042	Will you believe it?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0162par0043	If you come out with the honor of the government, with honor, I'm not sending my soldier there for training. I'm going to believe it or I'm not sending my soldier on an international mission. I'm going to believe it, it's going to go on record. Then my concern is to protect my soldier, to protect our young. It must be your duty, my friends, and it must be yours. Before you raise your hands, ask your government for the answers to these questions, for God's sake! No, we don't send it for training, our soldier will have no international work, where we send it with America, only to Qatar. Let them say, "Let me see it in the record, and I will rest in peace." Would the government of the entire Republic of Turkey lie? He shouldn't. Especially when it comes to Mehmet-chik. So, do I have any other claims? Yeah, yeah. The AKP I've known for 12 years won't do it for free. Given what you've done so far, I'm guessing the AKP won't do it for free.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0164par0045	Ten billion dollars, we hear, 10 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0162par0046	So I just asked him a question, and he said, "We don't have that kind of financial concern." I'd like to repeat from here: We're talking about Qatar, who gave Israel 2.5 billion euros. Friends, again, I bring to your attention the state of Qatar, which, according to some sources, has contributed 2.5 billion euros to the Israeli government, according to some sources. It says: I'm going to pour $2 to $4 billion into Turkey, to the stock market. Let's go! Come and say, no such thing. It's the same Qatar who sent us $10 million, if you remember, as if we needed it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0164par0047	10 billion, 10 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0162par0048	For what? This $10 million is supposed to help people from Syria. But what did you do? With that money, you provided logistical support and sent these people back to war. So, a very famous stock speculator -- you know the name -- says that the best export property in Turkey is the Turkish Armed Forces. If you do so, if you expel our soldier, Allah's two-bit stock speculator will be removed and the best export property in Turkey is the Turkish Armed Forces. Yeah, don't make me say that, guys. Look, there are some things we can discuss over parties. The Turkish Armed Forces should also be discussed in a position above parties. Sending Mehmet Chikgik there must be in a position above all parties. The political material, especially the money stuff, should never be in any way. But if someone were to do politics on the cult-political-commerce axis, then anything would be expected. Last question: Imagine, in your twelve years of Middle Eastern foreign policy, we are successful. Is there anything you can say? Is there only one thing you're sending my soldier to Qatar? Will you not fear God? You send these young people to a land with dark spots with various relationships, such as Qatar. You have no right to do this. You have no right to send our children to Qatar to die, to make them dirty, to send them away in no way, my friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0165par0052	Thank you. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0166par0054	According to 86, we have a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0165par0055	In accordance with Article 86, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP will speak. Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0167par0058	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, both Mr. President and Prime Minister, the ministers of the AKP government, the AKP's competent friends and AKP MPs, are immediately trying to eliminate their criticism when they take the stand. Well, that's nice, and Mr. President is responding to all criticisms against him with the court, responding to criminal trials. The number of cases he's filed since he became President has exceeded 100. Now, the national will is not just the AKP MPs and the will they represent in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In fact, respect for national will is also respect for the legislative process, legislatures, laws of law. Today, the Turkish Grand National Assembly does not respect the legislative process, but the national will is blocked by those who talk too much about national will. Mr. President wants 400 deputies traveling all over Turkey. Well, nice, if it's not 400 MPs, it's 367, and if it's not 330, it's OK, and if it's not, it's OK. In fact, he's willing to be in power. Now, just when all of this is happening, he thinks, in his own words, a Kurdish boy is saying at a group meeting -- three times -- we're not going to make you president. Well, the heart of the President won't stand for it, either.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0168par0061	He's got a lot of nerve.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0167par0062	Now, yeah, yeah... it's not holding up anyway. You're looking at the latest research, 78 per cent of the Turkish people versus the presidential system. Now, when that happens, the President is actually surprised at what he's going to say. He says that if he were a dictator in this country, for God's sake, can you call me a dictator? But immediately the court sentences a university boy to a year in prison. So, Recep Tayyip Erdogan was a dictator, as he called it. So, if it wasn't for the dictator, would a college kid go to prison? Now, in what democratic country would you say insulting a state elder is the reason for arrest? If there is an insult, the elements of the crime will be met with a punishment at the end of the trial, but people will be arrested for insulting the President or arrested for insulting the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0169par0065	He has no right to insult me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0167par0066	I'm saying something else, you don't understand. ... andinsulting state elders will be treated as if it were an arrest clause. This is a rule of law that is incompatible with the state of law. So arrest is a separate institution, and punishment for crimes is a separate institution. If young college students are arrested and thrown in jail for insulting the state elders in a country, there is dictatorship in that country. So what do we say? Are we going to call Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan a democratic person? A cat is called a cat. If you're really rescinding democracy in this country, if you're supporting an authoritarian, totalitarian understanding of governance, everyone will call you dictator. Then you won't be offended or offended by being called dictator. Look, the esteemed MPs, the Justice and Development Party, in particular Mr. President Kabatat, drank raki in Dolmabahçe. He said, "They did not; Mr. Sümeyya said that Erdoğan was assassinated. Room TV, Sledgehammer, Ergenekon, Sauna gang cases are all bullshit. Now, when Turkey is supposed to stand up at the Grand National Assembly and apologize to these people, my dear, it's not even getting shot, we've been involved in this. Mr. Bkent Arinc says they've set up a scheme on me. We said that on this stand five years ago. I said that on this stand in 2010. Didn't Mr. Bulent Arinc realize at the time that he was being set up over himself? We were seeing it, and he wasn't? Dear lawmakers, if we respect the national will, we must first respect the rights of minorities in parliament and in society, because if you remove the minority from the majority, democracy will collapse. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0170par0072	Thank you. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system, and I'd like to ask them to deliver the ballots to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for a vote. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game, and the ballot bearing his signature on the name and soda, again delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Please don't leave the General Assembly, friends with compasses. [[The vote continued.]] A clear vote on ratification of a Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Qatar, Military Education, Defence Industry and Turkish Armed Forces in Qatar Lands: ▪ Number of votes used: 211 [[x]] Rise Wishes, Muhammad Bilal Macit The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will resume talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and Kırıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 45 MPs; the Law Proposal and Plan and Budget Commission Report on Amendments in some Law and Law Rules; and the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the President of the Plan and Budget Commission. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Talks on the proposal, which was considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, were proposed to come after Article 21 in the last chapter of the merger, and a new clause was discussed on this proposal, which the Commission participated in with the absolute majority of the Commission. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to call Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı to the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0171par0098	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. An important regulation on public employees, or rather, the dismissal of all executive staffs in public institutions and institutions is expected. Let me start by saying, as the National Party of Action, we find it principledly positive to make an arrangement on this issue. It's just about the motion...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0170par0100	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Tin Man, just a minute. The MPs who have to go out, please come out immediately and keep our silence. I'll add a minute, Mr. Kalay. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0172par0105	Again, let me say, as the National Party of Action, we find it principledly positive to make an arrangement on this issue. However, there are criticisms and things that we disagree with in terms of procedure and context regarding the motion. For once, it's not clear what you want to do, it's not clear. The following is: 687 rankings on the agenda of the General Assembly, which is discussed by the Commission. There is a similar arrangement in Article 23 of the Lu Law Bill, but in context, they are different. The bill envisions the appointment of 7,000 and more executives to the prime minister's central counsel, while the motion envisions the appointment of 7,600 and more executives. In this context, some, like the SEC, like the State Staff, the status of our heads of institutions, such as TİKA, has been reduced in a sense to the general manager level. So it is clear that you are not clear about this, either. This motion, which stipulates the additive to Article 375, should be discussed primarily in the form of procedure. Because the 375th Amendment shall regulate joint financial provisions that will be applied to public employees for the purpose and purpose of extraction. See, I'm going to read the name of Judgement 375, and I'm going to pass the amendments to the laws, and he's going to tell the State Officials and other Public Servants about the Month of Officers and the Payment of Admins and Extra Compensation. The item to add determines the positions of those who will be relieved of duty. Hence, it is not a compatible arrangement. However, you know, there are two separate laws regarding the appointment of public executives: Law relating to the Admission Act in Ministrys 2451 and Associations No. 2451. In this law, public executives will be appointed by joint decrees and a trilateral decree. In Public Institutions and Institutions 2477, which are excluded from the scope of Law 2451, there are also positions and executive staffs to be appointed with the approval of the Minister. Thus, there are two separate legal arrangements for the appointment of public officials. Our proposal here is to remove public executives from office with a separate, separate legal arrangement, or to add it to Code 375, in terms of the procedure, will not be right, in terms of form, and will make Decision 375 more complicated. Dear lawmakers, this clause determines the positions for which all executives will be appointed in the event of dismissal, except for some exceptions in public institutions and institutions. Technically, the lack of this field is generally considered reasonable in terms of setting up a framework. However, for thousands of trained, experienced personnel, there will be a series of individual sled crews. An idle, paid, ATM officer is foreseen. Therefore, it will be a waste of both our experienced human resources and the resources of our nation. In fact, what needs to be done is the implementation of the reform on the staff regime, where this issue is being organised. And in this regard, our view is that the formation of political positions that will come and go with governments, such as the assistant secretary, the deputy secretary, should be arranged for the government to come and go as political staff, so that there may be no reason to create sleds, ATM officers. On the other hand, one criticism is that so far, we think that those who disagree have a different and special purpose in setting up such an arrangement. There's no such thing, it's a necessary arrangement, so if you're saying we're doing it for him, I'll ask you if you've just come to your senses, if your token has fallen in twelve years. This arrangement also facilitated their dismissal. There will be a way to prevent a mistrial in arbitrary practices because of the fact that he will be appointed as a deposed officer and that some rights will be eliminated. In an environment where there is a process of intimidation and weariness in the bureaucracies, a driver's license, rights and rights to executive staffs, where staffing has reached its height, the appointment of public employees, the decision of AKP agencies and the advocacy union, where the party agency and ally union do not want are expelled, and they are suspended from their duties, such an arrangement will pave the way for more arbitrary and unfair practices. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there will also be a discrepancy in the two separate clauses of this law, which is the bag of the law we're talking about. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two different wills on the same issue. The following is: A framework arrangement for dismissals in the Prime Minister's and ministries has been made for the Ministry of Youth and Sports, given the provision of the 21st Article adopted yesterday, and a special arrangement for the Ministry of Youth and Sports. There's no explanation for such a contradiction. See -- I took the proposal with me -- the deputy director general at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the counselor, the chairman of the review board, all the staff of the legal advisors -- the county manager, the federation secretary, the youth director, the director of the youth center, those who are listed in these positions are assigned to investigative staffs. According to additional indicators, the framework arrangement envisions a more consistent posting than I do. In addition to consultations, expertise, inspectors, the appointment of these staffs is foreseen, but the Ministry of Youth and Sports does not comply with the same arrangement, and differences are being made. This will cause a clear violation of the principles of equality and justice of the Constitution. In the 21st article adopted yesterday, we have other criticisms. Friends, can something be written in the matter as to the laws of the court? It's against the principle of separation of forces. The second joke of yesterday's 21st article states that the court's decisions regarding the cases they filed were as follows. It can't be arranged, so it's against the principle of separation of forces. Again, the third joke states that conditions in 657 have not been sought for one time each for each staff, as well as for the staff of youth services and sports district manager, the director of the youth centre and the director of the youth centre. So the legislation on promotions is bypassed. That's the wrong arrangement. There's also a motion to dismiss the State's decision on this matter. Another review of ours will be career-related. This is also a problem for careers. The arrangement makes it possible to appoint career professionals without the necessary conditions and indirect methods as a result of a long and difficult process. A career career with the competition exam is envisioned to be appointed out of the profession by perforating the terms of employment. There is a transitional staff or a sled crew for the staff in the management duties of careers. It is also an arrangement that can lead to political and arbitrary appointments, rather than the need for service, due to additional indicator differences. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0173par0118	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Rahmi Küreli of Love.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0174par0121	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the Law Proposal, 688 rows, to be added to the article after Article 21. I hereby salute the grand jury. Now, of course, you have to go through the process, and then you have to look at what's really in the material. It's not the basics without order. For one thing, one of the most important misdeeds of procedure... is that, of course, there's also a process of effective and efficient legislation... where the House should be doing its legislatures properly. So from this angle, when we did 12 hours of work last night -- which you know, we started at two, it was about one and a half in the evening, twelve hours later -- a clause, an additive proposal came up. Before that, we weren't given any information about this, we weren't discussed, and suddenly, at midnight, this was brought up here, immediately in the Plan Budget Commission, with a majority of 21 MPs. For one thing, we find it extremely informal. So before that...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0175par0124	We've been through this...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0174par0125	You can talk later, when it's your turn. Before that, we needed to be given detailed information about these matters. Then, friends, let's move the commissions, then, and we'll discuss them all in the General Assembly. Why are there commissions? Because the commissions are for discussion. So without arguing on these commissions, bring in an additive here, let's get it out of here. It's not gonna work if you just give us ten minutes, 15 minutes of information here. We've already had objections to that, we've discussed it, and Mr. President's involved, and we've brought it to this day, and we've been able to work on it as well as on the matter. I'll tell you this, and I'll stress that this method is wrong. On the other hand, of course, we wondered where this material came from. Turns out, dear friends, now, you know, there's a bag of laws in 687 rows, waiting, waiting, waiting, and then he's supposed to be there, and it turns out there were friends there. As a matter of fact, that bag of legislation, the Law on Business Health and Safety, which emerged based on mineral accidents in Soma, Ermenek, and this, was intended to eliminate serious problems in working life, take the necessary measures, tighten control standards, and one important thing is that the whole community, the people, expect it to come out as soon as possible. How many substances is it made up of? There's 89, there's 1, there's a temporary clause, a total of 90. And let's see, folks, what we're talking about today, is this not in Bill 687? Now, I got this message from here: So you've drawn, you've taken, you've taken, you've installed, you've assembled, you've put this bag into our law. What about the remaining 89 points, don't you think you'll get it out? Then why did he work, then why did you run the commissions, why did we bring them to the agenda of this place, where the opposition was written? We've created such an expectation in society. Which is very important. We're always giving what we can, what we can, what we can, about job safety and health. I hereby declare, dear friends, that you will not take it off. You've drawn one of the 90 articles, and the rest of them, 89, don't matter at all. Bring this in, take it out here. That's the whole problem, that's what it looks like. I would also like to point out that I am deeply at fault, and I imagine that millions of people who are waiting for this law to come out of the law on occupational health and safety will be seriously disappointed here. Now, on the other hand, we're looking at its content. We also bring a standard for public executives who have been relieved of duty, according to the additional indicators defined there. So when who was removed from office -- according to the indicator, according to the task he did -- where can he be assigned to? A neat system has been established over him, and the standard has been established. Well, friends, when you're bringing in the standard, on the other hand, you're legitimizing the dismissal of public officials. So there's a standard now. So it turns out that no more victims, no more problems. It's obvious where he'll be assigned when he's relieved of duty. We put these in, and no longer a victim is born. It's being tried to make sense of something like that. No, guys, there's no such thing. Resolved is a serious victim. Where he is, where he will be assigned next, after being relieved of duty, does not eliminate the victim. And then, on the other hand, I think, where did this arrangement come from, what does it need? You've been in power for twelve and a half years, why are you bringing it now, two months while you're running? So you guys are planning on taking someone off the force? What's that? We'd like to know what it's all about here, and what it's all about. Gene, another matter: Dear lawmakers must make general regulation of legislation. And here you are, one by one, deciding where to appoint who is relieved of which assignment. Well, friends, it's not the job of the living, it's the job of the running. There's a judgment when the executive does it wrong. Now, you take the path to life, you put it in the system, and you define everything by living. In a sense -- when you look at it -- it looks like it's limited, it's tied up, but on the other hand, as I just said -- you're trying to make a decision by enforcing the power of the administration and in the same way all the powers of the judiciary, by enforcing a law. I think that's wrong, too. If we go into detail, of course, he needs to be specific about a few technical issues. Dear friends, for example, in Article (2), the path of employment is automatically opened. Look, let me read this: if there are no available staffs or positions available for postings on demand, according to the last sentence of the joke referred to by those appointed by the third joke, because, you know, the staff is open, it is obvious, it is determined in the budget law -- there is a need for staff or positions for these without further processing. What kind of automatic law is it, my friends? I don't know how it works. You don't get the Minister of Finance's opinion, you don't get the President of State's opinion, you don't get the budget, you don't get the budget, you get the people you hire, you get the people you hire, you get the automatic staff, and when you leave, that staff goes backwards again, and that staff goes away. That's not an arrangement. Where in God's name is this arrangement? Is there such a system called automatic staff outside budget laws? I mean, I find it very difficult to understand a government that doesn't know its account. It's very important that, as a man of state bureaucracy, he knows the government's account, everything, and he does it according to the way he does it. Gene, in the article (3) you sentence him to take advantage of his previous duties during the two years in the position and position appointed for public executives who were dismissed. When you look at it, it looks like it's fine at first, so you've taken the person, of course, except for a number of extra payments, and you've given it your old salary in a sense for two years about the nature of the mission, and you're giving it your rights. But what happens in two years? Let's just say it's 15 years before one retires. What's it gonna be, fellas? After that, won't that be a victim? I mean, I don't know what you're doing with two years. Guys, the last thing I want to stress is that I just told you, there's an intervention in the field of administration through legislation. Appreciation, which should be used by the administration, is being eliminated by law. On the other hand, when he's deposed, people go to trial, friends. The road to administrative court is open to administrative judiciary, and they make some decisions there. Now here you are, in a sense, putting pressure on the management's decisions. Now, what did the judgment used to do? He was returning to his post. What happens now, when he's reinstated? You've determined that here, which one will be valid? It's clear where he'll go when he's relieved of duty here, but the judge also said: "No, let him come to his former post, because there are such judgments. There's a serious uncertainty. On the other hand, there was a procedure, a principle for the trial to work. The judiciary was considering the victims, trying to ensure that there was no victimhood, both by the decision to call off the cancellations and by the decision to stop the execution. Now there's a feeling that there will be no victimization as a result. In a sense, you're indirectly affecting the decisions of the judiciary. Anyway, there's no obvious victimization in this, so the judge will look at it, and he'll make a decision other than that. We've talked about it over and over as we negotiated the bag law in the summer, and we've been shown certain decisions. As you know, there were provisions about the dismissal of public officials, we went to the Constitutional Court, and they canceled. There, we faced a political power, a government that suffered greatly from judicial decisions. The decision made by the judge is that he is assigned to his former post, which we do not accept. But now that you've taken it through legislation, you see it as an intervention in the conduct of the judiciary in a sense, Mr. Secretary, and now you're doing the same thing here by the legislature. You're opening up a way for an intervention through the law. At these angles, we think it is necessary that this clause be removed from the text of the law, which is intended to be committed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0176par0141	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. On behalf of him, Mr. Haydar Akar... Mr. Aytug Atcı will speak instead of Haydar Akar. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0177par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a personal pledge on the 22nd article added to Bill 688 rows. I salute the MPs who don't owe their political careers and gains to anyone's shadow. Dear friends, we've had a long discussion about this in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. It then took its place on the agenda, taking the number of 687 rows. At that time, there were some fine materials in Bill 687, but it was the lowest, most unconscionable, most ruthless substance. You were paying off your debts to the Ermenekites in the Bill of Business Health and Safety in 687 rows, and you were paying off your debts to the Ermenekites. You first killed the miners in Ermenek, and now you're cheating, because you've made it more important than your debt to Ermenek. Again, in that bill, in occupational health, we were sort of solving Zonguldak's 100-year-old deed, and now you've cheated the Zonguldaks. You've seen the Zonguldak's claim problem at a lower level than the removal of some bureaucrats, and you've seen it less important. It's not enough, you've deceived the Jaffa Ceylanpınar. In fact, I don't know if he's here, but you've also disappointed Mr. Faruk Çelik.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0178par0149	What did he cheat on?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0177par0150	You disappointed Mr. Faruk Çelik because in his last term, he had promised to bring a significant problem to him, but now you have failed him by not bringing this bill here.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0179par0151	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0177par0152	I don't know if you care about Urbana, but we all care about Ceylanpinars.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0179par0153	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0177par0154	Now, look, what are you doing with this stuff? Let's just put the words aside. You're doing two things with this clause two months before the election. Look, you're saying to senior bureaucrats: "O senior bureaucrats, if you don't follow my orders, I'll take you out of there, I'll move you to counsel, and you can't do anything if you go to justice." Well, don't these senior bureaucrats, the undersecretaries, the undersecretary, the office heads, your people, they're in on it? I do. So, what do you call them? You're saying: "If we stay in power, we'll protect you." You're saying: "Mr. MP, Minister, you're going to leave, we're going to stay, we're going to go, you're going to go, we're going to follow your orders." You're saying to them, "Don't worry, if we stay in power, we'll protect you, but if we leave power, if another government goes, we're going to take you out of office, we're going to send you to the office." You brought in a three-page text, and in this three-page text you brought in, you clamped bureaucrats like this, and you clamped them. The bureaucrats who think like you are already carrying out your orders, but God knows what you want from those bureaucrats, there's no way they'll ever be able to do it. You say: "Don't worry, even if the CHP is in power, you will never be removed from your duties, you will be counseled. You allow them to work under you, that's what you do. And you're saying to the bureaucrats who resist you, you're saying, "I'll relieve you of your duties." The bureaucrat used to tell you, "If you do, there are still competent judges, I'll go to court, I'll go to court, I'll turn like a lion." Now you're saying, "It won't make any sense to you to go to justice, because I've appointed you as an advisor." I think this clause is politically embarrassing, so withdraw it.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0180par0157	Mr. Haydar Akar, will you speak? He's not talking. We've moved on to the QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0181par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the total number of executives brought in with this arrangement to be relieved of duty with the supplement? Is there anyone in this that can go backwards? If so, how will this sacrifice be resolved? Would you consider a new arrangement in this bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0182par0163	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0183par0164	Nameless, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0182par0165	Nameless... okay. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0184par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding Mr. Light's question, we need to first state that this provision is not made in particular concerning the dismissal of officers. So, in other words, the dismissal of officers is not made or made difficult. In view of the statement, when they are dismissed without notice, there is a neutral arrangement. This statement clearly prevents an arrangement that will encourage and enable officers to be removed from office easier. You know, civil servants can already be dismissed. This is clearly stated in Law 657. It's just that whatever procedure he's been assigned to, he's been ordered to be relieved of duty in the same way. I mean, let's just say, a jointly appointed staff, the title, that person, you know, gets suspended in the same way. Therefore, in no way does this arrangement reveal the right to a reassignment, the opportunity. Therefore, in connection with the question of Mr. Light, there is no such number, since it does not provide such an opportunity, nor does it have such a purpose. Second: As with all administrative decisions, all decisions on these issues, on the issues mentioned in this article, are subject to judicial supervision without question. As I've just tried to put it, he's not making any additional arrangements at this point because there's any neutral arrangement, in favor or against, that there's no ruling on dismissals. So there's no way that any number can be put out here, and the judiciary will continue to be subjected to the same procedure, as it is now, as it is, to whatever procedure it is being taken, to the control of the judicial body. It's just that, really, officers have always been suspended, taken in the past, but there's no standardization of the positions they've been given, when they've been taken, when they've been assigned. In the past, they've been able to be assigned missions that have nothing to do with their current positions... so let's say an undersecretary is removed, one of them is assigned to the department's office, one of them is assigned to other tasks, and there are numerous examples of that. So here we have to go to a uniformity and standardization, and we have to go to prevent injustice. In fact, it provides a serious assurance to bureaucracy, to frighten them, to make them more than a veiled threat to them, but if it were, they would be removed from duty and assigned there. Like that, if there was an expression that meant it would be true, the comments would be true, but when they were removed from duty... they were already removed from duty, which is very clear. They can be picked up right now.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0185par0170	Well, here you go. He'll go to trial, he'll come back from trial. Why do we need such an arrangement, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0184par0171	They can go to trial here, too. I mean, for him, it's just... he's suspended in one position, then he's assigned to the same position. At very different times, different dates, different ministries, the same dignitaries can be assigned to very different assignments. That's not true either. I mean, there's an undersecretary here who needs to be put on another mission in a manner that's consistent with his term and position, and he doesn't have to be completely insulted, he needs to maintain his rights, and it needs to be standardized, so there's a need to be similar practices in all institutions, in all ministries. That's what it's all about, very clearly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0186par0174	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0187par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question with your wisdom. It is being studied by the State Department and Department of Justice that a crisis table has been formed concerning this Süleyman Shah Station, that this transfer was not based on international agreements, that Turkey had abandoned its land and that it had been committed as a result of treason, and that Syria could have evacuated the current Sulejman Shah Turbate by the United Nations decision. While these studies are being conducted at the crisis table, it is urgent that these should be done a long time ago, Mr. Secretary. Have these studies not been done, but Turkey has been brought to this difficult situation, and where are these studies at? If you could give us some information, we'd be happy for the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0188par0179	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0189par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, this has been discussed a lot. Many of the information that I think you are already a foundation, but first we have to say, perhaps, that it is a violation of the right to carry it, so it is important if it is violated by international agreements that Turkey owns. The most important issue in these discussions is, of course, the others are important, but I think it's about this. There's our thesis, our acceptance, that there's no breach, there's no weakening, so as a result, a certain amount of land in the territory of the Syrian state's sovereignty is considered Turkish soil. Now, of course, it can be said that the place is clear, specific -- for the area before the transport, for the location -- so these privileges, such as these rights were given for it, for it, for its location, could come to the agenda of claims. Now, under normal circumstances, these arguments can be justified in situations where everything is normal -- in terms of international relations -- you can deal with it fully, and you can deal with it in terms of sovereignty, a power that dominates its sovereignty, a force that dominates its territory, a state structure. But there's a very special situation here, where special circumstances can be accepted as legal grounds in international law, as well as in domestic law. So what I'm trying to say is that a transport here, a transport like this, gives us the same rights in a new place. First of all, this is the same amount of land within the territory of the Syrian state, known and known as the sovereignty of the Syrian state, and there is no loss in that sense. It's symbolic, of course, of course, but it's symbolic, as a result. It's an honorable gain, it has to be protected, and as a result, the gain continues in this land, and that right remains protected. Is it an international violation of international rights? It's my belief that it's not a breach, it's extraordinary circumstances, it's extraordinary circumstances. As I was just trying to say, if everything were normal, a transport like this could be discussed in terms of international law, but it can't be debated now, because that state doesn't have the right to protect it there. If he could protect it, if he had power, if he had the ability to protect the rights of Turkey, such as the embassy, before he moved in, then the discussion, the evaluation of this transport could be done in an environment where this was provided.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0190par0183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0191par0184	Mr. President, I'd like to make a small statement about this.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0190par0185	Here, take your seat, just a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0191par0188	Minister, there's something here that needs to be cleared up. None of what you say happens. Not because of this: According to the 1923 Lausanne Agreement, the land at Caber Castle was left to Turkey with an international agreement, but the place next to the now abandoned dam, which is now broken down and abandoned, is an accepted area in place between Syria and the two states, but where it is now being moved is not an agreement with Syria. So that doesn't come true. So, the place that is now abandoned is also accepted by Syria as the land of Turkey. So, the place he's moving to now is not going to be the same status, because there's no deal. In that regard, Syria is justified. So it's wrong to say that it's not going to be an argument against us internationally, either.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0190par0190	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0191	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0190par0192	I'll give you my word on your location for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the place before the move was protected by international agreements, protected or secured by those rights.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0193par0197	The first one to be moved in Syria...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0198	I'm telling you where I was before I moved in.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0193par0199	The first time he moved was at Fort Caber...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0200	No, the next thing you know, it's Syria.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0193par0201	Only with Syria.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0202	Yes, with Syria... it's valid, it's legal, it's internationally legal.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0193par0203	It's valid.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0204	Now, that's why we say it's temporary. If Syria says that, that's what he can say: no, where he's moving now, I don't have an international legal consent, it's not valid, you can't carry it alone. Therefore, it's the old place that's protected for you. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0193par0205	But you've left. He says so.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0206	Well, let him leave. Could he have said something?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0194par0207	Mr. Halaçoglu, please...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0192par0208	I mean, so... of course, it's debatable, it's all debatable. But, then, if it's protected by our international agreements there, fine, fine. You get security, you're the government, I'll move out...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0195par0209	Minister, Turkey must protect it, Syria will not.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0194par0210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0196par0215	There was a motion for a change.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0197par0216	It's not a suggestion, it's a substance violation. It's a matter violation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0198par0217	Yes, the motion has been passed, the substance has been boiled.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0199par0218	I was wrong. I'm sorry. There are three motions on the new subject, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the first joke (a) in Article 18 of Article 18 (a), which is envisioned to be added to Article 22 of the Law, and Article 375, which has been violated. Mihrimah Belma Line Recep Special Ramadan Can Shuay Albay Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat "The executive staffs of the prime minister's central advisors, who have been removed from the post or were relieved of their mandates, and who have been placed in the executive staffs of 7600 and higher figures, who are in the executive staffs with an additional number of 7,000, are the prime minister's advisors," he said. Congressmans, I'm going to read the motions that I'm going to make, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 22 of Article 22 after Article 21 of the 688 Yellow Numbered Law Proposal. Erkan Akçay Murat Basesgioğlu Faruk Bal The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Riza Özturk chooses Vahaap Aytun Çiray Haydar Akar Rahmi is the Way of Love Does the Commission participate in the same motions as read?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0200par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0199par0241	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0201par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0199par0243	Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk will speak on the proposals, and then Mr. Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0202par0245	Mr. President, we would like to propose that the new Article 22 which has just been violated be removed from the proposal text. This is the Constitution I have. So this is the Constitution, which former Interior Minister Efkan Ala said he didn't know him on the stand, and this is the Constitution that Efkan Ala was sworn on when he was appointed minister from the outside. In Article 125 of this Constitution, the judiciary is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. It's being tested. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important features of the state of law is the fact that the administration's actions and procedures are subject to judicial control of the first condition. When you enter law school, what is the state of law? The answer to that question is: If the actions and actions of law enforcement can be controlled by the judiciary or if the government can act in accordance with its control, it is the state of law. Now, in our government, there's a lot of debate about the dismissal of government officials or civil servants. Of course, no matter what way a public servant or officer takes office, he must be dismissed in the same way as the principle of parallelity in the system, because an administrative procedure must be legal in both shapes, cause, purpose, and management's discretion is never absolute and limitless. The administration's discretion is limited to the right to public benefit, which also recognizes the right to acknowledge that administration and binds it. First of all, the administration must consider whether or not there is any public benefit in its actions and procedures. For political purposes, for personal gain, or for other reasons, and for fun, administrative transactions are subject to an absolute mistrial by the judiciary. It is not the duty of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is the duty of public officials to be appointed in such a manner, or to determine what to do after they are relieved of duty, as is the duty of law enforcement. What do you want to do with it? With this, the unfair and arbitrary actions of the administration are being tried to establish a legal basis for legal legitimacy. It's time to put aside the sloppyness of life, dear friends. Look, the carelessness of this legislature, the carelessness of law enforcement, has also driven this Speaker maddened. I am against this fundamental law when it comes to duty. The Parliament must act under the duties imposed on it by the Civil Code and by the Constitution. The administration and the executive body must do so as a principle of the separation of forces in the Constitution, and everyone must know that they are limited to laws and law when they are doing their duty, when each person, every institution, are using their authority from the Constitution. So we think this is a clause that shouldn't be in the legal state, and we demand that it be removed from the draft text. I want the motion accepted. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0203par0250	Thank you. The other speaker is Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0204par0254	Mr. President, I have received a pledge regarding the 22nd amendment, which has been committed. I salute you all. This material is trying to bring in an arrangement for the dismissal of bureaucrats, officers. He's trying to bring order. When he says, don't think he's making it a regular. That's what we're told, but it doesn't make it regular, it makes it fun, and we're asking, what's your real goal? What's your real purpose? What are your intentions? As far as we know, there was this arrangement in the Employment Safety Bill, Article 23 of the bag bill, which came out of the Health Commission and stood in line at the General Assembly. With certain changes, an operation in the middle of the night tried to make an end of it yesterday. So we reacted to it, and I said, "Well, I mean, I thought, I got my notes, and we wondered, "Who is the night manager of the late-night operation?" Now, in Article 21, dear friends, we have a motion. I hereby request that they read our amendment motion on Article 21 and now read the grounds for the removal of the 22nd article I'm speaking on from this proposal, especially from my friends, the members of the Justice and Development Party group, the government and the director of the Commission. Please reread our reasons. We don't read intentions; there's a saying in Asia Minor, and I knew he'd say "Omer" because of the shrinking of his mouth. We understand your intentions as you bring in these plans. Those two reasons are the ones that prove and establish that intention. In the amendment motion of Article 21, we said that 20 regional managers and 40 regional vice principals will be assigned to research staffs at the General Directorate of the Credit Housing Institution; they are being organised. However, it is alleged that the government has been working to move its branch managers, branch managers, dorm managers, vice principals to the investigative staff. We have written it down on our grounds, and you have proved that in the change you made in Article 21 yesterday, you have demonstrated this with the new violation in Article 22. We said that the new Article 22 of the 22nd article, which has been violated, could lead to extensive public bureaucracy, including various possible problems. Such a comprehensive arrangement would be more appropriate if a new framework, legal arrangement, and the proper evaluations were made. What should we call it? Is there a more reasonable criticism of opposition? However, dear friends, you are proposing a change in Article 22, which proves that reason is justified, so you are changing it before it changes. Oh, my God! You're changing it without changing it; what more can we say? I mean, seriously, your intentions are not pure, and I'm sorry, but you're incompetent. If you had done what we said, the four heads would have been examined, evaluated, and we would have given more as a positive contribution as opposition, and we're trying to give more, but I don't know if it's worth it or not. The Justice and Development Party has no legal awareness, no state consciousness, and no tradition, no rules. With that understanding, it's not run by the government, it's not run by the company, it's not run by the tribe. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0205par0260	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the first joke (a) in Article 18 of Article 18 (a), which is envisioned to be added to Article 22 of the Law, and Article 375, which has been violated. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends "The executive staffs of the prime minister's central advisors, who have been removed from the post or were relieved of their mandates, and who have been placed in the executive staffs of 7600 and higher figures, who are in the executive staffs with an additional number of 7,000, are the prime minister's advisors," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0206par0268	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0205par0269	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0207par0270	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0208par0271	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0205par0272	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The additional provision is intended for the appointment of public officials in executive staffs identified as 7,000 to the prime minister's counsel staff. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the motion for a new clause violation: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The motion has been accepted and a new substance has been violated, but we continue our discussion through the commission report so as not to cause any confusion. There are three motions in Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Law Proposal 688 be changed in the following way, under the current framework 22. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Recep Special Hilmi Scholar Ramadan Can "Seconds under the Code of Law 22-375; additional payment rates from members of the Court of Law (I) are not organised in groups related to the "Seconds under the Law of State Officers No. 657" section (d) under which "Seconds under the General Administration Service Class of the 1-Ceds and the Chief of State Secretary of State, the Chief of State of State, the secretary of State of State, and the secretary of the other districts under special administration, which is in the same order of the general administration, and the staff of the staff of the staff members of the Law of the Law and the staff of the Member States (I) are not organised in the same section (d). The legal adviser, deputy secretary general of the state's private administration of the cities without a city municipality, has been replaced as "the deputy secretary general of the first private administration," the same section (g) has been replaced by the text "Ill population and citizenship manager," which has been added to the statement before the release of the "Ill population and citizenship manager," and has been added to the following order, following the following order of the nineth term of the same ruler, "and the institution of higher education loans and dorms" and has been issued from the text, and has been placed in the same order after the "Substantial institution" and "Substantial loans for the same term." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the current 688 Orders of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş D. Ali Torlak Cemastin Simsek Özcan Yeniçeri The title "Investigator", dated 22 - 27/6/1989, added to the end of Article 375, added to the end of Article 11 of the Interim Article 11, added to the following joke, "Education, Minister of the Ministry of Maritime and Communications of the Ministry of the Ministry of State 657, under the Law of State Officials, and "K" in the "K" section of the Ministry of State and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of State of State and the Ministry of Intelligence, which is placed in the same department (II), has been replaced by the same agency's "g" and has been replaced by the "g" and the "regregregregional institution" and the "ection of the Ministry of the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State." "Special service compensation rates for the Press and Public Relations Advisor, with the same degree and an additional indicator in the class of general management services for those who serve as investigators in the Prime Minister's Central Agency, are paid in the same manner and on the same basis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Changes in Laws and Codes of Laws, 688 rows in question, 22nd. We propose that the clause be removed from the text of the Law. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Şeker of Rahmi Love Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0209par0300	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0205par0301	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0210par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0205par0303	Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0211par0306	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 22 of Law Proposal 688. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the figures I'm going to tell you are the statement of the ÜRK presidency: 5.5 million university students in Turkey. Approximately 810,000 students enter the first class of universities each year -- as of 2012. The same is the number of dorms in this country, which is now part of the Ministry of Sports: there are 2,241 dorms, 363, including the state. Around 305,000 people live in public dorms and 415 thousand in private housing. Where's the rest of the valuable MPs staying? The rest is on the street during your administration. So, in other words, one out of every 10 students who get into college can stay in a state dorm, and nine of them are left alone with their own destiny. Now, you've been in power for thirteen years, you haven't been able to solve this dorm problem, and I don't think you want to. You're taking away the student housing rights, not knowingly. Here's the thing: Where will students go when you don't solve their housing problem through the government? Either through lighthouses or foundations, through associations, they'll go to community dorms, cult dorms, private houses that you've started to criticize now, and you've deliberately allowed these students to channel here, ideological structures, even though you've been in power for thirteen years. Now all of a sudden, you're getting louder. Since when? After December 17th, December 25th, the turning point of your government, you suddenly began to change. What are you talking about? First you go into parallel paranoia over the classrooms, and now you try to evacuate dormitories by calling them community dorms. Two days ago, you closed down a private student home in Kelkit district of Silverhane, on the grounds that there was no yard arrangement during this trial period, by sending an inspector to serve for three years. Motive? Maybe, because they're going to support the parallel structure. I have a suggestion for you: take something for granted. If there are parallelists in this country, it's your work, so don't avoid it, but you have no right to wear everything out by coming out of parallel paranoia of police, civil servants, dorm students. Look, I want to make a point: Do you remember what the Prime Minister of the period, now, said to eliminate these community dorms after the classrooms at some point? I'll give you a place in the dorms of the state, he said. In fact, if you can't find a place in the state dorms, I'll give you a place in hotels. In some places, he said, are there boys and girls? Who said that? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan told me. Now I want to tell you in his presence, Mr. President, I want to tell your government. If there's room in the dorms, why can't you put the children of small-income families in their dorms? I'll give you an example or two about the nature of the situation. We're in the province of Bigeli. We have a total of 77,000 students at the University of Kopeeli and Gebze Technical University, a public home of 8,000 people, so there's one in ten. Friends, I'm giving you the latest official figures: 785 empty beds already, but every day students from Kopeli are looking for me, looking for my friends from the parliament, probably you too. We're on the bench, we're on the bench, we're not on the bench, they're not taking us. Now, my concern is that if you -- if I can find the time -- remember that I'll mention this in the next article -- you brought up a quota logic by posing the MPs as beggars at the gate of the General Directorate of the KYK, and then you removed this quota. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me remind you of another item. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0212par0316	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the current 688 Orders of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends The title, dated 22 - 27/6/1989, was added to the end of Article 375; the following joke was added at the end of Article 11 of the Interim Article 11 (I) supplemental Payments of the Court (I) Numbered Extra Payment Rates (L), the ministry's Department of State Officials No. 657, and the ministry's ministry's ministry's branch, and the ministry's department's branch, and the branch of the ministry's ministry's branch, were replaced by the same department and the branch of the ministry's office, and the branch of the ministry's administration's office, and the branch of the ministry's office, and the department's administration's administration's office, and the department's administration's administration's administration's office. ▪ Private service compensation rates for the Press and Public Relations Counsellor are paid in the same manner and on the same basis for those who serve as Investigators at the Prime Minister's Central Agency, with the same degree and the same additional indicator in the class of general administration services." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0213par0325	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0212par0326	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0214par0327	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0212par0328	Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0215par0331	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've made a commitment to the motion that we've made on perhaps the most innocent clause of Bag Number 688, with everything from health to sports, college to Red. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, the whole thing comes out of necessity. If there's no need, your actions are futile, absurd. Now, if someone's opening up a house somewhere, no one can doubt that you have an open house and an open home. If someone's opening up a classroom somewhere, that means you've got an education opening there. Thus, the main problem is not to solve the problem by closing the dorms or closing the classroom, but rather to close the roads to the classrooms and dorms, period. Dear lawmakers, I want to focus more on youth, which is the subject of the Loans and Homes Association than on matter, because we're here all the time, we're standing on the building, we're on the structure, we're on the management, we're not on the subject. I wonder if the evaluations that we've made... I mean, really open a school, open a dorm, make all kinds of structural arrangements that you can think of, but look at what you're contributing to at the point of understanding, understanding, intelligence, morality, commitment to the country. In a good building, you can raise people who are so vile and vile that you can destroy that building. The past is full of examples. In that respect, I'd like to talk a little bit about this youth. I'd like to open up some of the sociological, economic and cultural elements of youth in Turkey in your presence. I hope the Minister and the officials -- of course, the Minister of Sports -- but Mr. Minister of Sports isn't here -- will be able to assess and evaluate the matter within the framework of our analysis. We can gather Turkish youth in four groups sociologically. The first group is young people who live in rural areas, grow up in relatively isolated areas, whose traditional values are heavy. Family education is the dominant element in their personality. The second group can include young people who live in the city, who have more universality and access to and out of cosmopolitan environments, whose common denominator is temporary. In this group, school education is mainly a factor. And the third group, we can bring in the youth of lateral culture that goes between the village and the city, lives in slums, stays on the sidelines, doesn't belong anywhere. Experiences dominate the behavior of this group. Their schools are coffeehouses, their teachers are peer groups, and their playgrounds are streets. Young people in the fourth group are children of the top rich, society, top bureaucrats and artists. They live in the most modern neighborhoods in large cities or foreign cities. The income level is high, the resources are large, the rich or the local aristocratic. Their schools are foreign, their education is universal. They have a culture of wealth. This culture stands before us as a field of lateral culture. While the national culture fosters a sense of peasantry and traditional towns, poverty and wealth create deviations from national culture. Those who live in abundance, the new rich, break the old patterns of society that are a burden to them, create new values of integrity and morality, and engage in conflict with national cultural values. Structural and qualitative problems produced by urbanization and industrialization cause major damage to young people who are caught unprepared and unequipped. Studies among young people have found that concepts of values that are unique to the Muslim Turk, such as religious, patriotism, land commitment, courage, and courage, are considered old-fashioned, peasant signs. These values have been replaced by a series of morbid values, such as fame, wealth, materiality, and sexual freedom. All these developments produce generations that can't carry their history and beliefs. A generation that can't carry its history, who can't live up to its beliefs, is doomed to remain small followers of major cases. It's zero. We'll continue.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0216par0344	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0217par0345	Teacher, youth is proud of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0218par0346	Mr. President, Mr. Kaplan Silverhouse just said something about the closing of a dorm in Kelkit. I'd like to answer for the record.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0216par0347	I don't understand.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0218par0348	Mr. President, the end of the dorm is a one-month deadline. There's no fire system...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0216par0349	Please explain your position for a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0218par0352	Mr. President, Mr. Kaplan Silverhane has just said something about the illegal closure of a dorm in Kelkit district of Turkey. That's why I learned it. The house closes because there are no fire systems, there are no fire escapes, and it's dangerous.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0219par0353	Then why has it been open for three years, Mr. Feramuz?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0218par0354	The inspector's report gave him a month's notice. And when it wasn't done in a month, it was shut down in accordance with the inspector's report. Just for the record. I give you all respect.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0357	Mr. Kaplan, there's no garden landscaping...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0221par0358	Mr. President, I'm going to speak at 24, I'm going to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0359	Thank you. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current framework Article 22 of Law Proposal 688 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Cetvellin Cetvel No. 22-375 of the Court of Law (I) is a section of the "Seconds under the Code of State Officers No. 657" of the "Secrets under the Code of State Officers" of the "1-Cedro General Administration Services Class and the assistant Health Services and the special assistant member of the Department of Legal Services" (d) of the municipality, which is not organised in the group concerned with the additional payment rates of staff members of members of the staff members of the class and the "secretary of the municipality of the major cities, which are located in this department" (d). The legal adviser, deputy secretary general of the state's private administration of the cities without a city municipality, has been replaced as "the deputy secretary general of the first private administration," the same section (g) has been replaced by the text "Ill population and citizenship manager," which has been added to the statement before the release of the "Ill population and citizenship manager," and has been added to the following order, following the following order of the nineth term of the same ruler, "and the institution of higher education loans and dorms" and has been issued from the text, and has been placed in the same order after the "Substantial institution" and "Substantial loans for the same term." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0222par0370	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0371	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0223par0372	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0224par0373	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0374	I'm reading the reason: The Constitutional Court has decided that certain declarations taken in the Court of Law No. 375 (I) are to be re-organised by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that there is no jurisdiction under Law 666 under the Law No. 6/4/2011 and under the Law No. 623 and that there is no jurisdiction under the provisions of the special administration of the municipalities in the district of 6360, and that the financial rights of the province shall be re-organised due to the removal of its legal personality. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Özcan Yeniçeri Necati Özensoy Erkan Akçay Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu The last sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Sports General Directorate 3289, dated 23-21/5/1986, has been revoked and the final joke of Article 14 has been changed as follows. "In addition, the General Manager's Office sends the province's budgets as assistance, taking into account the populations of the provinces and investments in the provinces, a certain percentage of their incomes will be determined each year. The city budgets are organised according to these foundations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to the Law and Law Orders of 688 rows that are being held is 23rd. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Haydar Akar The last sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Sports General Directorate 3289, dated 23-21/5/1986, and the last sentence of Article 14 of Article 14 of Article 6 of the Law, has been lifted from effect. Does the commission participate in the latest motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0225par0396	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0397	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0226par0398	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0220par0399	Here you are, Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0227par0400	I salute you again. Now, Mr. Feramuz, let's share something together. If he's wrong and he's right, let's have a public opinion here. The dorm we're talking about is the Special Devran Boys' Home. How long has it been active? The Silver House has been operating in Kelkit district of Turkey for three years. If he's been licensed, if he's been operating for three years, if someone from the National Education Directorate has not done a license evaluation, then come out here, explain those official figures that have been in operation for three years, but I've said that it's not right for these students to be shut down and transferred in this period of exams, especially since your government is at the point of destruction of construction against communities in the dorms. If you've been waiting for three years, you can wait till the end of the semester. Well, if there's no fire escape, which you know it's not.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0228par0402	According to the inspector's report. If you don't want the inspector's report to go through with it, don't let it!
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0227par0403	Look, apart from that, let me remind you of something. Dear lawmakers, let's not fool each other. At least 100 students in every opening period of universities want a problem with dorms to be solved. The students either want it or the student's relatives want it. We're on the bench, can you help us with this government dorm? You're taking us, we're giving us three or five names at the gate of the Department of Loans and Homes, it's happening or it's not happening, you've removed it this year too. But I tried something this year. I tried it this year. This Department of Youth and Sports, which we didn't send, has solved the dorms of the people I sent through you. Then the concern is: Put some hands on your conscience. If you are acting on logic, I will respect you. If you want all neutral, objective lawmakers to benefit from this equal right, we don't need to go to the General Manager's door, we don't need to go to the General Manager's door, either give us the authority or none of you have the authority, but if you're given the privilege, that's injustice. I'd like to remind you of something for him. Look, there's another problem beyond this request for dorms, the conditions of the students staying in the dorm are far from ripening. Other than that, I'll tell you something else. And it happened in Samsun, and it happened in Iconium, and it happened in Izmir, and it happened in the book of Able. What right do students have to protest? They have the right to protest the PLO's practices. What are the students protesting? They're protesting the tuition. Students will speak out against the dynamics of society, certain practices that express the negativity of the society you take in society. The police are watching, wherever a college student is at a conference, talking at a conference, if he's protesting, taking him away with a camera, giving him to the dorm manager, and two days later they're throwing him out of the vulnerable dorm. I don't want to give you the name of the headmistress of the house, and I don't want to name the house, there are at least 11 students. His reason was that they protested the implementations of the PLO at the university, protesting the retake of tuitions at the university. Well, these students could also be your children. What right does he have to object? Look, you guys can't solve this dorm, and you don't intend to. Hopefully, in the Republican People's Party's rule -- Mr. President says something very clear -- in two years there will be no housing problems in Turkey. In two years, no student will have a dorm problem in Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0229par0406	One, one.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0227par0407	Maybe some of you will find it funny. Do you know how many houses you have now built in Turkey through the TOKI? If you do one-fourth of the way, the housing problem will be solved anyway. What happened to the hotel where you found the residents of the congregation? I wonder, what hotels did you put it in? You don't have to stand up for her when she means something.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0229par0409	You didn't do it either.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0227par0410	That's not the only thing the Justice and Development Party can't do; one of the important things that she can't do is a dorm problem. These kids are ours, there's no need to resuscitate them. They can use their democratic rights. We all have problems in school. These people are looking for you, too. How can we find a solution to these? As a congressman, I can't solve a student's dorm problem, and if I have to look for one of you, it's my shame, and your shame, and it's the shame of the House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think we need to figure this out as soon as possible. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0230par0416	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0231par0418	President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit06spe0230par0419	I'm going to look for the number of decisions, those who agree... those who refuse... there's not enough of them. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 23 of Law Proposal 688, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion of Ezekiel MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends. Now I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal of the law where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends The last sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Sports General Directorate 3289, dated 23-21/5/1986, has been revoked and the final joke of Article 14 has been changed as follows. "In addition, the General Manager's Office sends the province's budgets as assistance, taking into account the populations of the provinces and investments in the provinces, a certain percentage of their incomes will be determined each year. The city budgets are organised according to these foundations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0232par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0230par0014	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0233par0015	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0230par0016	Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0234par0019	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with this clause of the bag law, a few sentences of the previous law are being revoked. There's nothing more to be expected from a power that operates in a cove-lifting way, of course. This is also evidence of how serious, incoherent, and uncompromising the AKP has been about the adoption of the law. Anyway, that's not the point. Let's continue to tell you how to raise youth, which is the subject of the Department of Sports. However, I would like to share with you here something about structural problems. Now, there's a concept called change engineering. According to this concept, it means ignoring the existence of a system that had previously been established when a business was opened, when a building was built, or when a system was built, and organizing everything itself from scratch. So I want to constantly, like a patched bundle, to change that side of a system, to change that side of it, to make an addition, to remove it, but to create a problem in running the system, and to look at the matter, I want to stress in particular that it is necessary and necessary to look at it. Now, to be clear, the future of a society whose youth is not awake is also sick. In this context, it is their duty to protect all responsible for the subject more than necessary that youth should be warned against political and ideological rulers coming from within and from outside, preventing them from gaining bad habits and themes, against various suggestions and temptations. So in addition to the professional, scientific, moral, objective, and responsible discipline of youth, the nation, the country, the nation, the national culture, should be charged with education and a duty to preserve them. To be knowledgeable also means to be dominant. In the history of this nation's children, their culture, geopolitical and geostrategic position, they have to know, analyze, and internalise the threats and dangers that the country faces. In particular, the economic, social, and political policies of universal powers are beneficial for young people. A youth without knowledge is a candidate for the hunt for all kinds of dirty deeds. Young people have the freedom to make mistakes, but they have no freedom to make mistakes in art, culture, education, rules and customs, managers, scientists, artists, and educators. Young people need to be taught that they need to rise on their own feet, to get rid of the mistake of thinking they're someone else, to recognize their existence so that they can exist. Youth must surely have a scientific and rational understanding, a generation that is expected to be strong in both reason and faith. Dear lawmakers, there is no peace or peace in a society that is not spiritually strong. The active element of society is youth, and it must be strengthened spiritually. This task is not the work of just a particular group or group. It is a great task for such institutions, especially families, for the upbringing of future youth and for raising maturity to the level of people who are accepted in any way. Maslow has a theory called the hierarchy of Needs. The basis of the theory of hierarchy of needs is food, drinking, housing, etc. Through these needs comes other social needs, property needs, safety needs, et cetera. Thus, the foundation of physiological needs is closely related to the completion of a young child in the first degree of the need for dorms, as we have just called the Credit Homes Institution. To provide for your basic needs, your housing, and a positive need for it, will make it even more problematic. In this regard, it is everyone's duty to provide a comfortable home for the youth in this regard. The youth must be given ideals that it attributes to its use of shackles. It has to be known that the ideal makes the fool a hero, and the ideal makes the hero a fool. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0235par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 24: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Changes in Law and Law Orders, which are currently in session, 688 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan of Rahmi Love Article 10 of the Law on Higher Education Loans and Dorms No. 351, dated 24 ▪ 16/8/61, has been changed in the following way. The General Manager and the Vice Director are appointed jointly according to Law 2451, dated 23/4/1981. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 24 of the current Law Proposal 688 rows be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Özcan Yeniçeri Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0236par0047	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0235par0048	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0237par0049	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0235par0050	On the motion, Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0238par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, with this clause, you've entered into the behavior of putting another substance into another form, and you've changed the 10th article like this. It says: "The general manager and vice principals are appointed by joint decision according to the law on appointment procedure in the ministry and the institutional institutions." Okay, so far there's no problem. There's no problem with that, but there's a problem. It says: "When it is necessary for a minister to turn his authority over to the lower levels. " It is a complex, uncertain, arbitrary substance, which is a problem in itself. Look, if you notice, the minister will appoint other staffs besides the general manager and his assistants. When needed, the minister transfers his authority to the lower levels. The Minister's ability to appoint can be transferred to the lower levels. But there's no telling which lower level of authority the minister will turn over to. The minister will be able to hand over his mandate to any lower level, depending on his request for staff outside the general manager and his deputy. It wouldn't be such a flexible, arbitrary substance. The AKP's power has been working with the most ruthless, unfair, and dysfunctional system ever since, I'm afraid. So in the system of 4+4+4, you know that there's been an unsubstantiated massacre, a staff genocide. VIP appointments, the billing system, the partisanism are unfortunately consistent with the traditional form of governance of power. An appointment system like this is something people can do.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0239par0054	What do you mean, nakay?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0238par0055	I'll tell you now. This kind of system, first of all, is made by the kind of people that the ancients call "all right." This lack, of course, is not because of their humanity; it is because of their lack of understanding, perception, fairness and so on. This means that AKP has completely internalized a classical understanding. The AKP is trying to take the souls and consciences of those who will take office before starting the bureaucrats. If you offer two choices to those who will be appointed to the government, such as bread or virtue or honor, if one offers troubled choices from the other, morality will migrate from there. More clearly, this sentence is either the AKP, or the AKP, or the honor.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0240par0058	Teacher, I swear it's not happening.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0238par0059	A ruler will either bow to the AKP, then lose his virtue, and only then will he come to a government that will have bread. It describes a complete human, moral, and spiritual collapse. The AKP has a tradition of bringing people to the administration who can stop their mental activity for their stomachs. The AKP government recommends to state officials to leave their souls in the cloakroom before entering the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is concrete evidence of this situation. Aside from the position of the Undersecretary of MIT, the recent appointment of President Erdogan as chancellor is also evidence of these statements.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0241par0061	Is this your first time?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0238par0062	The Ark is an honor. Erdoğan, our President, who used the word, did not take into account the votes of academics in the presidential election at universities. Prof. Sedat Laciner, who won the election at Çanakkale University with the highest votes, was appointed as the chancellor, who received fewer votes than Professor Ekrem Atalan, who came out of the chest 1st at the University of Mush Alparslan. President Erdogan's proximity to the AKP was a key criteria for the appointment of the chancellor. As has been done before, I would like to point out that the chancellor's appointments are entirely in accordance with the law, the legislation and the regulations in effect, but that he has a condition that will disturb his public conscience.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0242par0063	Are you saying that, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0238par0064	There are no objections. Even corruption is a caution that Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who says he thinks about everything, does not act in accordance with the conclusion of the box in the presidential postings. As long as it replaces integrity and driver's licenses in appointment and promotions, we make more laws or we change laws that have been passed. Turkey needs discreet and faithful rulers to give the trust to its owners. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0243par0067	Teacher, we're not clapping now.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0244par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0245par0069	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit07spe0244par0070	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0244par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri and his friends' motion on the 24th article of Law Proposal 688 was not enough. Now, I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal of the law where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Changes in Law and Law Orders, which are currently in session, 688 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends Article 10 of the Law on Higher Education Loans and Dorms No. 351, dated 24 ▪ 16/8/61, has been changed in the following way. The General Manager and the Vice Director are appointed jointly according to Law 2451, dated 23/4/1981. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0246par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0244par0016	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0247par0017	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0244par0018	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0248par0019	Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0244par0020	Haydar Akar is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0249par0022	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first, I congratulate the 112th anniversary of the Besiktaş Sports Club. I hope they'll give Turkey a great deal of happiness at the age of 112 and finish the next round of the second half and we'll all have that joy together. As a Galatasarayian, I support them from the heart, from the heart, that's how I want to be known. Thank you, guys. According to Article 58 of the Constitution, it is a duty to protect young people from alcohol, drugs, gambling, and other bad habits, and we must do so for our young ones. Who's gonna do it? Of course, we will make legislation, conduct, and together we will make sure that our young ones grow up to be useful people for the country. It's based on sports clubs in the infrastructure. In fact, in these articles today, the removal of regional directorates in the Ministry of Sports, the establishment of county managers, all the things that need to be done along with the fact that it's the right and late steps. I find it true that more services are being taken to the ground, delivered faster. This falls to the Ministry of Youth and Sports when we just count what needs to be done about young people. Since the mission fell to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, what should be done in Turkey? The number of athletes needs to be increased, the number of amateur sports clubs needs to be increased. When we look at the proportions, when we look at the data in Turkey, we see that this is not the case. Turkey has about 12,411 amateur sports clubs. This is all based on data from the Sports Directorate's 2014 data, and we have about 2.5 million amateur athletes. We're trying to raise these athletes with 150,000 coaches. When you look, a club falls to 6,340 athletes in Turkey. That's a really big number, and it's a very difficult situation for young people to get service. For this reason... for example, in France, 333 people receive an amateur sports club, a sports club for 417 people in the Netherlands. That means we're too short. This is also what we see in the days of the AKP governments. But there's a study that we've done together with former Wrestling Federation President Osman Bey. Because even though the amateur sports clubs in Turkey are scarce, they are in great distress. They are especially troubled at the point of repayment of resource problems and debts from the past. Our Minister of Social Security is also here, our Minister of Labour and Social Security -- one of the biggest debts is the premium debt to this Ministry unit, the income tax debts again. It's really impossible for our amateur sports clubs to get rid of this burden, with no resources, no income, completely by the initiatives of people, by listening to the voices of their conscience, by the help of our amateur sports clubs who live on donations. So we did a study on it, and we met with the Finance Minister and the Minister of Youth and Sports. I know this study has come to an end, and today's work will be completed tomorrow. I hope from now on -- by putting the next bag in the law on Monday, maybe with an additional clause, maybe inside the law to discuss with the Plan and Budget Commission -- we'll get our amateur sports clubs out of those debts, we'll clear them of those debts. Because even if we wait a hundred years, if we wait three hundred years, they won't be able to pay. Not only do they have bonus debts, but they also have a mortgage on our amateur sports clubs, which is an important debt. All of this -- I mean, I'm talking about what you owe the government -- it's a big deal. For example, the Bigelispor. Our sports club, which once stormed the Super League, won the Turkish Cup twice, represented Turkey in Europe, today has to play in the regional amateur league. Why? Because he couldn't transfer because of his past debts, because he couldn't re-reorganize. This number falls to 30 million after the configuration, and if we manage their interest, the numbers are much larger -- it's an incredible burden of debt. If we don't figure this out, our young people won't have a chance to play sports, our amateur sports clubs won't have a chance to hold on. We have to increase our number of clubs. And I don't think it's enough that we just did it last year, and we've been able to transfer funds from municipalities. A little bit more, maybe in the next period, in the 25th term, we'll see this again, and we'll find permanent resources for our amateur sports clubs, and I'd like to say good evening to all of you, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0250par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to Law and Law Orders of 688 rows in question is 25th. We offer and offer to remove the article from the text of the law, which is included in the 2nd joke of the article. Refik Eryılmaz Mehmet Şeker Ali Serindağ Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Rahmi Love Türeli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 25th article of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Necati Özensoy Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0251par0045	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0250par0046	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0252par0047	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0250par0048	Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0253par0050	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, of course, would be incomplete if I didn't say this, and I want to express this in particular: Now, today, there was a discussion that had just been held, and in this discussion, there was a grave explanation that the Crusades caused cultural change and cultural interaction. However, about the Crusades, the Pope apologized to the Islamic world for these Crusades. In this case, the spirits of the Salahattin Eyüyü and Kılıçarslan were hurt and offended. I strongly suggest that those who say so should review their situation in particular. There were poets who once said that the Greek army that occupied Anadolu -- in fact, would bring civilization and democracy to Anatolia. There were a lot of bald and felli poets. There were some explanations that capitalization also stimulates economic direction and commercial life, and these statements, I'm saying out loud, are the explanations of the heads. After that, I'd like to share with you my opinion on the agenda and Article 25 of the proposal. Now, the sentence in the first joke of Article 351 of this Law is as follows: According to a programme that will be prepared by the institution for construction, equipment, maintenance and repairs of the countries, the Department of Publicity and the Ministry of Environment shall be the first to carry out the construction, maintenance and repairs of the dorms, as it can be understood by this decree. It would be against the law to not carry out the ministry's duties in the first place, while the statement in the joke decree points to the importance of the housing work. It is remarkable that the ministry has given the Agency for Higher Education Loans and Homes the authority to conduct construction, construction, construction, equipment, maintenance and maintenance while carrying out the home-building, repair and maintenance work as a priority. This arrangement points to new corruption and bribery fields. In particular, the construction industry, which is one of the most important parts of the corruption files of the AKP, which is included in the added joke decree, can be seen as a new area opening or effort in the construction sector. The article in the February 7, 2015 newspaper actually gives us some clues. The report points out that the Centre for Loans has signed protocols with dozens of fellow businessmen to build a guaranteed home for fifteen years, and the protocols show high housing capacity to pay high rent and increase fees from the student. In spite of the open law, the laws signed by the Credit House are against the law, despite the clear law on the absence of an open law and the fact that housing construction can already be carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The proposed arrangement, in fact, was possible to correct it with a motion in the Commission talks to address this violation of the law, which was not corrected. The AKP has, unfortunately, kept the clause as it was during the Commission talks to prevent enough public discussion of the arrangement, thus creating a type of cover that steals the minaret. Now, therefore, it is time for the AKP, which has become a complete force of creation, to abandon the policy of opening a plus-rand vehicle and some sort of corruption area from almost everything. The fact that investments in a field related to youth and youth are subject to such a purpose, that is, in a serious way, even worse, brings it to a critical position and position. Dear lawmakers, I specifically wanted to draw both the education system and the upbringing of youth to a specific point in Turkey, with talks that we've just made on about three proposals. In Turkey, education breeds foreigners. I think there are numerous benefits to everyone's review of the situation in that direction. Young people -- insecure -- grow up in frustration, frustration, and despair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The graduates of their schools are particularly depressed by the lack of jobs, resulting in a number of advanced walks, meetings, civil and social movements. With all this in mind, you need to adjust your steps. I give you all this opportunity to pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0254par0059	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to Law and Law Orders of 688 rows in question is 25th. We offer and offer to remove the article from the text of the law, which is included in the 2nd joke of the article. Refik Eryılmaz (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0255par0066	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0254par0067	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0256par0068	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0254par0069	Who will speak, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0257par0070	Refik Eryılmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0254par0071	Mr. Refik Eryılmaz, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0258par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers are also required to be ruled by construction, sanctions, equipment, maintenance and maintenance of buildings owned by Higher Education Credit and Dorms, under the provision of Article 351 under which the Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution shall be added to Article 20 (U.S.) titled "Construction and Reconstruction." Now, it's clear that what is envisioned by this proposal is not to solve the problems of dorms, the problems of our college students, the housing problem. With this joke, which is intended to be added by the 20th article, we see that some businessmen close to AKP are actually being given new rates. We see that he is trying to open a new area of construction capital in the construction sector, which is one of the most important parts of AKP corruption files, with the aim of getting this production from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to transfer it to the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes. Dear lawmakers, we see that what is being targeted by this law proposal is that our students in college have been suffering for years and have not been able to solve the problem of the dorm that cannot be solved, but aims to provide a new runt to some businessmen close to the ruling party. The AKP has also resorted to the method of adding a clause during the Commission talks to prevent a public debate on the arrangement. Thus, as we prepare the case that steals the minaret, a new bag of law offers room for a new corruption and a new runt. Speaking of dorms, we're not going to pass without saying that we see a lot of college kids who are studying abroad today face both dorm problems, housing problems, and tuition problems abroad. We see today that Turkey invites thousands of students from different countries to Turkey, that it allows them to study at universities in Turkey, that they have all kinds of housing problems, and that they are also afforded by the state. However, we see that our young Turkish citizens who travel from Turkey to other countries are struggling with this problem of housing abroad, with these high rates. Now, even though we say that the essential thing to do here is the requirement of reciprocity, although we have offered to make a law on the matter, unfortunately, there is not a single regulation on it. As for the housing issue, I can't help but say: Unfortunately, the government allows Syrian youths from abroad, especially from Syria, to study at the university they want based solely on the declaration. The 10th article of the Constitution states that all our citizens are equal before the law. So today, the butcher, the son of our tradesman citizen, is allowed to enter any university he wants without having to go to school and prepare for university exams with the money he has collected from his teeth to prepare for college. All housing problems are covered by the government, and all tuition costs are covered by the government. Now, our normal, ordinary citizen asks: Why are you making this distinction? If you're really giving this opportunity to these outsiders, it's necessary for our own citizens to be given the opportunity. Although we, on the other hand, have brought it up here, unfortunately, this problem has not been resolved. I demand that these practices, which clearly violate the 10th Article of the Constitution, be abandoned immediately, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0259par0081	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 26 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 26 of Law Proposal 688 be changed in the following form. Erkan Akçay Seyfettin Yilmaz Necati Özensoy Ali Halaman Alim İkm Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu The second joke of Article No. 2942, dated 26-4/11/1983, was taken out of the article. Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 688 Orders Numbered Law Proposal is 26. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Erol Dora Iron Steel Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Izzet of Love Selects the Hard Vacam Müslim Sarı Bihlun Tamaygil Haydar Akar Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0260par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0259par0110	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0261par0111	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0259par0112	Ali Reza Ozturk will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0262par0114	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers can be made into tunnels after the declaration of similar rail transport systems, in the 4th article of the Law on Publicisation and the 26th Article of the bill." It's called. So, what does it mean? This, my dear friends: A certain section of non-moving property, if it is sufficient for the purpose instead of the adoption of unmovable property, can be established by means of public domain, height, depth or resource adoption. In 2014, an exception of this was issued: (see also:) However, there was an expression of the use of property rights to their property and property, with the protection of life and property, that there were all kinds of bridges, subways, and other rails, above the transport lines of transportation, and so on the basis of public interest. Now, there's a tunnel here next to those rail transport systems. No publicisation of the property rights of their move cannot be made if the property rights of their move is not blocked. The owners of the move will not be paid any fee under the name of publicisation, compensation and so on. Now, good lawmakers, this is the case that no fee will be paid to the unmovable owners under the scope of publicisation, compensation and so on. The decision has been taken to the Constitutional Court by the Republican People's Party. In fact, that arrangement was made in 2014. Now, I'd like to say here, the distortion of law enforcement: you're making an arrangement in the Legislative Law 2942, which should be discussed by the Justice Commission, and it goes to the Plan and Budget Commission, which has already happened in 2014. Now, there's a limitation of property rights here. Civil Law 718 actually determines the scope of property rights. The scope of this property right is not only the area it covers, but also the area it covers vertically and horizontally, both above and below, which is within the scope of property rights. This right of property is defined in Article 35 of the Constitution, and is one of the basic rights. The 35th Article of the Constitution is clearly entitled to property and inheritance. These rights can only be limited by the law for the sake of public interest. The use of property rights can't be contrary to the benefit of the community. Again, due to the basic rights and freedoms, the right to property can only be restricted by the law and not by the common rights and freedoms of the Constitution. The reasons stated in the relevant articles of the Constitution. Again, the 46th article here is about nationalization. Dear lawmakers, what's essential is that when we call it the right to property, it's not the right to dry property. It is the use of this, and the owner of this property is able to use all the resources that this property gives him, and it must not be prevented. You're going to tunnel under his house, my dear, and you're not going to pay any fee for it because of the safety of life and property. I mean, that's blocking the guy's vertical, downwards, to the supply, vertical property. Or you're gonna put a cable car over it, and you're not gonna pay the publicization price again. Come on, let's say there's been a development change in the future, it's been given a higher level of clearance than the cable car, so what's going to happen? Therefore, this sentence is first of all contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, 35, 13 and 46, which is why the amendment to Article 6552 in 2014 in Article 99 of Law was taken to the Constitutional Court for violating these relevant Articles of the Constitution, standing before the Constitutional Court. It is not right to bring it here by adding to its statement, even though it has not yet been decided. Therefore, we demand that this be removed from the material text. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0263par0123	Thank you. The right to ownership is the basis of the Constitution, and the savings on private property are the basis of the existing capitalist system. As part of the matter and urban transformation, taking homes, neighborhoods, and habitats is also trying to take away the underground portion of citizens' property. This situation is not democratic. An authoritarian understanding is a reflection of the logic of "everything and every moment" of the logic of austerity, the fact that such a clause is still present in various cases in the Constitutional Court and such a clause is still in violation of the principle of independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers. Therefore, matter must be removed from the text. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 26 of Law Proposal 688 be changed in the following manner. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The second joke of Article No. 2942, dated 26-4/11/1983, was taken out of the article. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0264par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0263par0135	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0265par0136	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0263par0137	Mr. Scholar Light will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0266par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 26 of Law Proposal 688. I hereby salute you all again at this hour of the night. The 26th article of the proposal envisions a change in Article 4 of the Law on Publicisation 2942. This is the fourth article, a clause titled "the establishment of the right of rights" of this law, which was already issued six months ago, again on September 10, 2014, by listening to our proposals, which sparked very serious debates in this Grand Assembly, which are not appropriate with the allegations of violation of the Constitution. Now, six months later, it's being brought in again. The 99th article of Bill 6552 was introduced with the following amendment: First, if the property of non-movable property is sufficient for the purpose rather than to be nationalized, the specific portion of the non-moving property can be established through height, depth, or resource dissolution. It has been added to this, as Mr. Ozturk put it a moment ago, however, any bridges, subways, and similar rail transport systems can be built under them, on the basis of public injuries, provided the right to property is not blocked, and the measures necessary for life and property safety are taken. In case the use of property rights of the movers is not blocked, there will be no formalisation of the property, and no fee will be paid under publicisation, compensation and so on for these transactions. Because of the investment, the value increase in property is not accepted from them. The notice has been added. Thus, under the citizen's house, it was decreed that gold could be used without having to be nationalized and paid for investments such as rail transport systems, subways, and so on. Now, this is being brought up in addition to the rail transport systems. Thus, this provision, intended by the AKP governments in Istanbul, especially on the basis of the runt, is indeed contrary to the relevant provisions of the Constitution. Therefore, our motion also aims to eliminate the old sentence, dated September 10, 2014 and issued under Law 6552, and to prevent many victims from being added -- this new statement cannot be added -- due to this new statement. As Mr. Ozturk has just stated, the previous arrangement is now in the Constitutional Court on grounds of violation of the Constitution. Before it's finalized, it's as if the Constitutional Court has made its decision without knowing what its outcome will be, and the arrangement that has led to the victimhood of the citizen here has passed, as if it's been passed, a certain law, and you're making changes to it. Therefore, I would like to say that it is not right to spend these arrangements in a way that no one understands at this late hour, which will lead to the lawmaking technique and especially to the victimhood of the citizen, that our motion is being prepared for this purpose. Just because our earlier warnings were ignored does not mean that our warning will not be heeded. Because the Supreme Court hasn't decided yet. Let's say ten days later he cancels the previous arrangement. You're already making changes in this canceled arrangement, so it'll be cancelled. At least let's not make ourselves laugh. Let our citizen understand that the Supreme Assembly, which has passed this law, is working more seriously. Otherwise they'll laugh at him, and they'll laugh at him. I wish to accept our motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit08spe0267par0146	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0267par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 688. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on Article 27. The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 27 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Scholar Light Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu The signatures of the other motion are: Aytun Çiray İhsan Özkes of Rahmi Love Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Sinan Aydın Aygün Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 27 of the current 688 Orders Numbered Law Proposal. We demand and demand that its clause be removed from the text of the law due to violation of the Constitution. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy İstiye One Iron Steel Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0268par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0267par0031	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0269par0032	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0267par0033	I'm reading the reason: The 27th edition of the Law text. The clause is contrary to the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Law texts. With this clause, administrative institutions for Internet access and surveillance are given a great deal of authority, with an understanding that wants to create an authoritarian surveillance and control society. The Internet, which is the most effective mode of communication, sharing information and social activity today, is intended to be clamped in the AKP's power. The AKP's government, which has a record in both national and international arenas, is trying to block the country's freedoms in order to protect itself with the law clause in question. December 17th and 25th operations, such as the Travel Resistance, have been recklessly suspending constitutional rights and restricting communication, while the AKP's government has signed an illegal and illegal application in the legal terminology, such as enforcing the amendment and the constitutional violation. Although the Supreme Court's relevant decisions and the provisions of the ECHR are clear on this issue, this clause cannot be legalized, which would be illegal if it was legalized. Because with universal law norms, as well as technology progressing day by day, all prohibitions can be overcome. In view of these realities, the AKP's rule of law must also be removed, which violates all legal texts in question. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading two other motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 27 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The signatures of the other motion are: The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0270par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0267par0045	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0271par0046	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0267par0047	Dear scholar Light, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0272par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again at this time of night, I bid you all good night. I have taken a pledge on the motion we made to remove the 27th article of the proposed Law Proposal, 688 rows. On this occasion, I salute you once again. This clause aims to release the content of the online broadcast and/or block access by the presidency at the request of the ministries, regardless of the judicial decision of this authority. Because if the matter passes like this, we'll see that a clause that has been passed through this great Parliament, where the law has been broken, the laws of international and universal law have been broken, and the Constitution has been violated. Therefore, first of all, it is important that this be removed not only in respect of the law but also in the international arena as well as in the fact that our country's reputation has not been discredited. Now, this isn't the first time this proposal has come to this great House. One of the reasons why it is persistent is that the ruling party, in order to avoid any accidents ahead of the upcoming elections, again, will shut down broadcasts that could be against the Internet in an instant. In particular, documents related to corruption and bribery are intended to block its circulation on the Internet. It's against the law for the head of the Telecommunications Communications Agency to take this authority. Without a judge's decision, it is not right to access any website and ban publication on that site. In particular, we feel that such an arrangement is not right because of the explanation of the thought and the limitation of freedom. I hope he doesn't insist on this mistake. In the event it is, it will return from the Constitutional Court again, and unfortunately, that will pass as a negative to the parliamentary quality of legislation. Earlier, persistently, this arrangement envisions that such regulations are not true, that only access to the opposition to the Justice and Development Party would be blocked, that corruption documents were brought in after corruption, bribery operations would be removed from the Internet system, which would be cancelled again, and then, again, brought back to the agenda of the Grand Assembly, before the election, and again, if such events were to be met, would be immediately band on such publications. It's not for the good of anyone, it's not for the good of the country. In particular, it is a harmful arrangement that will lead to the violation of the rule of law. Therefore, our motion aims to remove the item from the proposal text. Again, I give you all my regards, and I expect your support in our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0273par0056	Thank you. On the other motion, Mr. Erdal Aksinger will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0274par0059	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, the 27th article, of course, when you look at it from a place that has three tides. Friends have also expressed, and we have said many times that this is contrary to the Constitutional Court, which is already contrary to the Constitutional Court. The reasons that are being brought in right now are in fact those reasons, they've all been aggravated. Now, the Constitution says it is contrary to the 2nd amendment of the Constitution, contrary to the institutional philosophy of the Republic of Turkey, the Constitutional Court said it was a violation of the same resolution, because of Article 13, it still called out the 22nd article, because of the obstruction of freedom of communication and blocked the 26th article, the freedom of expression and distribution of thought. So, has the matter been resolved? He didn't get up. Before the Constitutional Court actually made that decision, there was already a world of rights violations of the European Court of Human Rights on 5651 in 2013. Now, as one of the things that you've brought up here, for example, you're going to apply to a criminal law to do it, let's just say, well, that was already in the Turkish Penal Code. Your own MP, Mr. Babushcu, said something, "I apologize for that." But then he would have been subject to that law. Why? On the other side, there's TCK. The reason for this initiative is that it's normally an act to destroy the Republic, but maybe someone else wanted to do it, and you did it, and you're saying it here. Now, what are you gonna do about it if I complain when you get here? Isn't that right? It's actually a matter of publicity. If the Republic says we're going to tear it down, we're going to build another order. Doesn't it mean that? He's done it here, but it's already in the Turkish Penal Code and in the Constitution, there's a punishment, there's no law needed here again. The reason for this is that -- and so did the friends -- is actually to spend this election era de-threatening threats. I'll tell you why: last year when you brought this in, in the eighth month, in the ninth month, after this came through here, it became law and we took it to the Supreme Court. I know all the ingredients by heart, I took them all. The Constitutional Court cancelled it on the 2nd of the 10th month. You know what you did? You didn't publish it in the Official Gazette for three months, but by the way, they were all enforced, as if there was such a law. This can't be happening again on January 1, 2015, when the issue was published in this official newspaper, you brought it back from the Plan and Budget Commission just six or seven days later. You've even changed it again, you've changed it too, when you look at it from one side. This cannot be offered, that's where we say it's contrary to the Constitution, which is unprovoked. And I'll tell you this: from one point of view, Turkey was sentenced to 224 in Europe when you looked at the European Court of Human Rights for violations of freedom of expression as of 2013. The other nine countries add up to 197. There's Russia in these nine countries, there's Poland, there's Romania. All in all, 197, Turkey alone has been punished for 224 violations of rights and violations of freedom of expression. The European Court of Human Rights had already imposed the same sentence on us in 51. You guys are always really embarrassing this country in both Europe and the world. In the middle, the data is there, and I'm not saying it's all there. Why are they taking off? In a little while, you've made another motion, actually, and I'll tell you about it in the next article. There was a union called the Access Providers Association, and now it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. In this law, even if you actually do it, you won't be able to do it. Do you know why those access providers made the Union? They did it to look cute to the West. Well, we're not doing it, there's a democratic mass organization, they're doing it. Actually, he's right, and so is the president of TİB. In fact, there aren't that many Internet access providers that normally, he's telling the truth, and I'm not saying anything about that. So far, they've been nice, they've been good, and they've been bad today? That's why... that's what I figured you'd bring back in a little while, which is what we're going to tell you right there. In addition, we've just had a report published in America, and perhaps we'll have time to talk about it soon, and I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0275par0066	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission participates in the motion with only 21 members, I'm going to open it up as a new clause on the motion. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following clause to be added after Article 27 of the current Law Proposal 688. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Recep Special Ismail Kashdemir Ramazan Can In the second joke of Article 28-5651 of the Law, the term "existent Internet service providers" has been changed into "existent Internet service providers with a subscriber as of the date of the application of this article." Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0276par0079	Yes, Mr. President, there are only so many of us, that our commission is in the majority of the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0275par0080	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0277par0081	Mr. President, on behalf of our group, Erdal Aksinger...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0275par0082	Mr. Erdal Aksinger will speak on the new article on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0278par0083	Now, I've just made a statement about the Access Providers Association. In fact, there really aren't that many accessors in Turkey. Normally, there's only one access provider, one person, who's actually the judge. Turk TELEKOM owns all the infrastructure in Turkey. We've told you this 50 times. Turkey has more than 90 per cent of all internet infrastructure and communication infrastructure. That's right, most of the others work as subcontractors, but why do you still keep it as Turkish? We've said it 50 times, and they still insist on not having it changed. A company called TELEKOM (TÜRK) is no longer Turk's, but someone else's, Arab's, his, his. I mean, your infrastructure's all there. Now, most of the remaining access providers receive subcontractorial services from Turkey's TELEKOM. Well, except for a few GSM operators, they're all connected there anyway. But here's the thing: I think you're trying to get this stuff in, by putting it in. Why are you doing this to me? There is no more unity called the Union of Entrance Providers. Why not? At the beginning of this month, the Court cancelled its charter. Why did he cancel? We also explained this from this box, and he cancelled it: You wrote a charter with 12 judges, who were the head of Turkish TELEKOM, when you formed the Union of Access Providers together with BTK. You took this charter, you approved it with the BTK, and I'm not going to call it the government-hand state anymore, because you think you're a state -- you passed this charter -- and then the rest -- and then it went up to 116 -- and they put together these accessors, and they made a charter, and they took this charter, and they gave it to BTK, but you did it the way that 12 people said you did it. TELKODER took it, went to the court, objected. What happened when you went to the judge and objected? It's been a long time, but on the 9th month of this month, the State Department cancelled its charter, so there is no more Union of Access Providers. What are you trying to do when you're doing this? If we take 40 or 50 people out of the game, if we drop 100 people, if we get the majority of them, if we make a new charter out of here, then you'll say, in response to what I've just said to Europe, or the criticism of developed countries, we're not telling them to shut them down. You'll say, "Who's telling you?" You'll say, "The Access Providers Union is here." That's not possible, you can't do that. Even if this law is legal right now, we'll take it to the Constitutional Court anyway, not a chance. If this Constitutional Court is not rescinding it from the same articles, it will have nothing to do with the law, I do not know the side of it. You know what I mean? Because the same reasons apply. Now, if that's the law, you can't enforce it. Why can't you apply it? There's no such unit as the Access Providers Association you're talking about anymore, you won't be able to implement it, there's no such unit. So you need to rebuild such a unity. Here's the bottom line on this new substance: you're looking at how many of these players we can push out of this game, we can throw the crown, you're looking at it in a hurry. But I'm telling you, it's definitely a law that's gonna make people vomit blood. We've already seen the world's view of Turkey in the recent report that the day before came, not just yesterday, the reports published by NGOs in the United States claim that Turkey has actually gone mad about it. I'm telling you again, with the Turkish penal code responding to that, I think the basis for bringing such a law is simply to prevent what happens to you in the future, which is nothing more than that, which means nothing else. I'll tell you again, as the Republican People's Party, we'll take this to the Constitutional Court. I'm saying you can't actually make it legal, you can't enforce it, and I'm saying it's against the Constitution. Given that we've taken it before, and the Constitutional Court has done the same thing, and it's been aggravated, we'll take it to the Constitutional Court. I'll tell you something else. Earlier, the president of the TİB was given authority, and is now given to the Minister and the Prime Minister. Now there's no Access Providers Association. How would this Minister and the Prime Minister get millions of applications out of here? How would someone get them out of here? Yeah, how's he gonna do that? From up there, he can pick out anyone who's going to kill you, who's going to bring trouble to your political estate. How's he gonna get the rest? Now, I'm a guy who has 50,000, over 100,000 followers, and I'm a guy who writes weird things every day. There are abusers, there are insults, yes, but to a certain extent, but believe me, I don't have a legal problem with any of them. Why not? You can't handle a thing like that. I'm blocking it, so I'm passing. What am I supposed to do, deal with all this? That can't happen. But when I want to deal with it, it has a place in the law, in order. It's already known to Turk TEKOM or TİB what it is. If I'm gonna do something like that, I'm gonna sue them all. I'm not picking up, I'm not going to anything like this, I'm blocking it, I'm passing it. What am I supposed to do with him? But there's something else going on. Look, I agree with everyone about what's going on with people's private lives -- I don't have any doubts. It's about private life, it's more about slander than it is about insult; we have no doubts about it. Now, when you say the Internet, we're not just talking about social media. It's called child porn, terrorism. Yeah, you didn't put them in there. They don't exist. He's already in the law, but he's not here, so don't let them manipulate him. Children's porn is forbidden all over the world, not all over the world. There's no man here who doesn't agree. If there is, it's low, that's all it is. What else can you say? Yeah, well, don't make excuses, I mean, it's not about that, it's not about that, it's not about that. So, as soon as we get this job... of course, I mean, even if we take it back to the Constitutional Court... we'll take it, I think it'll cancel. If he can't, he's not called the Supreme Court. And ye shall keep it for three months, and ye shall not publish it in the Official Gazette, and the election shall pass, and it shall come into effect. So, what's it gonna be? The train, the horse, whatever, will have gone wherever the field is going. That's where the problem is. I said five minutes, it's been seven and a half minutes, but let me tell you, we'll take all of this to the Supreme Court. But here's the thing: people about right violations... look, about this Access Providers Association, friend, let me tell you, you're bringing a penalty between $50,000 and $500,000 to the men, and if the man doesn't pay, you're saying, "If he doesn't pay, we'll go to prison and we'll turn this into money. No stranger is going to invest in Turkey, he's not going to invest in Turkey, he's not going to invest in Turkey. If you want, let's call them all, and we'll talk about it. Nobody does. Aside from this social media issue, the Internet will stop on one occasion without the future, the economy's backbone, the stock market. It's the Internet backbone everywhere, but it's like this axe you're going to put on the Internet in the new information economy, the guy doesn't want to come here, he really doesn't want to. We have a lot of documents on this. Maybe we can explain them if there's a chance in the future. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0279par0093	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I submit to your votes the motion for the new substance requirement: Those who don't agree... Sustained. So a new clause is added to the proposal. We will now continue negotiations over the number of existing substances to avoid any confusion. There are two motions in Article 28 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 28 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ahmet Kenan Godkulu Necati Özensoy The signatures of the other motion are: Aytun Çiray İhsan Özkes of Rahmi Love Sinan Aydın Aygün Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0280par0114	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0281par0115	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0279par0116	I'm reading the reason: In addition to Article 28 of the proposed 688 rows of the proposed law, Article 18 of the Proposal, Article 5809 and Article 5 of the Fifth Amendment of Electronic Telecommunications was added to the duties and powers of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications to determine and carry out policies and strategies for the National Public Integration Data Centre. The decision to establish the National Public Integration Data Centre was made at the 25th meeting of the Information and Technology High Council in January 2013. The meeting also drew attention to the creation of a legal, technical, administrative model for the integration of public institutions' data centers. Thus, all public data is planned to be collected on a common and secure platform. Another thing that should be noted at this stage is that the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is a pioneer in the establishment of the national public integrated data centre. After December 17th-25, the allegations that TÜBITAK had had in common with a technology that did not exist on the Internet and that there was good intentions in this business with a minister of science and technology who tried to explain emotion and science. The data centre for this mentality will be a cover-up of chips and corruption, irregularities and bribery. The National Public Integrated Data System will again be brought to life by the implementation of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications is involved in a mission that has made it a mission to suppress public freedom of information by covering corruption and bribery. Instead of managing the Ministry's National Public Integrated Data System in accordance with its theoretical framework, it will be able to use it as a branding and printing tool. In order to prevent such practices, the item must be removed from the proposal text. On the other motion, Mr. Erdal Aksinger will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0282par0126	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, the next item is actually at the safety point of personal data, and Mr. Reza will surely tell you something very interesting about it, but I'll tell you something very interesting. Now, let's just say that we want to deliver our personal data to the government, which should be government security. Of course, we've never seen the government provide such assurances, but I'll tell you something about Congress. Guys, you all have a smartphone today, an iPad, an iPad, an iPad, this. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Gov. You must have been using e-mails from the If you take this email and you want to use it on your mobile phone or on your smartphone or if you want to use it on your iPad, I'm telling you that if you want to update these e-mails, I'm telling you: right now, if you want to get connected to the TBMM's servers -- it can also be your own consultants -- if you want to see these e-mails, you're going to have to put them on his iPad. Look at what you allow, so you allow the phone or what you have on the iPad, to delete all data. You can connect to your phone or iPad without knowing it -- or whatever the mobile device there is -- and all the data can be deleted. You give it to them. You're authorizing all the data, giving them the power to change the code rules, turn on the cameras and turn them off. It's real, and none of you may know it, so it's real. I don't know if you're saying trust is something else. I'm saying there's no choice here, but I mean no. Don't look at these, brother. There's something else, you let the screen locks go or you let them go. They can do it, they can do it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, You're also giving them to me. The storage area, for example, happened to my advisor, and when he showed it to me, he looked at it. I didn't allow it, he can't access all the old phone addresses on my phone right now, and he can't access them because I won't let him, because if I say yes, he gets them on the phone. They've taken those phones before, they've backed them up, they've backed up their phone numbers. It says here to turn the cameras on and off. What do you mean, why are you turning it on and off? This is a place where I have my personal data, and I don't allow anyone to do it, so I'll take precautions. If there's something about it, someone says, "What if I'm doing it for your own good?" Why are you doing it for my own good? I've got an employee, someone who can do that kind of good for me. You're just going to take it, you're going to store it somewhere, that's all, you're going to replace it, that's all. You can get it every three days, five days, every week, but they can get it all here. Now, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... there are many other things like this. Passwords can activate the infrared, disable the transmission of the SD card, or receive the information inside it. Now, let's say... it's done to MPs, so at least there's a possibility that it's done; if it's done, I don't know about it, maybe I should look at it from there, but at least I saw my own advisor installing some of my e-mails to see with me. I didn't let it happen when I saw it. That's why he can't see some phones on his phone either. Now, when you think that, I don't know if the Speaker knows this right or not, but if the MPs are exposed to it, I'm very curious about the status of the citizen; I'm curious about the status of the citizen. E, now you're saying that security was intelligence, they were parallelists, he did this, he did this. How will you control IT anyway? This is a very important issue of personal data, and because no one listens to the law or the law, no one listens to the law, no one listens to the Constitution, no one listens to it, no one listens to it. It may not seem like a problem today, but tomorrow it'll all be trouble for everyone; we'll see, we'll live, we'll see. We've had this data here before... The head of the BTK is here. I've done everything I can to get a ticket for TTNET. A lot of people... And they agreed, and they agreed that they were tagging people, and they gave them a ticket. Yeah, well, the government agreed to an institution that's already been done, but no one knows who this data is going to, what it's going to. They can take your entire private life from the infrastructure of Turkish TELEKOM. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. What am I supposed to trust in this government to protect my personal data somewhere? So, I think this should be reconsidered, and I think this government should be like the government. First you have to trust the government, not the authorities, friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0283par0135	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 29 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 29 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ahmet Kenan Godkulu Necati Özensoy The signatures of the other motion are: Riza Çinmen Haydar Akar Rahmi Love's Style Sinan Aydın Aygün Aytun Çiray Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0284par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0283par0152	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0285par0153	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0283par0154	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0286par0155	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0283par0156	I'm reading the reason: Under Article 29 of the 688 rows of the proposed law, the Constitutional Court shall reorganise Article 51 of Electronic Telecommunications Act 5809, which has been cancelled by its decision on the basis of Article 2013/122, 2014/74, under its decree dated 09,04,2014. The Constitutional Court made this decision on the grounds that the procedure and the basis for the implementation of the material concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of its privacy are contrary to the Constitution's Article 20 Article "The fundamental and procedures concerning the protection of personal data are regulated by law." Under Article 20 of the Constitution, this provision provides a constitutional guarantee for the protection of personal data and thus protection against the arbitrary interference of public authorities. It is unconstitutional to give the executive body the authority to conduct a first-hand regulatory procedure on this matter, which the constitution clearly stipulates to be regulated by the law. The 13th joke of Article 51 of Law 5809, which is envisioned to be reconfigured after the Constitutional Court's decision, also states that the same spirit shall re-organise the sentence, which is the basis for the Constitutional Court's annulment. According to this, the Constitutional Court's annulment of the law was brought back to parliament's agenda with the same mentality as the AKP's insistence. For all these reasons, the proposal must be removed from the proposal text of Article 29 of the law. Mr. Turmen, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0287par0164	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have been re-organised the 51st amendment, which has been revoked by the Constitutional Court of Law Article 5809 under the 29th Amendment clause of the proposal. Of course, since the Constitutional Court has cancelled this, it is now important to look at how appropriate and inappropriate this new arrangement is for the Constitutional Court to call off. The collection of personal data on private life by a public institution is, of course, an intervention in private life. The whole point is, is this intervention legitimate, legal intervention or not? There are certain conditions for legal intervention: first, it has to come from the law. But is it enough that it's due to the law? It's not enough. The law also needs to be accessible, open, predictable, and in accordance with democratic society. Now, even though the title of this article is the processing of personal data and the preservation of privacy, there's nothing in the matter of privacy when you look at it. Personal data has been removed, but no protection is in the material. In Article (1), the principles for the processing of personal data have been set, such as extremely abstract principles, such as conforming to the rules of honesty. There's no telling what happens when the principles aren't followed, there's no way of knowing what's going to happen, there's no way of telling what's going to happen. Of course, the most uncomfortable thing about matter is that the principles mentioned in this article are determined by the institution by the procedure and the basis for the application of the substance by the article's 13th joke. So what he calls the institution is determined by the Information Technologies and Communication Agency. So, embodying matter has been left to work. That's exactly why the Constitutional Court cancelled this clause. What does the Constitutional Court say about the annulment? It says that the executive body cannot be authorized to conduct a direct and first-hand regulatory procedure in matters which the Constitution clearly stipulates to be regulated by the law. The rule of objection, which gives the Information Technologies and Communication Agency the authority to process and determine the rules for the processing of personal data related to the electronic telecommunications sector and the preservation of privacy, is contrary to a guarantee that the procedures and fundamentals for the protection of personal data provided in Article 20 of the Constitution can only be regulated by law. Now, he's trying to get the same reason, the execution, the procedure and the basis of this clause, the same thing from the back door, into the law, of course. The article's (2)th, (4)th, (6)th and sixth jokes are interesting because it is said in the (2)th joke that: "It is forbidden to listen, register, hide, hide without consent." But there is an exception from the other side, except under the preconceived conditions of the relevant legislation. Now, the relevant legislation is so broad, it's got everything from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of National Education, but it's all over the MIT Act, you know. The MIT Law authorises the MIT to receive any personal data it wants without a judge's decision. So what seems to be the exception here is that there's so much space that the exception has actually become the rule here. That, of course, is a major inconvenience. The public benefit of the 5th article is a very broad concept, making the law uncertain. The 7th (7) of the Article (8) is referred to as "open consent" (8). Instead of open consent, it has to be replaced here as a enlightened consent, not a clear consent, so it's not enough for consent, it's important to say that something written at the bottom of such an abonman contract is not enough for consent. You give your consent, and that's what happens when you give your consent. For him, it must be changed to enlightened consent. ▪ Businessmen are responsible for providing the privacy, security, and purpose of this personal data. Why is it only the managers are responsible? It's unclear. So it's not just a burden to be put on the operator, it's not an obligation. Information Technologies and Communications should be given this burden. But that's not in the law. When you add all this up, the law is highly flawed, and most importantly, it's a law that's driven to go behind the back and eliminate the Supreme Court's annulment and re-preservation of the same issues. It seems to me that he's doomed to be rescinded in this regard. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0288par0178	Thank you, Mr. Specten. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently in session in 688 rows, is 30. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Aytücı Haydar Akar Riza Çimen MADDE 30-25/6/2010's "seven days" in its seventh joke, "the longest distance from that route" in Article 30 and fifth of Article 30 of the Law's Articles on Offices of Highways No. 6001 and "the distance from which it entered without paying the passing fee" was added to the article as "the seven days" in its seventh joke. In the first article of this article, which will be applied to foreign license plates regardless of whether its driver is a Turkish citizen, the administrative fines mentioned in the first article are collected with administrative fines and administrative fines included in its second joke, and without the request for notice of the driver. Foreign license plates are not allowed to leave the country without the collection. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this joke are determined within six months by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. International contracts are sealed." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th amendment of the current Law Proposal 688 rows be changed as follows. Emin Çınar Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Erkan Akçay Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu "MEDDE 30-25/6/2010's statement of the General Directorate of Highways No. 6001 on Article 30 of the Law's 30th Article "ten times the transit fee for the longest distance of that route" has been added to the clause "seven days" in its seventh joke as "five times the distance in which it enters without paying its passing fee." (8) The administrative fines specified in the first article of this article, which will be applied to foreign license plates regardless of whether its driver is a Turkish citizen or not, and the administrative fines included in its second joke are collected by informing the driver at the entrance-and-out gates of customs. Foreign license plates are not allowed to leave the country without the collection. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this joke are determined jointly by the Ministry of Interior, Transport, Maritime and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Customs and Trade. International contracts are sealed." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0289par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0288par0200	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0290par0201	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0288par0202	Mr. Emir Çınar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0291par0205	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the National Movement Party Group in Article 30 of the 30. I salute your high council. In this article, the government proposes a fine of ten times the length of that route by the General Director's Office to the owners of the vehicle, who have been found to have passed without paying the transit fee for the roads under which access control is carried out, with this regulation. We, as the Nationalist Movement Party, offer to replace the fee for entry by 5 times as much as the distance from which it entered and exited, and we offer to change the number of days to the 1st amendment of the First Amendment in Article 30 of the Law on the Ministry and Missions of Highways 6001, as the 10th Amendment in its first joke, and in order to make sure that the driver is a Turkish citizen or not subject to the 10 times the longest distance of the accession fee, the payment of the second amount of the money in which he entered and the payment of the transfer fee on which he made was issued, has been informed in the seventh joke of the transfer fee on duty of the first time. And when the collection doesn't take place, we propose that no foreign license plates be allowed to leave the country, and that the procedures and fundamentals regarding the implementation of joke provisions should be jointly determined by the Ministry of Interior, Transport, Maritime and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Customs and Trade. The change in Article 30 reduces criminal sanctions in bridges and highway crossings. The lengthiest distance of the route is the provision of which our citizens have been victimised from seven days to fifteen days in order to get in and out without paying the passing fee. The fulfillment of this arrangement four and a half years after the law has been passed is a clear proof that our citizen has been victimized so far. Dear lawmakers, as law regulations are being made, rules and regulations that provide social order and order so that nations can live a life in prosperity, peace, and brotherhood. These rules provide social order, as well as a deterrent against crime. The needs of society must be considered when and when the rules of society are created and done by law. When a law is made, it must be considered, it must be determined, and most importantly, it must not be rushed. You don't make a law to save people, to strengthen power, to make it permanent. The desires of those who make the law in this way are only for profit and profit. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party, which has ruled our country for 12 years, has made it a tradition to this day, and has now faced the same bag. The AKP, which has made its own law on making bags, is not concerned about the interests of the nation, nor is the country looking out for the interests of the nation. The government spends its time filling it with everything, offering bags, offering the law, which is a sack to us, making arrangements to save the day, to benefit from its allies and its own interests. For the AKP, coupon plots, illegal palaces, are the privileges to be granted to supporters. I hereby await your support for the amendment motion we've made, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0292par0211	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0293par0213	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0292par0214	You're kidding, right?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0294par0215	You know what?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0295par0216	I'm kidding.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0296par0217	No, it's not. Thought I'd wake them up.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0297par0218	I'll do what Mr. Altay says.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0298par0219	You're welcome, Mr. President. The MPs are free. Do as you're told.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0296par0220	Sir, I want the number of decisions enough.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0297par0221	I'll do what the Deputy Director of the Group says.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0298par0222	I do, I do.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0297par0223	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently in session in 688 rows, is 30. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends MADDE 30-25/6/2010's "seven days" in its seventh joke, "the longest distance from that route" in Article 30 and fifth of Article 30 of the Law's Articles on Offices of Highways No. 6001 and "the distance from which it entered without paying the passing fee" was added to the article as "the seven days" in its seventh joke. In the first article of this article, which will be applied to foreign license plates regardless of whether its driver is a Turkish citizen, the administrative fines mentioned in the first article are collected with administrative fines and administrative fines included in its second joke, and without the request for notice of the driver. Foreign license plates are not allowed to leave the country without the collection. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this joke are determined within six months by the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. International contracts are sealed." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0299par0233	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0297par0234	Mr. Vahap chooses to speak, please.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0300par0236	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Article 30 has a regulation on the organization and its duties of the General Directorate of Highways, and the motion for this arrangement aims to redact the matter. Now, my dear friends, transportation, logistics, is an important area, which is also a very important business for domestic transportation and especially for the access to export points of our exports. I'd like to share with you on this occasion a current matter. You know, Mersin-Adana-Hatay, that Indian is particularly important in exports to Gulf countries, the Arabian Peninsula. It is especially important that agricultural products produced in that region reach those export points very quickly. The negative conditions in Syria since 2011 have adversely affected exports in our area. We were able to transport exports from Mersin to Adana, from Hatay, from that Indian to that area, especially by the road transport, by trucks. However, after 2011, those developments destroyed those facilities and were launched by bilateral agreements between Turkey and Egypt, along with the Ro-Ro expeditions to the port of Mersin, to the port of Alexandria. From that region, from Egypt, to Saudi Arabia, to Jordan, to those Gulf countries, exports could be moved. Now, I'd like to give the Minister this warning from here. We have a right to use the road to the Turkish-Egyptian Ro-Ro campaign, which expires on April 24th. Now, you know, after recent developments, our relations with Egypt are extremely tense, and the renovation of this contract seems to be extremely troubling. So your government will have to open an alternate corridor immediately, or you'll have to renew this contract however you're going to make it. What happens if it doesn't regenerate or a new corridor doesn't open? And in the opening of the new corridor -- of course, the people in this sector are doing their research, but this time, the exporter's costs are especially high for transportation. Well, in those markets, the competitiveness is getting tough. So I think your government should take an important step in this matter, and I want to make this a warning from here. Otherwise, of course, let's assume they're not just the transportation industry, but they're going to be very impressed, but... anyway, Turkey needs exports, we're doing all kinds of work to export our products, we're in all kinds of struggles. This kind of trouble is going to undermine our exporters in a sense, and it's going to put our internal production in distress. In particular, exports to those countries will have significant negative effects on agricultural products, or market value, growing in our region, growing in the southeastern region, and growing in those areas. Now, my dear friends, of course, what happened in the Middle East, especially in Syria, does not have any negative impact on the exports of Turkey or on the exports to those regions. Turkey has a visitor's problem from Syria. And we can't find the answer to that. We can't say "multiper," we can't say "dweller." According to the latest AFAD figures, we have 1,88,000 guests, 230,000 live in a tent city. Yesterday on the commission, a matter concerning the Minister, the Foreign Employment Act was adopted. This, of course, concerns Syrian asylum seekers. Now, I'm looking at the latest unemployment figures, and while Turkey is struggling with unemployment at around 11 per cent, in a sense, the fact that this law is coming out is a deal that will cause trouble for us to create jobs or find jobs for our unemployed. This problem is not just a business matter of visitors from Syria. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The problems their cost to Turkey are not solved by the laws we impose on them through temporary measures. What will be done here is the Turkish government's contribution to establishing civil peace in Syria. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0301par0247	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 31, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of Law Proposal 688, we propose that the declaration of the Law shall be changed to,,,,,,,,,, and,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Ahmet Kenan Godkulu Necati Özensoy Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Changes in Laws and Law Orders, which are currently in session, 688 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The Moonbeater of Love Chooses Vacay Haydar Akar Rezatürmen Ali Riza Özturk The statement of Article 1 of the Act 31-6001 has been changed in the form of the fifth (admissible) sign (e.g. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0302par0269	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0301par0270	Mr. Altay, who will speak?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0303par0271	Refik Eryılmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0301par0272	Mr. Refik Eryilmaz is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0304par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I find that you have made a promise on Article 31 of Law Proposal 688. I hereby salute the House with respect. I want to talk about Hatay's problems. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, Hatay has been seriously affected by the wrong foreign policy the government has implemented for four years, especially in a very serious economic difficulty. Can you imagine, across the 900km border, all the customs doors, all the border crossings are closed, and it's become an area where groups of terrorists are running around. Of course, the Cilve Eyes Border Gate is the lifeblood of the region, which has been opening to the Middle East, and unfortunately, it has been closed for four years, and we see that not only that, but other doors other than that are closed. When this portal to the Middle East, which is our lifeblood, was closed, the region's economy was seriously affected, especially exports were at a standstill. While exports have stopped, of course, the shipping sector has been affected, and the tourism sector has been affected, and our citizens in border trade have been affected by this, the tradesman, the farmer, and the region has faced a serious economic challenge. I'm not discussing economic size, social size, cultural size; it's just economic size. According to official figures in Turkey today, unemployment is 11 per cent, but unemployment in the region is approximately 30 to 35 per cent. How do we know that? Our Hatay Metropolitan Municipality has said, "I'm going to buy a thousand-strong worker." More than 30,000 applications have been made. We see that a very important part of these applicants are college graduates. To work for minimum wage, 30,000 applications are made to the city municipality, and nearly 50% of that is a university graduate. So, in a province with so much unemployment, has the government taken any steps to resolve this problem? No. So, did he make any investments, any employment investments, any spikes to address this unemployment issue? No. On the contrary, we see that the existing businesses, existing factories, are closed. See, from December 2014 to today, the work of nearly 800 workers has been terminated, and the slaughter of workers continues. The AKP's ministers have gone there, and I give you a job guarantee. He has pledged to give you a job guarantee. Unfortunately, we face new workers' deductions every day. Dear lawmakers, of course, there is a serious security problem in the region as well as these economic problems. Look, we're just learning that in the last few days, right after the signing of the Educ-Donat Covenant, serious explosives were caught in a vehicle that was ready to explode in Reyhan. Again, explosives were caught in the car that was stopped in Belen, and explosives were caught yesterday in Amanos. We warned from here, we said, "These policies are not for the benefit of the people of Syria or the people of the region, the people of Turkey." There's talk of the deaths of 200,000 people, 300,000 people. But is there no impact on the foreign policy carried out by the AKP government in these deaths? These deaths have reached a point that targets not only a belief, but a religious sect, but all the identities of the people who live there, all the beliefs, all the mosques, all the temples, and the clergy from all sides. Every day in Syria, we wake up with new massacres. Therefore, I address the conscience of the esteemed AKP MPs: this foreign policy does not benefit the people of the region or the people of Syria. This policy needs to be questioned again. I just want to say that this policy that the President and the Prime Minister have put into practice by succumbing to their own ambitions, their own fears, that he insists on implementing, needs immediate reconsideration, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0305par0282	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of Law Proposal 688, we propose that the declaration of the Law shall be changed to,,,,,,,,,, and,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0306par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0305par0290	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0307par0291	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0308par0292	Motive.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0305par0293	I'm reading the reason: The 688th Amendment to Article 31 of Law Proposal No. 688 and Article 6001 of the Interim 1st Amendment to the Sixth Amendment of the Law shall be ordered to serve for ten years from date on the request of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and on the appropriate view of the Finance staff. It is envisioned to organise the period as eight years. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu It was taken out of the text of the substance of the road investment projects, dated 32-10/7/2003, and included in the fifth joke of Article 33 of Highway Transport Law 4925. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0309par0307	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0305par0308	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0310par0309	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0305par0310	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0311par0312	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion for Article 32 of Law Bill 688, which is being discussed. I salute your high council. We demand that this motion prevent the transfer of funds from return capital to land roads. Our main reason here is that the Department of Highways has many question marks in its applications. When we look at the Court reports on this, we see that he spends a lot of money without a project. In 2012 alone, about 972 million were paid for 259 projects that were not part of the program. Again, a total of $1.4 billion has been spent on 949 jobs that are not included in the investment programme and have no funding. So when you look here, as a general part of the Court's reports, it's a place where almost all of its allies are rich, rich, resources are transferred to someone, and from the main sources of illegal enrichment. And when you actually look at it, you can see that even though the double road project, which is one of the government's major projects, is a project that we find correct, unfortunately, when you look at the application, it doesn't turn out to be pure. It was part of a double road project between Adana and Ankara. I've been gone for ten years, and I don't remember going down those roads without being built. Now, if you are doing a way, then do it properly for the sake of God. So you can build a road and do it again a year later? So when you go from Adana to Ankara, what do you see at least 7-8 places? You're seeing a reconstruction. It's done a year ago, and it's done again a year later, so when you look at it, which contractors have done it, who have been given the runts, who have been given the resources, and hopefully we can see them, and hopefully in the next June 7th, whoever ate the property of the nationalist movement party will be asked in a clear account. Speaking of highways, we had a meeting last week with a trucker shop in Adana. What we're seeing here is really pathetic. The entire trucker's shop is in a bleeding structure. Especially because your masoth is too expensive. You're looking at the yachts, the boats, the jets, when they're given cheap diesel, they don't get a discount on mazotta when they come to the trucker, who's been driving for 16 hours and 17 hours with his hard work. So when the children of the minister or the prime minister's kid is a trucker, that's a discount on this mazota? They're saying something again. This happened in Adana, but in many parts of Turkey, the same problem comes up. In 2012, the HGS was transferred. Trucker comes in from Adana, comes out of Tarsus; he's got HGS, he's got HGS, he's got money, but he's got a lot of punishments because he can't read. He's going places, he's applying, he's sending them to the post office, and the other one's sending them to the finances. The penalty for trucks working only in the Gerdibi Cooperative -- there's a cooperative set up by Gerdibi villagers -- is 200,000 lira. I mean, it's a shame, it's a sin! The measures for this must be taken. There's no transport, they can't make a living. Despite much trouble and effort, truckers, formerly called the king of the roads, were at least rewarded for their efforts. The shipping prices are very low today, and they're already having serious trouble finding transport. It's been a long time since you were in power for truckers. No one's considering the measures involved. Private laws are brought here, special regulations are brought here, but none of the practices for the troubled part of society exist here. There are RSCR documents, we're going, we can't get them, every time we go, we charge $200 or $300. Here come the fines for their licenses, 10 points, 20 points. That's where they make their living. And to cover the budget deficit, the cops are staring at truckers, giving them a ticket after a ticket. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0312par0319	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 33 of the current Law Proposal 688, we propose and propose that the fourth joke (b) shall be added after the third joke of the 21st Amendment on Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry's Agency and Missions. M. The Belma Row Rahmi - D of Love. Ali Torlak Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman your love Bak Recep Special "National Ship's Register or ships used to carry commercial cargo registered to the Turkish International Ship's Register, and their qualifications in support of the destruction of those designated by the Ministry of the Ministry, were cashed in to be built in Turkey with a minimum of 35 per cent domestic contribution, to be run by Turkish Flags for minimum five years and to be built within three years, or to be collected in accordance with general provisions, in accordance with the conditions of the sale of the new ships, and not to exceed the price of scraping," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0313par0333	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0312par0334	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0314par0335	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0312par0336	Mr. Durmis Ali Torlak will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0315par0339	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the motion on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding Article 33 of the current bill. I hereby salute your high council. Precious lawmakers have about 30 million dwt capacity, including ships registered in the Turkish shipping fleet's Turkish record and Turkish-owned ships. However, there are only 8.5 million dwt ships in the Turkish record. The average age of these ships is over 20 years old. The average age of Kosster ships, which are concentrated in the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, and the Turkish hull, is over 30. With this aging fleet of ours, the existing commercial needs are not met, but also have environmentally negative effects. Especially with these ships that don't work in the Sea of Marmara, it's a piece of junk. If this clause is properly enforced, our small entrepreneurs with no capital other than their old ship will have a chance to wreck their ships and build a new ship with the scraps they'll receive on condition. New ships to be built under scrap ship incentives will be required to be held at Turkish shipyards as a result of our warnings during the Commission talks, allowing our shipyards to breathe at least a little bit since the 2008 crisis. If this is provided, it will bring with it over 35 per cent domestic contribution to each ship, allowing local industrial products to be used, so that our sub-industrial industry will be free of the shortage of demand within a period of time. It will also open the way for him to speed up his RD work. This will help our local industry move towards new and technological products, which will make our country profitable. In the 1980s, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea region was called the Turkish Lake. It was because of the undisputed superiority of our merchant ships in these areas. However, over the years, wrong and unconscious policies in the naval sector have resulted in our superiority in these areas falling into the hands of foreign countries. Although I have repeatedly referred to this problem on this bench since 2009, the government's insensitive attitude has failed to resolve the problem, as a result, the naval sector has been losing blood day after day after day. Of course, it's important that he be returned from error, because with this clause of the bill we're negotiating, a life water will be given to the marine sector, which has been dying for years. I believe this arrangement will contribute greatly to the re-management of commercial transport in the Mediterranean and Black Sea region, with the fact that the old ships are out of commission and new Turkish flagships are in operation in terms of trade and competition. Controlling these regions means both prestige and great economic gain for our country. Because it's still going to reduce the deficit of our country, which gives us $8 billion per year in shipping alone, with new Turkish flagships to be built. In 2023, there will be no shortage of 30 billion navl per year, and a large contribution to the country's budget will be made. About 16 per cent of tax contributions will return to our state on every ship built in Turkish shipyards and the junk incentive will automatically be met. An average of 200 workers for each ship will be employed for a year. There will be a huge business door for seamen's upper secondary schools and ship officers studying at our universities, and our young population will contribute to the economy. The area of the apocalypse will also stimulate the movement and increase its contribution to the economy. As a result, this arrangement will allow Turkish shipyards to find employment opportunities for at least two or three years, and with the reduction of side industry, employees and the long-term lack of navlul, a multi-directional contribution to the Turkish economy and more than catalyzing the incentives given. With these thoughts and feelings, I look forward to your support of our motion, and I salute your grand delegation. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0316par0350	It's a joint motion, but...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0351	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There is a motion in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special ♪ Wishing Rises ♪ ♪ Love's Love's Love's Love's Detribution of Love ♪ D. Ali Torlak Hakan Çağoğlu The following article has been added to the provisions under the Law Code No. 34-655. The title of the "Survey Specialist" ranked as "Servey Engineer of Marinery" in the Department of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications of the Charter No. 1-190 under Article 1-190. The current "Survey Experts" are considered to be assigned to the "Servey Engineers of Marinery." The financial and social rights and benefits envisioned for the staff of engineers are also applied in their relevant legislation. However, in accordance with Article 9 of Act 375, the additional payment rates for those in the engineering staff have been increased by up to 100 points. They may be assigned to the "Servey Engineers of Marinery," who have served in other titles at the Ministry before the date of the execution of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0318par0366	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0367	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0319par0368	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0369	Who's gonna talk? Under international naval contracts and national legislation, which our country sided with, the ministry of transport, Maritime and Telecommunications's primary duties and responsibilities in the area of naval and service activities are being conducted by existing Ship Survey Experts, taking a key role in all business and operations related to naval affairs. However, the title "Survey Specialty of the Ship" does not meet the work of staff members working in this title, as it is not defined in the personnel legislation. The contract of Ship Sirvey Experts working as pre-contact personnel in accordance with Act 655 has been cancelled and their salaries have been frozen. This arrangement aims to bring the rights of nature closer to its previous state by transforming the "Survey Specialty of the Ship" staff into the title "Servey Engineer of Marinery." I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0320par0375	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0376	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0320par0377	Mr. President, when our friend Ali was speaking, he made a false statement that it was a joint motion, like our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0378	Yes, you spoke at Article 32, didn't you?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0320par0379	Misunderstood, he'll correct it as our joint motion, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0317par0380	Sure, go ahead. Just a minute from your position...
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0321par0384	Thank you. There's been a misunderstanding, sir. This motion was made within the framework of a decision made by our political parties together. When I said that in terms of our proposal, I meant that we should have a joint proposal. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0322par0387	Thank you, too. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. In accordance with Article 91, the Commission's proposals to be considered as a new clause can be discussed and submitted a number of motions in this article. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission participates in the motion with only 21 members, I'm going to open it up as a new clause on the motion. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal 688 rows and other substances be identified. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi İdris Bauken Mehmet Doğan Kubat Alim Işim Recep Special "The term "three years" included in the first article (a) of Article 24 of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet No. 6306, dated 35 - 16/5/2012, has been changed to "six years." Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0323par0404	Mr. President, we agree with the motion only for the most part.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit09spe0322par0405	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. Members of the law, I submit to your votes the motion for the new clause violations: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So a new clause is added to the proposal. Now, in order to avoid any confusion, we will continue to discuss the number of lines through the existing substances. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit10spe0322par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 80th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 688. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization and the Government of the Republic of Turkey for Advent of the Central Agreement and the Association for Black Sea Economic Co-operation for Permanent Moving of the KEI Centre and the Court for Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 9th place, in accordance with the Co-operation and Approval Agreement between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 375 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTROL THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE SUUDI ARABISTAN INVESTIGATION IN THE CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION AND AGREATION OF HELP MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 15 May 2012 in İstanbul. The government of the Republic of Turkey and its Kingdom of Saudi Arabia were approved of Co-operation in Customs and the Agreement for Mutual Aid. Anyone want a word on item 1? No. Those who accept Article 1... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on item 2? No. All those in favor... those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on Article 3? No. I submit the third article to your votes: : Unacceptable... accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote from the Turkish Republic Government and the Saudi Kingdom Government on Co-operation in Customs and Approval Agreement on Reciprocity: ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin the meeting between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission's Reports and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, as well as the draft of the Dair Legislature for Co-operation Between the Kingdom of Saudi Government in Science and Education. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 288 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The government of Saudi Arabia has adopted an agreement between the government for co-operation in the fields of science and education. The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Ankara on March 10, 2010, and the Covenant for Co-operation between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's Government in the fields of Science and Education were approved. Anyone want a word on item 1? No. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to ratify the Covenant for Co-operation in Science and Education Areas: Muhammad Bilal Macit Wish Rise So the bill is legalized. In the 11th place, we will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, where Co-operation Between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is Approvalable in Youth and Sports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, we're here to say good-bye.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit10spe0324par0077	Why? You'll get another one.
tbmm-2015-03-19sit10spe0322par0078	I know, there's another contract. It's gonna be my last procedure, which is why I told you, by the way. Members of parliament, the 24th term is almost over. I probably won't be on the stand anymore this semester either. During the 24th century, there were times when we were all very sad, very angry, and at times we laughed a lot. We made friends and friends. I ask God's mercy again for all my fellow lawmakers who lost their lives during this period. I pray to God for the healing of my ill, ill fellow lawmakers. If I did, I want you to admit that I didn't mean it. I give you all my blessing. Godspeed to you all. I'm saying we'll meet in the 25th term. [[Applause]] We will begin talks by the Turkish-speaking Council for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council for Turkish-speaking countries between the Secretary of Turkish-speaking Countries Council on Co-operation, the draft of the Dair Homehold Country Agreement, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 695 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE LANDS CONTROLATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TOURITY REPUBLICATION IN THE CONTINUATION OF THE ENTIRE ENTIRE ENTIRE ENTIRE LANDS TO CONTINUE THE CONTINUATION OF THE ENTIREMENT OF THE HOUSE ADDDE 1- (1) was adopted on September 26, 2014 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries for Co-operation of Turkish Language and the Council for Co-operation of Turkish-speaking Countries on the Council of Companies under the Agreement for Substantive Protocol on the Household Country. Word on article 1? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare the clear vote of the bill: [[X]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Wish Rise So the bill is legalized. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Monday (March 23rd 2015) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Monday (March 2015). I'm closing the assembly at 00; I'm applauding the 24th term.
