tbmm-2015-01-07sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're reviewing the electronics. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Osmaniye MP Suat Önal, who asked about the 93rd anniversary of Osmaniye's liberation from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Önal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the anniversary of the liberation of Osmaniye (January 7th). I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear MPs, the 93rd anniversary of Osmaniye's deliverance from the enemy's occupation is being celebrated again in Osmaniye. As with every front in the First World War, we remember once again our hero's victory with faith and gratitude in his epic struggle in the absence and negativity of Çukurova. Dear MPs, as you know, were occupied on October 30, 1918 with the idea of the Anatolian Crusader after the signing of the Mondros Investigation. Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa were initially left under the control of the British and then the French. The French later occupied Mersin, Adana, Hatay, and Osmaniye. During this occupation, they brutally slaughtered innocent people, young and old, and angry, and displayed many atrocities that were also a subject to mourning. However, despite this total occupation of the Crusader spirit, which has been eyeing Anatolian geography since the time of the Malazzirt Victory, it has once again become history's hero by writing epics. One of the symbol names of our never accustomed to captivity was Rahime Hatun, who was a martyr in Osmaniye, while fighting heroically for the country. Along with Rahime Hatun, Palalı Süleyman, Hasan Sergeant, Muhammad Hodja, Borazan Mehmet, Nacar Ökkeş, and his friends fought heroically in the salvation of Osmaniye. One of our late poets from Osmaniye, Salih Safa Yazri, You don't know cowards, you don't know them at all, O O Lord, O O Lord, O Osmanimim. Let the writer write you like that. As he described in his poetry, they were not afraid, nor did they desire martyrdom instead of captivity. So that even though our army, our occupied homeland, our young ones, who were arrested everywhere, did not despair and cried out against all absences: This noble nation can't come to the chain of honor, the rank of martyrdom to us! Those who look out for our land of heaven will eventually come to our knees! Let the world know that we have sacred things that will never be abandoned; Don't let our patience run out, see how this world is narrow to you! Yes, in the blood of our heroic acolyte, the struggle with his life finally narrowed down to seven heifers, and they went back as they came. In memory of Rahime Hatun and other martyrs of the Salvation War, and our Ottoman countrymen, who had been the martyrs of Osmaniye Envar-ul Hamit Mosque, where they were just ahead of our Ottoman martyrs, met with a great crowd at the Grand Mosque in the morning prayer this morning, and once again remembered their loyalty in prayer for our martyrs. Dear lawmakers, as you can see, when it comes to the land, the flag, the tyrant, the Turk, the Kurd, the Cypriot, we have the same sensitivity today as we have when it comes to maintaining unity and unity. Praise be to the forces of evil that continue their efforts to disrupt our country's unity and unity, and to their subcontractors, we are one, together, and together we are strong Turkey. May God keep us united and united. On this occasion, I salute you once again, again, to celebrate the salvation of our Ottoman countrymen and all our beloved nation, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who lit the torch of the Salvation War.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Önal. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who wants to talk about the problems in Manisa, due to the snowfall. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0004par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, due to heavy snowfalls, I've been promised off-the-tops about the damage suffered by our Manisa farmers. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, because of the snowfalls of December 30, 31st and January 1st and the following days, over 6,000 farmers have suffered major losses. A total of 26 settlements, particularly the Ilyas, Dynasty, Karakurt, and Copper, were damaged between 30 and 45 per cent of our 1.100 farmers' olive groves. Between 80 per cent and 100 per cent of our 40 farmers' 80 per cent greenhouses have been damaged in six neighborhoods. As a result of the collapse of the clusters, 123,000 chickens were destroyed in the centre of 40krek, Karakurt and Ilyas. In our district of Yunusemre, 1,600 farmers have suffered 70 percent damage to the 9.500-yard olive grove. In 16 villages in the district of Princes, there has been 70 percent damage to the 10,000-yard olive grove of 800 farmers. In Saruhan, there are 60 percent damage to the 27 thousand-yard olive grove of 960 farmers. In Soma Göktaş neighborhood, 30 percent of the olive trees are broken. At the bridge, the centre, the Kemhallı and the Twinskuyu, there are major damage to the 45-year-old strawberry greenhouse of 10 of our farmers. In Akhisar, and in the villages of Yathan, and in the circumcisions, and in the three-parts, and in the oliveliova, and in the city of Qadidadah, and in the midst of the sky, and in the midst of the Selchikite, and in the villages of Tutenli, there was damage that reached fifty percent of the olive groves. Again, more than 90 percent of our 175 farmers in Akhisar Çamönü neighborhood are damaged in a 620-declared greenhouse. Because of the flooding of the Gediz River and the backing of the waterways in the Turgutlu, there was damage to fields, hens and stables, while 20,000 meat chickens were destroyed. For now, our concern is that in Manisa, the temperature drops to minus 7, or even to negative 12. It is estimated that tonight and tomorrow night will be very cold in Manisa. Olives at minus 7 degrees, grapes frozen at minus 12 degrees. We hope we don't face such a disaster. Under the Council of Ministers' Decision dated 13 May 2014, the government says that the debt of Manisa farmers to agriculture loan co-opters and Agriculture Bank will be postponed by 3% of interest for a year. However, that is not what Manisa farmers expect. Our manisa farmers have a five-year interest-free loan demand that their debt to public banks and agricultural loan co-ops be delayed for two years without interest, and that they will be paid back for two years to heal their wounds. On January 1st, 112 paramedics who were unable to reach a patient due to heavy snowfall in Soma have requested a palette ambulance from Manisa. The palette ambulance, which was loaded onto the tow truck, moved from Manisa to Soma, was taken out of Manisa Yeniköy, and was taken to the cantara by the Ministry of Transport. Since the hammer weighed more than 180 kilograms, the hammer was fined 600 lira, and a palette ambulance to the patient was held in the cantar for more than two hours. An attractive and paletted ambulance has been released as a result of persistent initiatives by the National Movement Party Soma. It's really impossible to understand that an ambulance that goes to pick up a patient in a two-hour cantar when seconds are important in saving lives. Again, due to the snowfall, the Manisa-Izmir road closed for 48 hours. After privatisation of the fight against snow and the maintenance of land roads, the Argelbe was given to the subcontractor company, which had no information, no savings, and no experience. The Manisa-Fishesir road has been closed for 48 hours due to inadequacies in the fight against snow in the region of Çaçakçı and Dönbe. It's a matter of maintenance and repair of snow struggles and land roads... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is mandatory to reconsider the decision to give specialization and subcontractors. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0005par0047	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. The third statement outside the agenda belongs to İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu, who wants to talk about the problems of İzmirin Kemalpaşa district. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0006par0052	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to start by showing you a human view, a photograph from Turkey, while I give the first speech of the new year, wishing that the new year would bring good things both to our House and to our country. The photo is small, but we have friends who won't see it. So, I'll try to get you to see this photo by telling you. This is a photograph of the battle carried out by security forces in the opening of a quarry 650m away from the village of Akalan, which we can now call the village of Kemalpaşa. We would be especially happy if my friends, the AKP MP, saw the picture and tried to change its view. Because the view is that a quarry is being opened in the village of Akalan in Kemalpaşa, Akalan, and the villagers do not want it to be opened. Security forces are covering the perimeter around the business machine that's going to open the quarry. It's surrounded by peasants. No parallels, no DHKP-Cs, no CHPs, just peasants. They don't want it opened. There's only one way to change this view. Once again, I open the first talk of the new year, with security forces trying to plunder the villagers' land, opening a quarry near the village for more profit, and instead of protecting the labor machines that carry land from the meadows to destroy their meadows, I wish they'd become a spectacle to protect the villagers. The village of Akalan is one of Kemalpaşa's cutest villages. It's made up of peasants who grow good crops with their cherries, olives, walnuts, and grow them. But on December 29, 2014, the villagers learn that business machines want to come to a land near the village and open a quarry, and on December 30th, we warn the governorship through the press and our petitions. Do not allow the quarry to be opened two miles from the olive trees to be opened within a mile of the village. Because the villagers here say a quarry close to 650 metres to the school where they teach their children will threaten their safety. Again they came across something that had been taken from the hands of this All-city Law, and then handed over to the treasure, and it was destroyed to carry land, a fact that was seen in this photograph. I've been there. I've seen it. Half the place they used as Mera started moving because they needed land elsewhere. Here's a fact that all my friends take into account... because we know that AKP İzmir MPs can't do much to solve the big problems... and can't stop them, or that they can't control the government in solving the problems. But this problem has come to a point today where the villagers and security forces face each other. Again, our friends from our lawmakers tried to prevent and prevent an unwanted incident from happening there, increasingly meeting with law enforcement, security forces. But tomorrow, if we don't want the peasants' rebellion to move to bigger spots... I'll be right back with a document for our minister. The same is the expression of the document I received from the website of Highway AŞ. The distance of the quarry to the village centre is 1 km. The school is just a little further from the village center - I went with the villagers and measured it myself - 680 meters. Don't let a quarry within 680 metres of the school open with more profit ambitions, prevent that. Obstruction is not just a parliamentary mission, it's a human problem. In this regard, together, the villagers are willing to sacrifice their lives to prevent this quarry from being opened here, but we don't want it to come to this point, nor do you want it to. So we ask that our ministers and executives begin the necessary attempts to stop this incident and open the quarry further away.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system, and I'm going to give the MPs a minute of my word. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. In the southeast, terror has gone too far. There's no telling who's running the place. What's going on in Hakkari, the public doesn't know. Armed, faceless groups marching the streets in military order terrorize the cities of the region. State-owned citizens are being driven out of the region. The government is being driven out of the area. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) declares autonomy in Cizre. City vehicles dig ditchs in and out of the neighborhoods. Security forces are just watching what's going on. PKK elements clash for hours with HEDAPAR in Cizre. The state's security forces are nowhere to be found. During the shootings, the houses are on fire, and the municipalities don't send fire to put out the fire. PKK security tents are being set up in the region, PKK diapers are hanging; the government is not making a sound. I once again urge the AKP's power to take care of its citizens, the region and the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0009par0069	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating the new year of all our MPs and citizens, wishing them a healthy, happy, and hopeful year. The Mudanya State Hospital, despite all warnings from the Mudanyans, was built in an impromptu location in terms of transportation. The roads have closed as a result of recent snowfalls, and patients in the 78,000-strong district have not been able to use emergency health services. I would like to remind you once again of the intense complaints from our Mudanian countrymen, inviting authorities to take the necessary precautions to prevent a repeat of similar tribulations.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0012par0078	Mr. President, as Mr. Moroğlu, our İzmir MP, has just stated, Kemalpaşa is one of the districts of İzmir's pupil, a region in which both agricultural areas and organised industry live. If we're not sensitive to protecting agriculture in that sense and developing industry there, we're really going to take Kemalpaşa, the center of the cherry, away from agriculture and move this area to a serious place. What is happening in Akalan is a complete and unremarkable intervention in agriculture and human life. It's one of the most important acts today to be licensed to stone pits without a CED report, with understanding that children who leave school will be subjected to the risk of being hit by truckloads carrying stones and stones are being interrupted by such ruthless, profit-hungry, short-range gains. I'm warning the Minister of Environment and Urbanism once again.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0011par0079	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Two days ago, many newspapers reported that the Civil Solidarity Platform had declared its rightful will. This declaration itself is a criminal element. I would like to call on the Speaker of the Parliament to immediately issue a statement against the Constitutional Court, which defies national will, and is its top enforcer, the Constitutional Court, which has issued a declaration of insults and threatening statements against the democratic regime. In the declaration, it is insulted not only to respect the decisions made by this great Assembly, but to the MPs here representing every view of the country, and to the votes of the people who carried us here. Those who view the process as a coup attempt on the Constitution and Parliament to take the real blow. Such a statement, unfortunately, is normal, as in the case of the imam and the congregation, where the person in charge calls the deputy of the nation. Those who allow it, those who ignore it, and those who don't, will be remembered and blamed as partners in this crime today and tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0014par0087	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0015par0090	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, in 2014, last year, our country broke the record of the republic's history and made an export of 157 billion,600 million dollars. Our Scholarship carried out 12 billion 750 million dollars of this export and carried out 8 per cent of the country's exports. Our Bursaian industries, which carried out 8 per cent of the exports, carried out the exports of the country, along with trees and forest products, cement industries, valuable minerals, metals, electric industry products, ship and yacht industry, ready clothes, confection, climate industry, mineral and metal industry, machine and other parts, have produced the exports of anti-industrial and automotive products. The $863m part of this export has also been carried out in Balkan countries, which are very close to our neighbour. I thank our exporters, our workers, our engineers, our industrialists, and our producers in the agricultural sector, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0014par0092	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0016par0095	Mr. President, nine AKP members of the bribery and corruption commission have expressed their views that the four ministers should not be sent to the Supreme Court. I believe that these nine MPs, who say they are religious and say that eating a slave right is a sin, have voted in this direction, thinking that the meaning of the decision they made was not in fact committed by the four ministers, that it would be unfair for the four ministers to be sent to the Supreme Court, and that the number of participants involved in this corruption was greater. That should be the most conscientious reason for the nine MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, there are power shortages in many parts of Mersin, especially in Tarsus and Yenice. Citizens are about to go mad. A few days ago, more than 1,500 citizens signed their signatures in Tarsus alone and complained to the governorship but did not get any results. Similar problems occur in our district of Gülnar. After privatisation of strategic energy services, the AKP government placed the money in the safe and victimised the citizen. No infrastructure work is being done on the distribution of electricity. The AKP government is trying to build a nuclear power plant on the other hand, which is failing to deliver a simple electricity business and screwed up. That's a hell of a contradiction. Mersin doesn't need a new energy source, he needs a government that thinks about citizens and works better. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0018par0104	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Farmers and animal producers from the District of Sulusaray in Tokat Province and Erbörlı districts say they have been in a huge debt pile of debt left over the past year by phone, if the banks and agricultural loan co-ops are not structured and new loan opportunities are not created, they will lose their farms and their last animal left behind. Like a slap farmer, this situation is worse all over our country. The farmer's voice must be heard by the Minister of Agriculture and the government. Otherwise, in 2015, production will be in complete halt; Turkey will become an importing country, not an importer. For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0021par0114	Mr. President, there are problems in our country due to snowfalls, roads, heating and other services. Although today's biggest challenge is in electrical energy, as we all know, electricity distribution companies have been privatised by AKP governments to provide better quality and cheaper services, we have come back 50 years earlier, especially thanks to Sedaş, who is responsible for the areas of Kosheli and Sakarya. He has a special location. Many of the dwellings are heated by natural gas, as natural gas came to the city before you. Because of 70 hours of frequent interruptions, humans have been condemned to live in the cold. Electricity is often cut in many villages in the districts of Gölcuk, Kandıra, Cartepe, and even in the centre of the city. By God, Denmark, Switzerland, Canada, it didn't snow 5 meters, it snowed 10 feet, and the apocalypse broke. The Minister of Science, Industry and Technology has forgotten that they've been running the country for 12 years and asked what age are we in? Now I ask him: What have you been doing for 12 years?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0020par0115	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Dalyan...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0022par0118	Mr. President, we've learned with deep regret that one of our police officers lost their lives last night at the Tourism Branch Directorate of Istanbul Security Directorate in Sultanahmet. I'd like to point out that we strongly condemn this foul act of terrorism. Our martyr police deeply share the pain of Kenan Kumash. Patience and endurance to his family and relatives, and urgent healings to our two wounded police.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0020par0119	Thank you, Mr. Dalyan. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0023par0122	Mr. President, activities are continuing to disrupt natural life in Izmir and its environment. Again, like the example of Kemalpaşa Akalan village, the Muhtar of Bagaklı Karakuyu neighborhood is writing a petition to the governor's office, saying: "They are also saying that in the case of this furnace, there should be a license for oliveyards, farmlands, water basins, especially wooded dams, the health of the village. The damage to the people of the village is going to be huge. Again, they are saying that it should have been given a license to an agricultural operation 100-150m away from Karakuyu village and that it should not have been able to operate 100-150m further from the village of Karakuyu. I've made a commitment to warn our minister and our MPs about this and call them on the mission. Kiraz's Mukhtar of Ahmetler also said that there was a new neighborhood -- that the chestnuts on the Aydın Nazilli border were ordered by the Council of Ministers to establish the ReES again, and I want to prevent that too.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0020par0124	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0024par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. My condolences to our police officer who died in yesterday's attack, to his family and to all our officers. The Justice and Development Party sells all of Turkey's values to prolong its political life; it opens up looting, looting. Forests, streams, national parks are being destroyed. In Antalya, cedars of the century are cut down in the Citadel region; the quarry, the marble furnace, destroys centuries of trees. This is also the natural habitat of the temple chosen as the symbol of EXPO 2016 and is heavily destroyed. You're going to make a symbol, and you're going to wipe it out. It is an application of AKP's inconsistencies. Antalya contributes billions of dollars to the country's economy through tourism and agriculture. The Justice and Development Party is destroying all its natural beauty to get more than Antalya. This has to stop. Antalya must be protected by a special law. The quarry must be stopped from destroying a city of tourism. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0025par0132	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0026par0135	Mr. President, it's been snowing in D.C. for two days now. Meteorology warned me days ago. Snow in the main arteries, blocking transportation, can't even get into the alleys. Financially damaged traffic accidents have exceeded hundreds. There are wounded, people falling on the ice or getting hurt by vehicles. Our elderly and disabled brothers are off the streets. The Metropolitan Municipality and Mayor Melih Gökçek, where we have delivered Ankara, are just watching. Unfortunately, there are no means to fight the snow, but only once a day for show. If that's the way downtown Ankara is, I'm curious to know how the towns and villages you've connected with the Allşehir Law are. I urge Ankara Metropolitan Municipality to do its duty, and I call upon the government to alert this person we have delivered the capital immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0025par0137	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0027par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. The orange is in the tangerine branch. No one's selling for 20 to 25 cents a kilo. 32,000 farmers are crying blood. The government is watching, I'm afraid. Especially from Hatay to Balıkesir, our farmers in the coastal provinces are unfortunately watching tangerines in their trees these days. There are torture sounds coming from Antalya Prison, and we have young people on hunger strike as a result of torture. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Justice Department are unfortunately not taking precautions. I'd especially like to get the government's attention on this. Torture has increased in Turkey's prisons. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0028par0144	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Warker...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0029par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. AK PARTI for Syrian refugees in the Co-ordinating of İstanbul Provincial Presidency, Help. With the slogan for the campaign, Kurdish, Turkmen, Arab, Ezidi, a total of 134 truckloads of equipment, consisting of 120,000 blankets, 17,000 stoves, electric heaters, 27,000 boxes of winter clothes, 50,000 pairs of shoes, 180,000 hygienic materials. I thank our helpful brothers and sisters. And for the distribution of these materials, I would like to inform you that we will be in Urbana at the weekend as Istanbul MPs.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0028par0149	Thank you, Mr. Fighter. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0030par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is January 7th, the 93rd anniversary of the liberation of Osmaniye province from enemy occupation. As the Republican People's Party, we congratulate our Ottoman citizens on this blessed day. We remember all our martyrs who fought heroically in the salvation of Osmaniye, and Anatolia, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. Of course, we hereby invite the government to take office at the point of our province of Osmaniye, where we can resolve the problems of our Ottoman citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0031par0155	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0032par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today is actually Osmaniye's day of victory. I'm really celebrating this victory on January 7th. I bow to those who wage this battle against imperialism, in the memory of Solomon the Machete, in the memory of Rahime Hatun, in the memory of Kelce Ali, in the memory of the Ottomans. I think these days should be considered an example to the games of imperialism and the traps of solutions. In this framework, Osmaniye has earned the title of bravery in his struggle, and I hope that he will take the necessary steps to give Osmaniye this title of valor. Today, in honor of Osmaniye's salvation, our President is with them in Osmaniye, on this day of salvation, on this day of victory. Hopefully, this day of salvation of the Ottomans will truly be an opportunity for both the title of valor and the service of Osmaniye, where these brave people are. In addition, in the village of İzmir Kemalpaşa Akalan, in the face of the environmental slaughter of the quarry, let the people live. I urge the government to be sensitive to this attempt that will kill and destroy you. In this framework, I would like to take this opportunity to express my participation in the response of valued lawmakers. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0033par0162	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0034par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I mentioned yesterday that the Rize Administration Court made an excellent decision regarding the battle against Cerattepe in Artvin. Yesterday evening, at five o'clock, the Artvinians gathered before the Ataturk monument, celebrating this magnificent decision with great joy and enthusiasm, without partying. I'd like to thank Green Artvin Association President Neşe Karahan, who has had great efforts to make this decision, and Bedrettin Kala, a member of the Turkish Association's Environmental Commission for Bars, who has made great efforts to carry out this case, once again from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And I'm giving the Minister this wonderful news, this wonderful news. Mr. Secretary, if you remember specifically about those trees being cut down, you were in such a hurry, it's in a way that we've prevented the trees from being cut down by this court order. I'm guessing you're happy about that, too, because the massacre of the forest has been halted by the decision of the Rize Administration Court. There is a saying in this country that there are judges in Berlin. We have seen that there are judges in Rize. I congratulate the honorable judges of the Rize Administration Court once again on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I want to point out that this fight is a matter of honor for Artvin, and that our fight against the network that wants to murder Artvin will continue forever.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0035par0168	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Row, finally.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0036par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today the anniversary of the Democratic Party, which was founded under the leadership of our fallen Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, and served the Turkish nation for ten years. Sixty-nine years ago, the Democratic Party was granted the unique love of the Turkish people and has written its name in gold on the history page. If we can talk about democracy today, I think we owe it to the martyrs of democracy and the vast tolerance of our great nation. Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words about yesterday's incident in Sultanahmet, where, unfortunately, a young police officer was murdered as a traitor. They say the fire burns where it fell, but because of this incident yesterday and our fallen police officer, we're all burned up. May God have mercy on this young and new baby of ours. I wish for patience for his wife, his family, his parents. May his place be in heaven. My condolences to the police department. I wish our wounded officers a speedy recovery. I believe this and such activities will not disrupt our unity and unity. We have no doubt that the perpetrators and their supporters will be found shortly. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0037par0175	Thank you, Mr. Row. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the results of the implementation of policies and works of countries that set an example for social gender-sensitive budgeting, the impact of social-sex-sensitive budgeting policies in ensuring the equality of women-men, the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to work with people who are experts in the field of managing mechanisms. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] It's very important that the state, as in all the world, creates policies to achieve that equality in all areas in order to ensure the equality of gender. The most effective way for women to fight discrimination in areas such as employment, education, health, and political integration is through social gender-based budgetation. If the central budget planned to meet society's collective needs, education, health, social security system, employment, transport, is not planned to eliminate gender inequality in all areas, it will not be possible to prevent discrimination against women. Such a budgetation should be seen to have an effect on the creation of socially happier, freer individuals, as women who make up half the population have increased the level of education and health care. In 2003, 12 European countries took action by accepting gender-sensitive budgeting policies. In Turkey, it is clear that there are only limited amounts of projects and that there are no improvements except for the publication of some generalities. Women's Status (KSGM), which is obliged to work on gender equality at the central level of gender, has brought public gender-sensitive budgetation on the agenda. The institution's strategic plan includes transitional policies based on social gender budgetation. "We are making our budget sensitive to social gender," Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said on December 8, 2011, during a 2012 budget presentation at the Grand National Assembly. the subsection is the first one to become an IRS document. But nothing has been taken in this area since the Ministry said so. Social gender-sensitive budgeting does not mean female budget separation or equal budget spending for men and women. When we look at other countries, for example, Sweden, where the ministry of equality is one of the most successful countries in social gender-sensitive budgeting. In determining each ministry's own policies, gender equality policies are based. In Britain, budget talks are reported with all kinds of analysis of economic, social, cultural areas based on gender, and as a result of these analyses, for example, 95 per cent of the budget for employment can be earmarked for boosting women's employment. In order to achieve gender equality, development must be adopted as a basic principle of its plans. In sectoral priorities, concrete and qualitative measures must be maintained. A policy must be followed to ensure gender equality while both financial and monetary policy is monitored. For this, special precautionary pens must be added to the budget. The application results must be evaluated and audited with independent monitoring mechanisms. Of course, it is incumbent on a government political commitment to do all this. Only then can a budget be made that is sensitive to social gender. In this context, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be opened by working with experts in the central and local budget work in Turkey to investigate the impact of TCDB policies in ensuring the equality of women and women's work, to investigate the consequences of the implementation of the policies and works of countries that set an example of TCDB. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There are two general consultation motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 25 April 2012, I would like to ask the Constitution to open a general discussion under Article 98 of Articles 98 of the Constitution and Article 103 of the Interior Charter, published on 26 April 2012 by the President, as well as by Article 102 and 103 of the Law on the Sale of Agriculture Lands of the Treasury. [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Sakarya]] 8) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Paddles]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 20) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 21) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] On 25 April 2012, a series of setbacks arose in the implementation of the Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands, which was confirmed by the President on April 26, 2012 by Forest Villagers No. 6292. The law, in the name of the Treasury, has been discussed only to gain income by leaving aside the social dimension for the evaluation of places that have been taken out of the forest. The development of forest villagers is supposed to be the spirit of the law, but the forest and forest villagers are not important in this law by providing a very low amount of resources. This practice speeds up the migration from village to city. So far, the failures in the application of the Law have shown itself and have been able to apply for about 300,000 rights owners from 450 thousand owners. The alleged forest for cases that have been opened and finalised, and the result of further lawsuits, the lack of regulation about places to become a forest, the future of legal difficulties, will increase the difficulties in the implementation of the law. There have been problems with prices in many places, there have been problems with values that have not been shown, there have been victims due to unjust price settlements, and the right to object under the relevant clause stated in the law has closed the legal path. Therefore, this law contains a violation of the Constitution. It is also not the same approach that these places, which have completely lost the quality of the forest in science and science, have been exposed to urbanization and industrialization, are equitable with the forest villager and the government. As a matter of fact, the victims of the forest villagers have been personally identified in our research expeditions. Although the application period has been extended for three months, the cost of price appreciation for the rightful owners is a serious challenge. The price comes with serious social problems, especially in rural areas, where the villagers will not be able to buy their land at these prices. The casualties of our citizens who will lose their rights for not finding the money to apply in some places and rural areas must be resolved. Taking away our people's land for economic reasons and using their land for years will cause new problems. The implementations of the Finance Ministry must be coordinated with the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and must be resolved. For reasons stated above, it is necessary to establish general discussion under Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 102 and 103 of the Civil Code to establish the necessary solutions and to determine the problems of the laws on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands in the name of the Forest and to evaluate the Expeditions in the name of the Treasury. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the work conducted by the Prime Ministerial Public Housing Administration (TİKİ), we submit a general discussion on behalf of the Milliyetian Movement Party Group in accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems of our citizens who are victims and the problems of their homes produced in different regions and provinces, the issues of their delivery and use. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President The problem of housing and housing today is especially at the top of the most important problems that developing countries have to deal with. One of the most important problems of our country, no doubt, is the housing issue, as many people know. This problem is still widespread, and it concerns millions of our people. The President of the Public Housing and Public Partnership Administration was established in 1984 in order to resolve these problems and reduce unemployment by increasing housing production. Sadly, however, his serious and efficient work was no longer able to continue during the early beginnings of TOKI. We understand this especially from the dissatisfaction of our citizens, their victimism, and their right to complain that they're being delivered and that they're continuing projects. Today, almost everywhere there are complaints from TOKI's services about projects. Reports on these issues almost daily in print and visual media show that these problems are increasing. Victims' reactions are rising like an avalanche. Complaints and reactions from TOKI projects are increasing every day, where it will decrease. If we briefly list problems related to TOKI centuries ago, There are problems with the delivery or delivery-time dwellings. Kütahya Province, Simav district reported that the houses and workplaces of the city of Simav on May 19, 2011 were tendered and heavily damaged by TOKI and delivered to its owners at the end of 2011, which was built by the MAKSEM firm, but that the apartments established after the surrender date of the dwellings, were verbally and writtenly incomplete. Environmental order is not made in a qualified manner. The dwellings are not delivered on time, contrary to protocol. Our citizens, most tenants who plan ahead, are therefore in great straits. The problems that the TOKI can't pay the contractors or the lateness of it, the workers' subcontractors' victims, and the damage done to construction by the victims, are increasing day by day. Our citizens, who are home in installments from TOKI in our country, are having serious problems. With the impact of the economic crisis, there is great difficulty in paying, causing our citizens to suffer the loss of housing from the TOKI. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, and landslides, are common in our country. The biggest loss of life and property after the earthquake among these disasters is the flood. Finally, on July 4, 2012, the debates on construction and location were highlighted in the wake of the flood in Canik district of Samsun. In particular, it has been one of the most unsatisfactory issues that have been made about the wrong choice of places for TOKI dwellings, where most of their lives have been damaged. It is the main duty of the state to provide basic services such as safety of our citizens, education and health, to provide infrastructure services such as roads, water, electricity. In this sense, the flood in Samsun must be dealt with thoroughly, as soon as possible, as soon as possible, as soon as possible, as soon as possible, the wounds will be covered. The ceremony of surrenders of TOKI dwellings has been transformed into a show of political power. For example, TOKI has been transformed into a government used as a means of political propaganda using public resources. Many expenses are being paid on the backs of our citizens who bought homes from TOKI. Thus, the TOKI has become an institution that finances the Prime Minister's meetings. In the course of the process, the TOKI moved to a position with immunity under the Prime Minister's protection. Neither the allegations of corruption nor the suffering of the public. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take its place on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks on the amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter and the Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked third in the Turkish Republic and the Jordanian Hashimi Kingdom, in favour of ratifying the Treaty of Nakline Dair. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 4th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 616 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word on the entire bill belongs to Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan. Here you go, Mr. Aldan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0038par0335	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 616 rows. I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to divide a paragraph into the late Murat Bozlak. We have come together in this life, and we have often come together unpleasantly. When I was a bureaucrat, when he was a lawyer, when he was a party president, we fought a lot from time to time. The interesting thing is, we get to know each other well, our wives do, but I think it's appropriate to describe Murat Bozlak, especially today, to make an assessment based on the political profile: he didn't need anything at all, he was a good, good lawyer. But he's been through a lot, lying in prisons, being shot, coming back from the dead, in front of his family, and maybe we didn't like some of his ideas, but he was a primitive man, a primitive politician. A strange disease took him away from us. And a man's life should be an example in a sense, you're here today, you're gone tomorrow. What you leave in this world is important, sometimes, even if you don't like the idea, if you're dealing with a human primitive, if it's a primitive idea of politics, you have to respect it. I'd like to reminisce about Murat Bozlak. Dear MPs, in fact, the internal and external protection of prisons has been varying for many years, so the internal protection was carried out by the Department of Justice, by the Department of Justice, by the Department of Justice, by the prison headquarters, while the foreign protection mission was mostly carried out by the gendarmes, and the gendarmes of the Ministry of Interior were carrying out this task. Basically, the goal was to build a self-control system. So when we give the prison's internal protection to the Department of Justice, let's give its external protection to the gendarme who works in another ministry, build a control mechanism, and it's been going on for years. But it turns out that in the process, there were circumstances that would have been extremely wrong. Sometimes because the gendarmes were not found enough, the prisoners were not brought to relevant locations during the time of the prisoners, and in that sense there were loss of rights. We, the Republican People's Party, feel that as a rule, this arrangement is a positive arrangement. So we're positive that the outside protection of the prisons is now taken from the gendarmes and given to the outside security unit within the execution institution again. I'm going to continue with an interesting case: One New Year's Day, when I was a city prosecutor in Anatolia, I decided to go to prison and celebrate the Christmas of prisoners and prisoners. When I went to the prison, there was a soldier at the door, standing guard, I walked in, I rang the doorbell -- it was closed -- ten minutes, fifteen minutes, no one answered the door, and after a while, a civilian dressed in sweat came running and opened the door. I said, "Who are you?" I said, "I am a prisoner, sir." He said, "Where are the keys?" I said, "No sir, he's gone." He said, "Where did he go?" I said, "He went to his house." He said, "What is this key doing with you?" I said, "He trusts me a lot, he left me the keys to the prison." He said, "I didn't open it for him for ten minutes." He said, "I didn't open the door for him." Of course, it turns out that there's only one officer, no one else to keep watch, there's a lack of staff; there's a prisoner who's going to be released in a day; he's going to be released in a day; he's going to release me on New Year's Eve, and I'm going to keep you alive. Of course, the carabinieri watched it without knowing anything. In this sense, if we take this example, we can't say that this auto-control mechanism works very well in Turkey. But if there is an assignment in the same ministry, which means that both internal and external security of the prison is assigned to the same ministry, then there is also an audit problem. You'll lose the self-control in a sense. Then what needs to be done is that prison monitoring boards are made up of objective individuals, a good control mechanism needs to be maintained. During the talks on this bill, we, the Republican People's Party, insisted that the prison monitoring boards become truly independent people, but our efforts were sadly ignored. One important problem with this arrangement is the use of a weapon. In the course of the legal arrangement, if the use of a weapon is disproportionate, the consequences may arise, and we have concerns. Our friends will share them with you as soon as they're in line. Dear lawmakers, another situation is the issue of compensation for employees in prison. The subcommittee envisioned a truly considerable compensation system, while the main commission turned the compensation into a bird. From here, I expect the General Assembly's will to ensure that the entire prison staff is again compensated on the subcommittee's borders. Mr. Attorney General isn't here yet, but his bureaucrats are here, and I'd like to say one more thing already. We get a lot of calls from prisons. People have been informed that there will be a reduction or increase in supervised freedom, a reduction in execution, which may be hearsay. We urge the Minister of Justice to come up here and give clear answers on this matter. I mean, is there really a picture of taking a year to two years in terms of security measures, or is there going to be a change in the execution law? Dear lawmakers, I've said these things on the whole of the law. In the following part of my talk, I'd like to share with you some information about some of the current issues. This is the matter of the destruction of the gang, and then...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0039par0344	Why are you getting into this?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0038par0345	I'll tell you, but I'll give you some technical information. I'm not a polemic man, Ramadan.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0039par0346	No, I know, that's why I said it.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0040par0347	We're counting on you, brother.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0038par0348	Now, here's the thing...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0041par0349	The polemic guy will be out soon, too, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0038par0350	Sure, I'll do it.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0042par0351	No, I'm just saying it because we respect it.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0038par0352	Now the money of the people has not been eaten. There's a saying that there's a kind of mitigating definition of corruption. It's just that government money hasn't been eaten. Now, I'd like to tell the law-equivocalists that if you eat government money, it's not a crime, it's not a bribe, it's an embezzlement. Then you'd be embezzled. And why is bribery eaten? Bribery is a state-of-the-art abuse of public office. It's a matter of financial gain to do or not to do something. The Constitutional Court is not a place to be acquitted. There is such a saying. Of course, judicial authorities are not a place to be cleared, but judicial authorities are a place to be judged. If people trust themselves, if they have no guilt, if they believe they are innocent, they demand to be acquitted. The court will either clear it or punish it. Then, a new saying arose. The Constitutional Court is not a place to prove your innocence. Courts are a place to prove their innocence. I mean, a minister of state said that, Deputy Prime Minister. No, personally, the courts are the place where a person says, "I'm innocent. I'm innocent." He'll come out, he'll say: "I'm innocent, therefore I'm innocent." Then we have a lot of friends here, friends who stay in prison, valuable people. They've been locked up for years without even knowing their crimes. They tried to explain their innocence, they kept trying to do it, and in the end, the truth gradually came out. Such understanding should not be found in democratic countries, where there is rule of law. What do you mean, I'll give you your punishment? It also means that it's a great disrespect to those people: they're criminals. So, when a minister of a state comes out and punishes the former ministers, we say, "Yes, we accept their guilt." It means a great contradiction. In one speech, I said: "The Justice and Development Party is a pragmatic party. " But the problem here isn't going to be cut out because it's not the line, it's the beginning. I said it's the speech. At this point, we've got nine members of our Justice and Development Party come to us and we've been keeping some of what some of our friends have been telling us about their voting choices in this investigation. That's our reaction. Yes, much has changed from December 22 to the 5th. No one cares about the four ministers, and no one cares about the four ministers being tried. Here's what's done: a sense of gratitude has come out, a sense of gratitude based on the protection of one person. And, of course, the word in that famous ad also is very important: those who owe their political careers and gains to the shadow of a strong will, it says. He does not speak of sound will, but notice, he says to his shadow; he despises it; you are small creatures; you are near strong will. And it turns out that the strong will can get in the way of the conscience, that's the point. There's no need to look for a legal excuse, a political excuse. Four ministers, like I said, nobody cares. Only when the possibility of some involved in the Constitutional Court process arises, such an operation has been carried out, and the friends of Justice and Development have fulfilled their gratitude, accepting that they grow in the shadow of strong will, the issue is as simple as that. At this point, of course, one of the important things to focus on about this investigation is the prosecution's investigation into December 17th and 25th crimes. The first thing a justice inspector of a republic's attorney looks at as soon as he comes in is, what kind of transaction did he make with the prisoner? The D.A. has to press charges against someone who's been arrested or even sent to arrest him. If he doesn't do that, he'll get a bad scratch on his record, and all the Republican prosecutors will feel obligated to prosecute a man who's been arrested. Why? Because the prosecution is a whole, enough evidence for the person that a prosecutor has sent to arrest and arrested is re-accepted. Therefore, the friend who will be an Istanbul prosecutor is obliged to file a civil suit against people who have been arrested, imprisoned for months, who have been in prison, and who have been arrested despite numerous appeals to judges who have not been eliminated. I mean, he has this obligation, and since one person's been arrested, if there's enough evidence to arrest him, because people can be arrested in the presence of strong suspicion, but if there's enough evidence, there's a lawsuit. Look, I'll point out that to get arrested, you need strong suspicion, just enough simple evidence to prosecute. In this sense, the oasis has been carried out in a legal sense, and unfortunately, the High Assembly has been a tool for it, and it continues. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address a topic on the agenda, which is the matter of the destruction of the gang. Yes, according to Article 135 of the Penal Code, phone calls between those who have the right to avoid testimony will be destroyed immediately. There is a definition, but this is the work of law enforcement. If law enforcement finds out that the father and son are being bugged, then they should do it immediately, but it's way past that stage, a year after that, the prosecutors have been waiting for papers, they're here, they're no longer authorized to destroy at this point. Why? Because both sides are suspects, so both fathers and sons are suspects. Then I'll ask you, "Oh, the right to refuse to testify later." No, that's not important. Then you'll make it clear to the father and son to commit crimes. And I ask you, weren't we aware of these things at the time? Why didn't the Justice and Development Party's Group say yes to this parliamentary investigation, and ask for the destruction of these men? He personally approved it. Thus, in such a painting, this Commission cannot perform this destruction. First of all, this. Second: The preliminary investigation is not yet over, and this will continue until the General Assembly vote is finalised. From what I've heard, they're going to go on a rampage like this. That is a clear crime, and those who do so will be tried when their MPs are over for destroying evidence. Certainly, such destruction is against the law, and I would like to address the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey here: Please, have him stop this initiative. Let him hold the General Assembly meeting, and after the General Assembly meeting, a decision can be made based on the outcome. Exterminate that this Commission does not have the authority to destroy documents, it returns them. And if you believe in secrecy, you put it in a sealed envelope. All of our property statements are protected at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, this entire House is capable of concealing these 14 public phone calls. Dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to address one more legality regarding my own constituency. There's been an act of Iztuzu lately. And here we see the trail of a major discrimination. In the last local elections, the Republican People's Party won 10 mayors, including the capital, and the mayors of three mayors are from other parties. One of them is the district of Seydikemer, which the Justice and Development Party has won. There's a world-famous Sakicent in Seydikemer County, a natural site. Right after the 30 March elections, Saklikent was handed over to the AKP's mayor, but in the places where the opposition parties won the mayoral presidency, they were all immediately handed over to AKP supporters. A company created by the State Special Administration called MUCEV has given the non-established company the beach of Iztuzu. Look, mind you, the company hasn't even started yet, it's two days after its establishment, so two days after that tender-free delivery. The Ministry of Environment has a tender obligation, and it's not even paid off. There's a precautionary measure to be carried out today, and there's an action there. I'd like to address the State Department of Environment and Urbanization officials here: Don't let his legacy be pursued by a company that was founded later, a private, 70 percent British company. Either let MUCEV run this place or let Metinca run the mayor's office. We ask this in particular, as the Muglas. Otherwise, our actions will continue there. Environmental organizations... there's no need to be stubborn. From now on, private company can't get in there, easy and difficult. At this point, I look for understanding, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0043par0368	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0044par0372	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the draft of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 616 rows. I salute the General Assembly. With the bill, the prison's external security is being taken from the Ministry of Interior, the Gendarme General Command, and given to the Ministry of Justice as it is at Homeland Security, foreign security and intervention; the duties of these units, weapons and conditions of force, co-operation with other institutions, training, and autonomy rights of prison personnel. Dear lawmakers, of course, it is necessary for prisons to ensure the safety of prisoners and prisoners in a qualified manner, and that security should be carried out mainly by civilian and expert personnel, emancipating the concept of security from the shadow of human dignity and the reference of universal law and practices. Sadly, however, when the draft text is examined, there is no such thing as the safety of prisoners, the approach to prisoners with the right attitude and practices of human honor. The bill has made a security approach feel strongly, but so far there have been no regulations in prisons to prevent illegal practices carried out by domestic security personnel who are already in charge of the Ministry of Justice for prisoners and prisoners. Therefore, the real problem with prisons is the violations of the rights of security methods, rather than who will protect the outside of prisons, and the fact that the security personnel involved in these rights violations are not effectively tried, they are not punished, and they are given a bonus for new rights violations. Dear lawmakers, with the bill and the full transfer of the security of prisons to the Ministry of Justice, there are about 30,000 new staff violations, which have no clear framework on what units to shift from or prevent right violations. The fact that recruitment will be carried out according to written tests and interview methods will further pave the way for co-optional staffing, which the EC PARTI government has made a method in many state agencies. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has plenty of problems to solve concerning prisons and prisoners. I'm going to continue my conversation by referring to these problems. In 2014, prisons continued to be areas where human rights violations were intense. In Turkey, imprisonment has been made a very common method of execution. As of November 2014, there are 155,853 people in prisons. It has been revealed that some of the prisoners were imprisoned, and 22.635 have been convicted. That number was 140,710 in 2013, and 59,430 was when the AK PARTI came to power. The number of prisoners in prisons is 1,984. The number was 1,880 in 2013. Mr. President, in the first 11 months of 2014, at least 38 people were killed in prisons for suicide, torture and abuse, accident, neglect, disease, fighting among prisoners and so on. Yaşar Dere, Celal Kılıçaslan, Celal Binici, Şehmus Yetek, Ali Çakcı, Seyithan Taşkıran, Modern Aktepe, Aram Akım Akım, Irfan Eskibag, Ramazan Özalp, Osman Akan, Nihat Bektaş and Muzaffer Seyhan Kınacı have lost their lives. The increase in capacity in new prisons opened during the EC PARTY has revealed that Turkey is equipped with iron bars. Dear lawmakers, one of the biggest problems in prisons is the exploitation of the labor of prisoners for very cheap wages. Incarcerations are run by cheap labor force logic in the production facilities established by private companies. Private companies that have built a production facility within prisons create a huge exploitation order with $7 they pay prisoners for their daily shifts. It is unclear how the Ministry of Justice is allowed to go so far under the fee set for 2012 as $20 a day. Dear lawmakers, state has to take legal, administrative, judicial or any other measures to prevent torture. Torture and abuse have been banned from the United Nations Convention on Torture, and the signatories of the entity have obliged states to carry out torture crimes in their own legislation. Human rights violations in prisons are only newsworthy if they are too intense or if they result in death. This means normalization and acceptance of systematic abuse in prisons. The main reason that abuse is in this dimension in Turkey is that there is a very serious culture of punishment that is incompatible with the absolute nature of the torture ban. The primary factor in the strengthening and spreading of this culture is the mentality and approach of political authorities, in other words, the state policy of punishment. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there has also been a significant increase in torture and abuse of juvenile prisoners, especially in recent prisons. Above all, the general conditions of prisons, housing, air conditioning, hygiene, health care, communication and so on, and the fact that the prison's capacity is close to 100 per cent of the capacity of prisons, has a mass torture effect on all prisoners and inmates. In particular, however, naked searches during the entry into the prison have been carried out, spongy room practices, and torture and abuse practices in prisons without cameras, search and inspections in prisons for lawyers and family meetings and arrivals in hospitals or isolation prisons. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, arrested and convicted individuals are experiencing numerous health problems. Problems such as ventilation, heating, humidity, hygiene, hygiene, nutrition, not being able to exercise, not being able to benefit from sunlight directly affect the health of individuals who have to live in this environment. In the long run, a number of chronic diseases arise due to exposure to the same unhealthy environment and cause some prisoners or prisoners to die or lose their health. When you think of these chronic diseases, you think of the first cancer group, chronic diseases. Currently, there are around 200 heavily ill prisoners in prisons, including many cancer patients. Dear lawmakers, despite the fact that prisoners are not able to reach regular and adequate treatment, diagnosis, control opportunities, they have very little access to the doctor. Many prisons, where the number of prisoners is hundreds, even 2,000, do not have regular doctors. Aside from the fact that working doctors are not experts, since family medicine has been introduced to prisons, doctors have been in prisons two or three times a week, one day at a time, and in that limited time, disease is not possible to diagnose or treat. Prisoners whose condition is heavy and unable to treat in prison infirmary are unable to transfer themselves to long-term related health care institutions. Even if the transport decisions are issued, it is not possible to get to the hospital because of lack of vehicles or personnel this time. If the hospitals are reached, they are sent back to prison by the intervention of the gendarme, the constraint of the handcuffed examination, the busyness of hospitals, or sometimes the lack of medical ethics by physicians, and the diagnosis and treatments are not done at all or without adequate examination. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we need to focus on the shortcomings, errors, and problems of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures, based on judicial bodies. This Execution Act, which took effect in 2005, was prepared with an understanding that it did not humanize prisoners, but imposes authority and rules, not the right to live, but the security issue. The execution of the prison sentence may be suspended until the execution of the prisoner, who was deemed to be a danger to public safety and unable to maintain his life alone in the conditions of the penal institution due to a severe illness or disability in Article 16 (which carries the title). One important problem is that the Forensic Medical Association remains a formal expert in its decisions, which are unable to act objectively due to its current institutional structure and its commitment to political power. Dear lawmakers, another problem is that the prosecutors of execution are seriously ill, and they are asking the county police commander or anti-terrorism department about the prisoners who have reports that they should be released by the Forensic Medicine Agency, whether they should pose a threat to public safety by looking at the execution file, not in their own way, but in the transfer of authority, to question the prisoners as a second expert. Due to the current structure of the Coroner's Office, reports are not being filed that they should be evacuated, even for cancer patients who are unable to be treated in prison or have severe health problems. Another problem, however, is that despite the entire negative nature of the Forensic Medical Association, the conditions of not being a danger to public safety, along with Law 6411 in 2013, are the same problem that he reported to the prisoners that the punishment must be postponed. Patient prisoners who are unable to survive alone in conditions of criminal execution due to a severe illness or disability, as the new law seeks, are being investigated and prevented from being released on the grounds of safety. Dear lawmakers, by order of the General Directorate of Justice Department of Punishment and Appeals in November 2014, banning the removal of continuous broadcasts in prisons by mail or direct visitors. For example, the detention institutions of Tekirdağ F Type Prison have been cited as a basis for providing security and order for prisoners in criminal execution institutions, as well as for not being taken into the execution institutions of any publications, brochures, magazines, newspapers, and so on, such as which have not been previously paid or sent for free by prisoners, not being taken into the execution institutions of the institution, and not being held in visiting areas and books sent for free. Dear MPs, number 5275. According to Article 62 of the Law, the prisoner has the right to benefit by paying for continuous and indefinitely broadcasts, provided he is not banned by the courts. The requirement for access to the affordable is that political prisoners and prisoners with limited financial resources, mostly children of poor families, are completely prevented from accessing opposition publications. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs continue to be a bleeding wound in the matter of juvenile prisoners. It is understood from their applications to human rights organizations for children in prisons who have been unable to lift the psychology of prisons, who attempted suicide by self-inflicted suicide because of serious obstructions. Scientific research from various disciplines often reveals that punishment and closing in private have no preventing or educational effects on children. Thus, children's prisons, an inhuman practice, must be removed and shut down. As of 2014, 410 children have been taken into custody and 68 children have been arrested as a result of the intervention of law enforcement forces in meetings and demonstrations. On the basis of the state's detention authority, there is a responsibility to care, care, and protection for individuals whom the state has placed in prison or in place of any eclipse. This responsibility also represents an obligation. When it comes to children, the concept of responsibility becomes much more detailed and much more sensitive. It is a legal obligation for state officials to protect and protect children within the framework of national and international regulations and rules that the state has separated them from their family and kept them thousands of miles away from their homes. In prisons, however, every day is violated by practices that are incompatible with human honor for juvenile prisoners, harassment, rape, and childhood. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, for example, were found to have been tortured by guards in Sincan Youth and Juvenile Prison on January 2, 2014. A gas bomb has been thrown into the cells of 12 children held in Ankara's Sincan Youth and Children's Prison and has been sprayed with water and struck by guards on January 2, 2014, and 4 of the 8 children's prisoners have been transferred to İstanbul Maltepe Children's Prison, and 4 of them to İzmir Şakran Children's Prison. It also turns out that children were beaten twice before being exiled. The four children brought to Maltepe Children's Prison were also found to have been imposed on naked search and then placed in single cells. Dear lawmakers, contracts on children who have been especially deprived of their freedom are clearly violated in our country. Prisons are organized from architecture to security, health care to family visits, male prisoners based on the population, psychosocial service in prisons, guards are insensitive to women's needs. The hardening of the criminal legal system has led to a significant increase in the number of women imprisoned for minor crimes. In prison systems, the lack of female population compared to male population causes the neglect of the gender-specific needs of the female population. Women get their share of these problems, and in addition, they continue to have women's problems. Dear lawmakers, with a type F prison, you should usually abandon isolation practices. Patient prisoners must be released immediately or postponed until the executions of their sentences are restored to health. The investigation should be launched due to torture and abuse of the responsible, and the investigations of public officials must be dismissed immediately until the investigation is concluded. The chain, banned by international standards, should be prevented from using restraint tools such as iron, and should not be used for punishment. The examinations of prisoners, especially in torture claims, must be conducted in a comprehensive manner using standard forensic examination form under the Istanbul Protocol. Prison physicians and medical staff must receive training in the Istanbul Protocol. Medical care provided at the prison must be equated with opportunities outside the prison. Disciplinary acts of crime and punishment and open violations of the law due to practice must be resolved immediately. Applications and complaints must be provided immediately and without any restrictions. Forensic and administrative mechanisms should conduct an active investigation into applications and complaints. Lawyers and correspondence must be kept private. Contacts with official institutions and lawyers must be prevented from being audited. The search procedure itself should not be demeaning to those exposed to search during the search and location. An effective administrative and judicial audit should be provided regarding the prison regime, physical conditions and treatments; prisons must be made open to the control of independent NGOs. An independent national control mechanism must be established in accordance with the Law-Selected Protocol on Torture and other Cruelties, Extrahumanity or Dispute of Honor or Avoidance of Punishment. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0045par0399	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Konya MP Faruk Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0046par0403	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act bill. I salute the grand jury. On this occasion, I ask God's grace on our martyrs who were subjected to a terrorist attack yesterday and in the days before. In the same way, I pray for the mercy of all our victims of terror, the Lord God, and for all our veterans who are victims of terror, patience and healing. Dear MPs, there are two sides to this when we call it punishment and execution institutions. On the first face, they are those who are also described as the prisoner of fate, who are in prison and who are in prison under the name of the condemned. They have very serious problems. It's like abuse, bad management, child abuse, not being able to reach healthy food, not having a healthy place to sleep, not having a place to live. It's the Ministry of Justice's job to collect them, collect them, and allow prisoners to do their time in prison in accordance with human circumstances. However, the prisons have turned into bombs that have exploded in our lifetime. In 2002, the number of prisoners and prisoners with 52 thousand increased to 152,000 during the rule period of the 13-year AKP (AKP) in 2014. It's a very grave situation compared to our population. This points to something, which means Turkey has become a criminal paradise. New crimes have come to light. New crimes, including extortion, smuggling, PKK terrorist organization and other terrorist organizations, human trafficking, prostitution, have emerged. There is another dimension to this: there are reasons to increase the tendency to commit crimes, such as economic and social balances, people being condemned to hunger, poverty. For these reasons, the AKP has failed in its fight. The result of his failure to succeed is that the punishment we're meeting here today is related to security measures in the execution institutions. I said it was like a exploding bomb, prisons. In fact, there have been riots in Eskişehir, Manisa, Burhaniye, Karaman, Bafra, Mardin, Urbana, Elazığ, Kandira, Keles, Çorum, Mush, and Van prisons. The prisoners risked their own lives, burned their blankets, their beds, and expressed their dissatisfaction with the environment they were in, and screamed. It is the Ministry of Justice's duty to find a cure for this cry, because it is the government's responsibility to protect the safety of the prisoner, who is so disturbed by his environment that he will risk his own life, and that guarantee is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Honorable MPs, the second face of prisons are death guards who have been sentenced to an officer such as the prisoner in prison. Execution officers, prison wardens and administrators are so uncomfortable with the environment that the conditions dictate to them that they become a psychological and sociological problem. So when an employee who has to spend at least 12 hours a day in prison gets out of prison and goes into normal life, psychological behavior disorders arise. It's possible to get rid of it. For him, the only way he can provide good service to prisoners and prisoners in prisons is by creating opportunities for execution guards to serve under good circumstances. So the expansion of their economic and social positions must be in accordance with the value of the task they have received. Therefore, execution guards expect to be included in the safety services class. In a position to provide internal and external security with the bill now brought in, death guard officers wish to be identified and treated as their colleagues in the security-related security class within the scope of this concept. They demand that the additional indicators be equal to the officers of the institutions where they serve equally. Execution guards are willing to take advantage of the wear-down compensation. We all know that he took advantage of the police, the police, and the armed forces and other law enforcement officers' severance pay by a quarter. Since the guards of the execution did a job as risky as they did, they have every right to take advantage of that compensation. On the other hand, death guards are demanding that the rate of justice be raised. It has been a disappointment to the Justice Commission to reduce the amount of compensation raised in the lower commission, which has been really accepted, and they are demanding that this disappointment be met. As the National Movement Party, based on the figures adopted by the subcommittee, we will request a motion to correct the situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I said the prisons have two faces. Prisoners and prisoners on the first face, the prisoners of fate, the officers of the execution guard on the second face, the wardens and the staff of the prison. And then there's the interface, and then there's the interface. Business is a very important and very serious system of execution. In their workplaces, it is necessary for those in prison to make good use of their time, for those in prison who do not have a profession to provide knowledge and skills, to contribute to production, to earn economic income while contributing to production in prison, and to be placed in a job that suits the knowledge and experience they received after the execution of the sentence, but I would like to point out that the workplace as an interface has not been able to carry out this task. Another problem has been closed in prisons in small districts during the AKP government. It has suffered two losses: one, economic and social activities in that district have been weakened; two, two, convicted and forced to spend additional time in an additional prison, to go to prison where the prisoner is held, because the spouse, friend, relative and relatives of those living in that district were removed from the county. This is a serious problem, which needs to be resolved. Members of parliament, the next bill aims to address a problem that is in prisons under the name of domestic security and foreign security -- which we at times criticise -- and the National Movement Party agrees that the solution must be found. So the problem is that the gendarmes follow the prison's external security, the officers of the execution guard and the prison administration, and the republic's prosecutor is using his initiatives for internal security and foreign security. And I want to say that this system that we're complaining about is actually due to a balance and control mechanism, which is a positive benefit. So the gendarme is subject to a separate unit, which operates as a means of balancing and overseeing the illegal work and procedures of those who go in and out while controlling the external security. Of course, prison personnel and death guard officers inside are also performing a task by balancing and overseeing the conduct of the gendarme. Now, this system is being removed, two units are being formed in the name of internal security and external security, bringing Justice Department units and Republican prosecutors to the top of it. The state's attorney is hereby authorized to decide whether to intervene, whether to enter the prison armed or armed, to decide on the extent of the intervention, to use weapons. That's wrong. That's wrong, because in the course of intervention, there's always going to be a loss of life and property. Any damage to life and property will be a matter of trial. As the investigator, the state's attorney will make the beginning of the trial. Can the D.A. be impartial as the person who, by his own command, investigates a business that was done within his own knowledge? Can he bring the real perpetrators to justice objectively? No. What we're getting from here is that powers and powers are gathering in the AKP's power, not just here, but here, as everywhere else. It's the wrong business. The balance and control mechanism must be created. Here the republic's prosecutor must be given the authority or the authority to decide the operation by his initiative from the republic's prosecutor, given directly to the prison's internal and external security units. This should also be audited and set up such a balance and control mechanism that not every prison should be subject to the will of the President of the Justice Commission. If subject to the will of the Justice Commission, the President of the Justice Commission, of course, is on duty with the republic's Attorney General, the Chief Justice Minister of the Republic. Therefore, the prison monitoring commissions to regulate, balance, control, control the Minister of Justice's affairs become commissions set up outside the Minister of Justice's initiative, which is not in line for the cause of the establishment. Instead, the representatives of political parties, which continue to exist as a government and are the essential element of democracy, must, of course, be present as a member of these boards, so that each party can assess the situation in the prisons for itself, which includes all areas of the district. My dear friends, this is how we look at the law. We have the articles we object to, and we'll make our motions. I hope it's a blessing. In this part of my speech... We were delighted and delighted with a very good and very good news that the Prime Minister announced yesterday. The Prime Minister has announced that he will now bring up the anti-corruption package. In the coming days, I hope he doesn't go off in the dark winter, or we'll come to this coven and we'll talk here. I congratulate the Prime Minister here. Turkey really needs a package for the fight against corruption. Where to start this package, I recommend the closest person. If he asks us where to start, we will answer, but the closest person to him is Numan Surviv; he knows everything before he goes to the AKP; he declared that you came as Aaron, you became Karun. Let him ask the AKP Vice President what he means, and let them clean up their intestines, according to the answer he will get from the AKP Vice President. My dear friends, within this framework, there has been a process in which all those who have spoken and lied and spoke ill of such a decision by the AKP, which we met yesterday and by the Commission of Investigations on Monday. All the people of the AKP have said: "The Commission has decided, and the matter is closed." People have already decided, it's over. Well, if so, I'd like to say a few words about how this Commission continued its operation. My dear friends, this Commission was established on May 5th, it was not employed for sixty-four days because it did not give in to AKP members. On July 7th, he handed over a member of the AKP. The draw will be drawn, two days before the draw, we've all heard in the lobby, I've heard in person that Mr. Hakkı will be the President of the Commission. The first name of Mr. Villageman was mentioned as drawing lots here, and we were surprised. I also say that the surprises will continue. He was elected president, he didn't have a meeting the day he was elected, so they didn't do a job or anything, and he fell apart. But the Commissioner did a job, sent all the files back to where they came from, to the D.A.'s office. Why? He didn't have a knee compass. My dear friends, according to this Constitution, this Commission shall exercise all authority of the Council of Ministers. He can find his officer, his professor, and have them do it, if he wants to. No, he needs to go to the D.A.'s office. Why? Because there are no former prosecutors at the D.A.'s office. They were thrown out because they were parallel, the pledges were brought in; they need to see the files. They've seen the file for fifty-four days. Fifty-four days a series of compasses? Fifty-four days, something happened. If the numbers in the press are correct, the number of folders that have come to Parliament has been sent to 64, the Parliament Speaker has sent its number down to 32 or 33. This came to Parliament, and this Parliament transferred it to this Commission, sent the Commissioner to the prosecution, and 33 files fell to 11 folders with a series of compasses. There were 10 meetings, we don't know what they're doing, 10 meetings, secret. The confidentiality decision is a different freak, but after the secrecy decision, another freak job was done. The Commissioner has imposed a gag order without informing the members of the Commission; both a secret and a gag order. Then he came, and they gathered for ten days. In ten days, I will become righteous. The men say, "It is not called; I will bear witness." He says, "I will not be called." You may as well not give testimony to the people who are called. They leave without a statement. You may or may not answer it to the ministers. They say it's in your discretion. They say it's a free lawyer's job, and that's how 10 meetings are held. It is, but on December 22nd -- please let my AKP members hear it too -- this Commission is at 14 p.m. I'll make up my mind by voting at 00. He says. It's 14 o'clock on December 22nd. It's coming to 00, the commission isn't meeting, it's 15 o'clock. It's been postponed to 00. It says. It is 3:00 p.m., and the commission is not meeting, and it has been postponed to 15.30 p.m. It's almost 3:30, the commission is not meeting. It's 18 o'clock. It's been postponed to 00. It says. It's 18 o'clock. It comes to 00, the Commission does not meet again, to January 5, 2015, a year later. Here, on January 5, 2015, nine of the AKP's MPs say no, the other opposition MPs say yes. That's what the Commission in Congress, established by the will of the nation, decides, but there are those behind the curtain. He who is behind the curtain: On the day the commission gathers and declares it will decide, the Prime Minister will go to Macedonia. He had said earlier: "Even if he were my brother, I will cut off the arm of the corrupter. " I mean, he had expressed a very uncomfortable word, and his intention was to send the files from the Supreme Court to the Supreme Court and send the ministers to the Supreme Court. But we've been told by the press that the investigating ministers are going to the President, and if we go to the Supreme Court, Bilal will come after us. Here, the conflict and disagreement between the two authorities is coming to the President of the Commission as phone instructions from the press again. Just as we're surprised at its establishment, just as we're surprised at how it works, so are the Commissioner and members of the Commission this time. Which ears will they believe, from the President or from the Prime Minister? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the end, the Prime Minister's fortress is not taken, and it is decided by instructions from the President. So Mr. Davutoglu says that instead of the arm that he is going to cut off, his voice is gone, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0047par0429	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of him, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0048par0434	Mr. President, I'd like to express my views on the proposed bill of law. From the day the Justice and Development Party came to power, a constant dispute with the judiciary has been fought with the judiciary. The judiciary was praised when it made decisions in line with its own expectations, but when it made decisions contrary to its own expectations, it was ground to the ground by the Prime Minister, by the AKP's officials, and by the concerned ministers. Presidents of political parties cannot replace judges; media, newspapers, televisions, writers cannot replace judges, prosecutors. He jumped up and down in the judicial decisions that touched the Justice and Development Party, but in the decisions that fit his expectations, he also did his duty. Now the judge is doing his job, and we're doing our job as an executive. He says that this decision was made in 14/2/2013 about the February 28 coup and the investigation against the generals at the time, about his trial. Again, Mr. Prime Minister -- this time in the lost trillion case -- we want to serve Turkey -- I mean, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't mean Davutoglu, because he was Prime Minister -- but we're being prevented by judicial decisions. And Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "Who's going to supervise if he makes a wrong decision?" E, what about the presidents of the political party? Again, who will oppose the then Prime Minister, HSYK? If I had the authority, I'd judge HSYK. Again, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan then says that if he does not do his duty as judge, he commits constitutional crime. Again, regarding Mr. Haberal's case, the Prime Minister says, look, then: this decision is ideological. It's a legal scandal to intimidate, intimidate, intimidate, intimidate our judges and prosecutors with an ideological decision. The law must no doubt be applied equally to all. The law against a plain citizen and the law against the rich and the strong cannot be different. Again, valued MPs, now, when Recep Tayyip Erdogan became Prime Minister, look, this raises the constitutional referendum. We have started the process of changing the closed circuit operation under the control of a small group from the ideological sinkhole, from the caste system, with a participating understanding, he says. The change of the Constitutional Court paves the way for many things, and the change of the HSYK paves the way for many things. Let's put down the elephant with the phones. The saying process ends. Recep Tayyip Erdogan says. Again, with the September 12th referendum, the judiciary was independent and guaranteed. The Prime Minister is praising the September 12th referendum at that time. We democratized the structure of the HSYK, and the judiciary became independent and neutral, and the rule of law was dominated, not the law of the superior, he says. When does he say it? After the Constitution referendum on September 12, 2010. However, valuable lawmakers continue again, the September 12, 2010 public vote is a province for the judiciary. The people touched the judgment. The judgment is no more than a band's backyard, a faction, a narrow understanding, a nation's judgment, he says. When? That's what 31/1/2012 says. So, it means that you earlier, with the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, saved the judiciary from a faction, made it a judgment of the nation, but you continued, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said at the time that those who resisted my change lost all the praises of the structure of that day's HSYK, that those who did not want to raise the standard of democracy, that were neutral and independent, that the people's judgment was opposed to a judgment that was only under the rule of law, said that they had lost the court. So that judgment, as you call it, is no longer the backyard of the militia, but it is the judgment of the nation, according to you, that you praised it. Now, what did Bekir Bozdağ say on December 21, 2013? ▪ A slander campaign under the name corruption and political engineering is a dirty operation. • Who is doing this? The judgment of your nation is what you call judgment. Well, if my brother's making judgments, why do you object? Let him do it. Now, dear lawmakers, again, Mr. Bulent Arinc praises the referendum this time. Now, Mr. Prime Minister at the time says that if he makes state laws and imposes these laws on his nation, there will be persecution, not law. Here you are, making laws, forcing laws on the nation. While you're interfering with the judiciary with the majority of parliament, you're actually doing the will of the nation. Now, of course, again, one word the President says is that he's even involved in some dirty, unsolved murders. Well, explain it to me, brother, if you can see it. If these are dirty, unsolved murders, why don't you explain what you saw? You'll hear more amazing things, he says. We're used to those words. In the cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, after the massacre of Danıştay, then Minister of Justice Mehmet Ali Şahin had also said, "What more will you see?" Abdullah Gül said, "There will be great things." Dear MPs, now, Mr. President, today's President says he will find justice in the face of those who take his business from the underworld. Now, I speak as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, not as President. The prosecutors you once went to Istanbul and picked up in your car, who you declared heroic prosecutors, have now investigated this claim. And in the end, I share an exemplary understanding of the President of a legal state that the president shouldn't have said, he says: 17th, 25th December, the nation has already judged March 30th and August 10th. Guys, people have already tried December 17, 25 in the March 30th and August 10th elections. If it means that this nation voted for the Justice and Development Party or Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the presidential election, its fellow businessmen, ministers of Justice and Development Party, lawmakers, were acquitted and they were tried, 20 million people who voted for the Justice and Development Party should not be investigated today, as well. Yeah, elections don't clear people. So, Parliament has no judicial action, Parliament makes laws, laws for the nation, and justice acts in the name of the nation, and judgment is the nation's. So, you steal, rape, go to the elections, our party got the vote. Now, let me commit all sorts of crimes, and the Republican People's Party gets the election. My dear, the nation has cleared us, they have judged us. Look, the esteemed MPs, Ali Canani, Cengiz Altınkaya, Cumhur Ersümer, Sun Taner, Hilmi İşgüzar, Husamettin Özkan, Koray Aydın, Muktar Kadarcıoğlu, Mesut Yılmaz, Recep Önal, Sefa Giray, Suat Hayri Ürgbulu, Tuncay Mataracı, Yasar Topcu, Zeki Çakan, İhsan Eryavuz, İsmail Özdağlar, Şerafettin Evo; they are all on trial in the Supreme Divan. When any of them left, we were struck. He's the Supreme Court, who wasn't appointed by them. This Constitutional Court was formed by the law you passed, and the members of this were all appointed by Abdullah Gul during your time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He was elected in this parliament with AKP MPs, even the representative sent by those bars. You're afraid of the men you choose, the men you appoint. This is a concrete indication of how powerful the claim that you committed this crime is in society. There's only one thing to do. Stop with the footwork like that. He's the President of the Investigative Commission. He's an honest lawyer. I trust his integrity to the fullest. I trust his jurisprudence. Don't push that person, guys. The Investigation Commission will make such a decision on foot play, it's been cleared. They weren't acquitted, they weren't cleared in front of history. Friends of the AKP, please, let them go, let them be judged in the Supreme Court, and at least let them be saved by Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0049par0449	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0050par0453	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised to express my views on the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. Each of our citizens in the penal institutions is a trust of their families, loved ones, to our state. We are responsible for their safety, their every need, their care, as a state. We don't look at these when we're serving them, no matter what the criminal charges against our people in prisons are, no matter what the court's rulings on them. And we shouldn't, because we see them as human beings, we see them as relics, we try to look at them the way they look at the trust. Of course, there are many needs. It may not be possible to fulfill all of this in the way it is desired. What needs to be done within the terms of prison is carefully observed in the most accurate, quickest form of our laws. As we look at the number of prisoners and prisoners currently in the prisons of the Republic of Turkey, there are currently 125,153 convicted women, 459 (females), 11,781 (females), 22,503 (females), and a total of 159,437 prisoners and prisoners in prisons today. Of course, so many of our people are being served in prisons, in prisons, in execution institutions, as well as by staff assigned by the General Command of the Gendarme, which provides foreign security. They have successfully carried out this extremely important mission so far. Well, why did it have to be the law? Did such a law have to be made recently? No, when you look at it, it's a subject of newspaper reports where in 1968 there will be arrangements for the internal and external security of prisons to be managed by one hand, and there are studies at that time. However, for different reasons so far, this has not been done, unfortunately. In the 2008s, the issue had come up before, but it was not in the end. In 2013, the latest bill sent back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted by the Justice Commission and is now in your presence. Now we're all making an important change together. From now on, the external security of the prisons and the internal security of the prisons will be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Our General Directorate of Punishment and Investigation will take care of all the dimensions of this mission. So far, foreign security has been different, domestic security different practices have caused different problems, causing double-headedness. On the way to the gate, a separate search of external security, a separate search of Homeland Security when you enter, repeated operations in several administrative procedures, time for our citizens, and many casualties. On the other hand, any prisoner and prisoner from the prison had serious coordination problems in their transport to the hospital or elsewhere, and when asked, there was no opportunity for immediate action. Because you're making a plan, and there's someone else out there who can carry out that plan, and he's got a plan. There were problems when they didn't fit. So with this merger of external and domestic security, the authority will be singled out, the administration will be singled out, all administrative jobs will be singled out, the resilience will be eliminated, all problems with the hospital and transfers, all problems with the transports will be eliminated, and the internal and external security of the prisons will be managed by one hand. There should be no doubt that we will see many benefits in applying it. We also carried out important work on prisons. So far, we've closed many prisons in Turkey. We've already closed down 257 criminal execution agencies on the grounds that the conditions are not good. We plan to close another 142 penal institutions by the end of 2017. I would also like to present to you that we have made serious investments as the Ministry in order to improve the conditions there, to ensure a life that will protect the honor of our people there. Partial improvements are also made in the financial situation of those who serve in criminal execution institutions. In fact, those who do so deserve much more, and if we had the resources to do so, we wouldn't be unjust if we had given more than we had anticipated here, because our officers here carry out a truly important task, a great task. We're doing a partial improvement on them, even if it's part of the bill. It's very important that there's an actual service increase related to the guards of the execution. If our parliament agrees, it will be legalized by this bill and the staff serving under difficult circumstances will benefit from it. This also represents another important change. When it comes to criminal execution agencies, the truth is, I also benefit from calling our nation from here: all the people who are in there are human beings, no matter what their crime is, in the first place. Once they've served their time, it's the most important thing that all of us out there have the opportunity to help them. If people whose sentence has been completed are unable to work in any private or public capacity after being released, they are helpless if they are shut on doors. He's going somewhere, he's got merit, he's applying, he's getting a job, but when his criminal record comes out, it's over, and the doors are shut in his face. Outside the prisons, the punishment becomes an open prison for our executed people. We shouldn't let that happen. It is very important that every person who has been executed in prisons, the owners of our businesses, each of our people, provide bread and jobs, open their doors to them. We definitely need to end the wrong, biased, evil practices that will lead them back to crime, lead them to despair, that will not allow him to find a right way for himself. I call on all business owners, all of our people out of prison, and I say, please, let's make sure that we're all together in a way that allows our position, our actions, our community, our people, and a path that leads to its path through the new era. Our opposition parties also supported this bill, contributed with their views on the Commission, and continued their contribution to the General Assembly. I hereby thank the valued MPs of our opposition parties and the valued lawmakers of our ruling group separately. I wish the law to be good and good luck, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0051par0465	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ. Special on behalf of Isparta MP Recep. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0052par0469	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, rank 616. As it is known, the execution of sentences is defined as carrying out a binding sentence and security measures given by the criminal courts in exchange for the crime. The main purpose of the execution system is to protect society and ensure that people whose crimes are incompatible with social life and who have been convicted by the judicial bodies will be restored to society by subjecting them to a proper healing regime. In order to achieve this goal, there is a need to meet the need for qualified personnel, provide proper conditions, and engage in various activities in institutions. The achievement of execution institutions depends primarily on providing internal and external security. Maintaining internal and external security of institutions is an activity that complements each other, and it is imperative that the authority and responsibility for this task be given to an authority and that the work be conducted in one hand and that efficiency and efficiency can be provided in the ministry. In practice, domestic security services in closed criminal execution institutions are performed by the Ministry of Justice and foreign security services by the Ministry of Interior General Command. It is also carried out by the General Command of the gendarmes, such as the transport, transport, preparedness of the prisoners, or hospital protection of the prisoners. The duty of doing external protection of criminal execution institutions was granted to the gendarmes temporarily until the Ministry of Justice established a containment agency, dated 1/12/1937 and carried out by the Council of Ministers' decision 7756. The implementation of criminal execution institutions by internal and external security services by staff members of different ministries can lead to two heads in institutions, different interpretation of legislation, repeated procedures, and unnecessary correspondence, such as the search for prisoners and visitors in two separate locations, and co-ordination problems in carrying out services such as transfers and transfers. It's also a pleasure to have this bill on our agenda to clean up all these setbacks, single-handedly collect them, and to have a right to the immediate benefit of their retirement by improving our fellow correctional officers in criminal execution institutions, who are in real difficulty at some point -- a fiscal service increase. I offer all the prisoners, the prisoners, the workers there, the people at the prison, the people at the prison, the people at the prison, the people at the prison, the people at the prison, the people at the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison, the people who are in the prison.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0053par0476	Thank you, Mr. Special. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. I've been asking questions for 20 minutes. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0054par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, these correctional guards have demands of wear and tear. Is there any study in this law on the fulfillment of this request, and will this be resolved along with this law? Because even though they work as hard as cops and other military personnel, they don't have any wear and tear right now. Second: This Parliamentary Investigation Commission talks about studies related to the destruction of some evidence. If this evidence is destroyed, how will there be an investigation in the re-investigation tomorrow? Will the Department of Justice stand by to commit such a crime? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0055par0484	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0056par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. How many prisoners are currently in prison for drug-related drug abuse? That's what I want to know. My second question: how many prosecutors and judges were appointed in 2014, and why were the prosecutors and judges suspended? That's what we want to know. In other words, how many prisoners and inmates are assigned to doctors and nurses in prison? How do ambulance systems run in prisons? How many ambulances are there in our prisons? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0057par0491	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0058par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we would like to ask that the government be more impartial about Iztuzu. You know, the AKP clearly attracts and discriminates the locations of municipalities he can't afford. Mudla's at the beginning of these provinces. Many municipalities were given to Seydikemer, who had won from CHP, while the property was smuggled from CHP in the closing of the province's private administration. Thus, Sakıkent was given to the AKP municipality. As of 28 May 2014, the coast of Iztuzu was given to the MUCEV company, which was established under protocol with the Service Foundation for Mughla and Turkey's Environmental Protection Foundation. Established overnight, the MUCEV was tendered to a company called the British Partner (DALCHEV) at $8 million in legal cost. Despite the decision to stop the execution of you, there was a midnight walk-in on the beach with a business machine...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0057par0496	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0059par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. Number 11 of the 20th. The joke added to Article 86 of Law No. 5275 with the lubendi is stated that the contents of the meetings with the inmates in prisons can be recorded. Isn't this going to be used as a pressure on the prisoners, Mr. Secretary? Is it going to be a serious problem because the lawyer talks aren't kept apart? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0060par0501	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0061par0503	Yes, there was no regulation on the bill when the bill for the destruction of the execution officers serving in the penal execution institutions was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the Justice Commission referred the talks of the bill to the subcommittee. During subcommittee talks, the loss share was put into the bill. At the moment, the bill has regulations on its share of wear and tear, and the death guard will then take advantage of its share of wear and tear. This is the delivery of a right; they're doing a very difficult task, and a necessary arrangement for them has been made within it. In other words, a question was asked about the Investigation Commission. Of course, the question about that would be to look at the law. I told our friends to take a look at the law. Article 135 of the Penal Code is the title of communication, Rest and Recording. In his third joke, there is a statement that says: "There is no record of contact between the suspect or those who might be afraid to testify. In the event that this situation is understood, the records taken will be destroyed immediately. (Now, this is also a Constitutional decree.) The Constitution also states that those involved in the withdrawal of their testimony cannot be forced to testify against one another. Now, on the other hand, there's another issue here, which shouldn't actually be heard, but the machine doesn't actually have the ability to distinguish it from the technical listening. But then, when he realizes that, normally, the Republican prosecutors who do the investigation need to separate it immediately and destroy it with a report. In Turkey, people who have no interest in that investigation, for example, have been investigated, but have nothing to do with it, are being investigated, but the bride has nothing to do with it; all of the intimate information about them, unfortunately, because of this carelessness and violation of the law, has been known to everyone through the media, people have been worn out, stained. It's an important ingredient in protecting human dignity. Again, the fulfillment of decisions with Article 137/th article, the destruction of the content of communication is being arranged, and (3) it is stated in its statement (3) that if there is no room to prosecute the suspect during the implementation of the decision given under Article 145, or if the judge's approval of the same clause is not obtained according to the first clause, the application will be terminated immediately by the state's attorney. In this case, reports of detection or listening will be determined within ten days of being destroyed under the supervision of the state's attorney. The Investigation Commission serves as a judicial commission, conducts a judicial action on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, does so according to the Penal Code. If these conditions are set by the law, if the Commission has determined this, it is a crime to destroy the document related to it, to rule the law, not to destroy it. They'll identify it, and if they don't destroy it, it's criminally sanctioned. This is an arrangement that is fully directed to protect people, to protect the person's law. So this also came up about the ministers, but in other cases, it came up about a lot of our citizens. In fact, this is a very important legal arrangement, such regulations in other countries around the world. So I'd like to present to you that there is no legal possibility of a negative assessment here. About the drugs, Mr. Right said, the number of prisoners currently in drug execution institutions is 20,501; the number of prisoners is 7,179; the total number is 27,680. Seriously, a lot of our drug-related people are in prison. This also shows the abundance of those who created the results, however negative the consequences of the drugs. So, you know, our government has devised an action plan on drugs, and the services have been organised, and some steps have been taken. If you recall, in June, the penal clauses that regulate drug-related crimes were reconsidered and sentences were increased by an arrangement adopted by our Parliament. Within the internal security package currently discussed in the Interior Commission, the penalty for doing so is also increased in areas that are more than a metre away -- around schools, mosques, churches, synagogues -- if I think I'm wrong in the 200 meters, I might be wrong. Because in our schools, I'd like to express to our children, our people, that there was an arrangement to prevent this crime from happening, to prevent it from happening in other places that could easily be reached. Of course, I can't give you any accurate information about the judges and prosecutors who are currently appointed because it's a duty done by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. There's no one there right now, and we haven't been able to get any information right away. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you a written answer on this matter. Yeah, how many doctors are there in prison? Right now, all of our prisons have 11 doctors, four dentists, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and co-ordinated health care. Right now, physicians don't want to come to our place because of the negativity of their rights. So we cooperated with the Ministry of Health. Prisoners and prisoners currently in prisons benefit from the health care services of our Ministry of Health. 300 family physicians serve in this framework, as well as our hospitals and other facilities. We've seen prisoners and prisoners being treated in inappropriate environments in hospitals, and we've seen some negatives. That's why we're conducting a joint study with our Ministry of Health. A step has been taken to take care of it in every new hospital. In all the city hospitals, and in all the new hospitals that have been built, the departments that will serve prisoners and prisoners are presented to the same standard as the other sections, which are being done, we took a step towards that. We also have doctors in large prisons for immediate intervention. Right now, we're doing the most economic improvements in this bill to physicians, but this was done to bring it to a certain parallel with the Ministry of Health. We think it'll be encouraging, and then maybe this number will increase. We're running this together with the Health Department, and I want you to know that in particular. And, Mr. Nurettin, there's a question our congressman asked. Of course, I don't have a chance to know about it, you'll appreciate it. I'm not able to give you any accurate information about anything that's in Mugla, which is not related to my ministry, but I've been informed, and I'm going to pass it on to our concerned friend. Maybe they can contact you, and I'll share that with you when I know the right information. Mr. Gürkut Acar....the meetings of attorneys with their clients cannot be heard or recorded in any way. There is an arrangement in this law. In accordance with the provisions of the 2rd article of the Law on the Administration of Prisons and Investigation No. 1721, the prisoner's letters (e) in terms of the safety of the prison (e) which is under the rule that they will speak to the people who visit them and that their communications will be handled outside of them and that their communications will be controlled and the meetings of the prisoners are still on the record. This is not a new practice, this is being recorded under the law. However, Law 1721, which constitutes the basis of the application, is that if the law of security services is adopted, there will be no gap in the matter and there will be a need for further implementation to be added to Law number 5275 in Article 86 (9) as the meeting of the inmates in prison execution institutions as the third joke. If not, it's not the first time it's been passed on the law, and I'd like to bring it to your attention. Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0062par0516	We've got lawmakers in the system, we've got time. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0063par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in this bill, the prison guards are authorized to use force, use weapons. Perhaps the nature of the work may require that these be done in some major resistance, but this bill is incomplete in how to control them, if there are rights violations, if there are human rights violations, if there are disproportionate forces, how to control them and who to control them by. On the other hand, the monitoring boards may be able to perform a task, but the monitoring boards are subject to judicial justice commissions. Do you plan to make the monitoring boards a more independent structure in this regard? I'd like to know how you feel about the auditing of prisons in terms of human rights violations, in terms of prisoner rights and inmate rights.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0064par0521	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0065par0523	Mr. Secretary, do you intend to make a new arrangement for this supervised freedom? There's a lot of demand for this, and they've come to the conclusion that something like this is going to happen. Can you make it clear to the public on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0064par0525	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0066par0527	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: We've all known for a long time that both we and Turkey have been on the agenda of the public and that over 500 sick prisoners are currently in prison in prisons. In the talks we've had before, we have stated to Mr. Secretary that a law concerning this should be passed immediately, but no progress has been taken in this matter, a concrete step has been taken. Between 40 and 50 sick prisoners are now in a state where they can't survive their own lives alone, they're clawing at death. We're asking for a clear and concrete answer, Mr. Secretary, if any steps are to be taken in this matter. Will your Ministry take a clear and concrete step in the matter of patient prisoners, which is a very human and conscientious issue? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0067par0530	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0068par0532	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, there are regulations regarding the control of prisons. There are audits among the duties of the republic's prosecutors, which are held in their own special law. In addition, audits can be conducted by justice inspectors within the Ministry of Justice. In addition, there are controllers in the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships, which can be audited by them. Of course, when there's a situation like this, there's an arrangement here, there might be a need. Now that we've prepared a motion, that's what this is about. The security units there were able to use that direct authority. Now, after the opinion of the General Directorate of Punishment and Investigation is taken, a motion that will bring a control mechanism, such as the decision by the Attorney General, will be made here. That way, we'll have an arrangement that controls it. Of course, there are also human rights monitoring boards at the checkpoint, other external audits, audits under the European Union. There's a very transparent structure to oversee prisons. The Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Commission is also overseeing this issue. There's a subcommittee on the prison, and they're making visits. I mean, if we're missing at this point, we'll also see him, but we're not missing anything right now. Mr. Vural said, "Is there any study of increasing the probationary period?" There is no such study at this time, Mr. President. There's nothing like this: a year before his sentence is executed, a year before his parole, every convict can take advantage of this probationary release. When we do that, it turns out that when a person is sentenced to 18 months in prison, he only does one in-and-out without a day in or out, maybe ten or fifteen days until his condition is determined, then he has to leave for parole for less than a year. Now, when that happens, the person sentenced to 18 months must serve 12 months -- probation -- because then we have no way of putting any of the people who are sentenced to 18 months in prison. Now, when we increase it for another year, when it's two years, what does that mean? He won't be able to put any convicted felon in prison for three years. This, of course, reveals the lack of punishment for crimes, which, in particular, do not require too much punishment, such as a beating, or otherwise, as we call it in public. We have a problem with that.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0067par0534	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but I'll give you two more minutes. Here you go, keep explaining.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0068par0536	Mr. President, that's why we can't increase it. Otherwise, we hear complaints and demands here. However, I would like to express in particular that we have not been able to step forward on this issue because of such distress. But we're looking into the subject, over these things, again, if there's any other kind of appropriate formula. If there can be a proper formula, I'd like to put it in such a period, and if there are other formulas, if there are any other formulas, we'll find a formula that can eliminate in favor and inequity, we won't hesitate to bring it to you. Before I answer Mr. Buldan's question, I was just about to speak on all of it, but I forgot to give you my blessing on Mr. Murat Bozlak. First, I ask for God's mercy on Mr. Bozlak. My condolences to his grieving family, his loved ones, the HDP group, our Assembly. May his place be in heaven. Of course, it's a human matter about patients, prisoners, and prisoners, and we're looking at it in the same context. We've got work to do, we'll take a step forward. Right now...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0069par0539	When?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0068par0540	Hopefully, within this month, we'll bring an arrangement before our House. I'd like to give you a number: 3,049 prisoners, 317 prisoners have applied. Criminal prisoner 273, arrested 24. Prisoner 23 for terror, prisoner 4. A total of 324 people have taken advantage of it so far. 1,269 prisoners, 81 prisoners, convicted on terror 326, who have now been rejected by the hospital and the medical examiner's office.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit02spe0070par0544	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I now submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0070par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 616. The commission and the government are in place. Now, we'll begin chapter one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 through 19. The first word on the first chapter is from Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmez on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0071par0010	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I'm here to announce the views of the National Party for Action on the first chapter of the bill we discussed. This bill brings with it some changes. The outside protection of prisons is taken from the gendarmes, sentenced to death officers. Criminal execution officers, as you know, members of the general administration. But because of those responsibilities, they use force now, and when an attack on themselves, in prisons, in transport vehicles, they become armed. The fact that they are part of these general administration services actually means that they are legally vulnerable. Let's just say that these prisons are in the terror zone. Therefore, the execution officers must be included in the safety services class, equipped with their rights and powers. We offer such a solution. The bill provides special service compensation for the criminally executed officers. Affirmative, we support that. However, 130 per cent of the lower commission set down to 30 per cent of the higher commission. I mean, when you're a camel, you make a bird, and that's healing. And with the latest price hikes, it's actually being taken back before they're given it. We're always talking about justice workers who create the substructure of justice service. The judge, the prosecutors have been given a new raise, and the prison staff are doing something more or less with this bill. But I wonder when the justice workers at the courthouse will be considered and when their presence will be realized. When will the clerk, bailiff, trustees, drivers, servants, executives, editors, editors, I.T. employees be remembered? When we spoke of them, we were indeed tired of receiving the answer to the resources. You find money for palaces, private planes, trillion-year-old government vehicles, but not for the workers of justice. That's not gonna happen. Then change the name of the Ministry to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Prosecutors, Mr. Secretary, and you will be saved, and the workers of justice will be saved. These brothers and sisters demand that their salaries be raised to a human level, their shifts paid again, their overtime paid up, their judicial allowance given to them, and that they may be able to benefit from the unpaid pool money. Bring in the bill, and we, the National Movement Party, will support it. On January 5th, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission ruled that four ministers accused of corruption should not be sent to the Supreme Court. The government and the pool media cried out for victory. It wasn't the opposition they beat, but the sense of justice and national consciences in people, at least for now. The charges are in the form of herpes. Documents and evidence are consistent with TUBITAK and forensics reports, almost infractional. Let's all take another look at the charges. A Bacarat reeling Egemen Donation. Accused crimes: trafficking in influence and bribery. Three times, on April 19th, $500,000 in a shoe box, $500,000 in a suit cover on August 28th, and $500,000 in a chocolate box on October 9th, are included in the prosecutor's reviews. They can't do anything to you, I'll lie in front of you. The alleged crimes: trading in influence and giving the citizens of Reza Zarrab (Turkish Republic) citizenship in exchange for material gain, violation of confidentiality, bribery. A crime which has been committed 15 times in a row by date and quantity. A total of $5,800,000 in bribes plus $185,000 in counseling. I denied 700,000 pounds of jewelry and then bought it with my own money. Charges charged: opposition to the Anti-Trafficking Law, fraud and bribery in official documents. Over Euros, dollars, Swiss francs and Turkish liras, a total of 88 trillion billion dollars, 438 billion, 400 million liras, over the course of March 2013. Also, the $729.850 watch, the tens of billions of pianos that are not fully determined. These are the ones who were detected and included in the trial. Besides, I did it, but I did it under Prime Minister Erdogan's instructions. He should resign. Erdogan Bayraktar said, "I am bound by my leader." Their crimes: trafficking in influence, misbehavior of zoning corruption. The December 17th corruption incident explodes, Prime Minister Erdogan's travel abroad is leaving us in the wind. He starts to perceive and accuse us. When Mr. Erdoğan returns, Mr. Bayraktar is on the line of truth and on the line of truth. He's still curious about the public opinion because there hasn't been a statement yet about that meeting. What did they say to the Prime Minister? It is possible that the great Erdogan is little Erdogan. Look, little Erdogan, both our names are Erdogan. From now on, let your name be the hen hand. He must have said that he changed his testimony in public less than a week. We no longer expect anything from you in the name of truth. I hope your pure children will remember you in a good way. Don't let anyone get hurt. Didn't this happen in public, dear friends? Even Bilal will follow me if I go before the Commission makes its decision. We have something to tell you at the Supreme Court. Didn't the threats fly? How is it that all of this isn't part of the suspicion that you made up and put into the Turkish justice system? Don't fool anyone, there are reasonable suspects for you, and there are acceptable suspects. They're all acceptable suspects to you. Even if a government based on justice, law, believes that these accusations are not true, it would want such serious allegations to be cleared, justified in the highest judicial authority, just to clear itself. You've run from the courts, you've driven judges, you've changed files, you've appointed operational security forces, you've flipped over the Investigative Commission, we don't trust the Constitutional Court, where your government has appointed 13 members. You said, "We don't trust the Constitutional Court." We don't even need courts, we'll pick out the rotten apples ourselves. You said. Then, dear AKP lawmakers, if the courts are unnecessary and each of us will have his own law, what is this call for judgment, and not an invitation to lawlessness? You called it a civil coup, you called it a parallel feud, corruption and theft. The money was placed there by parallel policemen. You said, "There are even images of this, we have seen it." So, after the decision of non-obstruction, the money is ours, give back our money, and with interest. Why did you bring it around? Everything that happened on December 17th and 25th tells us about corruption and theft. You may have won the first round on January 5th, but you should know that we're not gonna let this go until we're in front of the court to answer for the blind penny that people deserve. My other regret is that nine MPs will be added to the defendant's four ministers, who cleared them with instructions on the Commission. It's a shame about these guys. In order to save the boy Bilal and his ninja turtles, they made a decision to leave themselves in the dark. Dear friends, one day the legislature will end, and everyone will return to the people who have been dutiful to him. I hope these friends have something to say, a face to face with their fellow citizens. They sat on their riches, and the thieves received the money they had stolen. And why did you become partners in this plague? I hope that after this decision, you will have the best conscience you will ever need. In each period, theft has been corrupt, but for the first time, 10 to 17 per cent of the Cabinet, along with four ministers, a parallel structure has emerged, and unfortunately, the perpetrator has been left with a profit. Next time, Mr. Davutoglu, we'll cut off the arm of the corrupters. The government that covered the December 17-25 will now be able to answer for what? Your rule is weak, pathetic and guilty. Davutoglu lost his weight, and on April 23rd, he became the holiday boy who was temporarily put on the couch. On January 19th, this will be registered once again. This report will come to the General Assembly and be voted on. I hope that on that day the consciences, the fear of God, will prevail. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0072par0023	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Houseboy Congressman...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0073par0025	Mr. President, I asked for your word, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0072par0026	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0073par0029	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, 12 people have been massacred today in an attack on the center of a French cartoon magazine in Paris. The perpetrators of this attack, their identities, their beliefs, their political views, are just terrorists, and the duty of the world's public opinion is to publicly and unconditionally condemn those who carried out this vile attack. As the world draws closer and closer to each other and countries transform into more and more different beliefs, identity, understanding, such attacks attempt to sow hatred and hatred as they refer to human, respectful relationships between cultures, the will to live together. It should not be overlooked that such actions are intended to open a space for a number of social and political trends, such as "foreign hostility and Islamophobia," which we regretfully observe and believe to be a deep opposition to European civilization. Our nation is well aware of how different ties there are behind such acts, and that conditional reflexes are needed through the killings. The goal is world peace. As the EC PARTY, we declare that we share the suffering of the French people and their officials, that our place is the common purity of mankind in such matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0074par0034	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0075par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Today's attack on Paris has been carried out by a comic magazine, Charlie Hebdo, and it has been reported that 12 people have been killed and four have been injured, and we, the Republican People's Party, are condemning it with great hatred, and we want to say that we are with the French state and its people in the immediate capture and punishment. We ask for condolences on the families of those who died, patience, and immediate healing for the wounded. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0076par0040	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0077par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, again, we're talking to empty halls, but let's talk, let's go down in history. As both groups of vice presidents have just said, we strongly condemn these terrorists who have killed their lives wherever terror comes from. We say we're sorry for the head of the French people, but we also wish our police, our martyr, our family, and the entire safety community, who died yesterday in Sultanahmet. For him, the country that has suffered this terror for years is probably one of the most painful countries in the business. I think that in order for this terror to end, the people of the world must fight in cooperation. Congressmans, our agenda is clear. In fact, we have all been deeply distressed by the acquittal of four AKP ministers in the Commission for Investigation. This doesn't surprise us, it's in AKP's physique now to launder corruption, to ignore such errors, corruption, and to make excuses in its own way. So, we're not surprised. But when we look at the AKP's programme -- and this program was expressed in many places -- it says there exactly this, in the 2001 programme: opening the way for corruption investigations, limiting authorities' immunity to Parliamentary work. Is there any connection to the work of the ministers, dear MPs? I'm asking the AKP lawmakers: When you came to power and sent to the Supreme Court those who were being investigated for corruption charges at that time, then the Constitutional Court wasn't doing a coup, is it now? 10 of the 17 members of this Constitutional Court were appointed by Abdullah Gul, and one was appointed by De Tayyip Erdogan. So, 11 members were appointed by the presidents of the AKP himself during the AKP. What don't you trust? Why don't you trust me? Other than you, other than the AKP, when others are investigated in any way, go to the Supreme Court, but unfortunately when it comes to AKP people, the Supreme Court and all judicial authorities will be closed. Can you tell us about it? Can you tell that to your own heart? Where are you putting the CID's expert report, the report that the ministers' assets can't be disclosed? I, believe me, have not been able to describe it to my friends at the Justice Commission, nine of the AKP's deputies. How can you justify something like that, ignore it? Believe me, it doesn't suit us, it doesn't suit any of us, it doesn't suit the Clave. Our friends have just said: Erdoğan Bayraktar said that when the first investigation files were opened: "Whatever we did, we did by order of Erdogan. Why should I resign? Recep Erdogan should also resign if I am to resign. He probably feared these words, feared these threats, feared to go to the Constitutional Court together, and feared to reveal the truth. This means nothing more than the appreciation of the Turkish people. Hopefully, in the upcoming elections, our people will no longer be blind to these allegations of corruption and theft, they will not block their ears, they will no longer play three monkeys, they will see the truth. And it is there that we are confident that you will not be justified in the conscience of our people. Here, while I discuss the bill on these prisons, I'd like to point out that there are four soldiers and one civil servants who are still in prison from the Istanbul espionage trial. The name of this trial that these people have been tried on has already been directed to discredit them. This was a case of prostitution and military espionage. But it turned out to be prostitution, and it turned out to be a spy case. These friends of ours were acquitted and went on the road to punishment for membership in an unknown organization. During these cases, no defence witnesses were heard, no witnesses were applied to an expert witness, and the police officers, who were also on trial, were not heard. However, these people were punished, and the Supreme Court greatly approved the punishment of these people. However, it was later discovered that these cases were conspiracies, as well as other cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. Although everyone now knows it clearly, unfortunately, these five people are still in prison. They've been in front of the Supreme Court, waiting for days, and the families are looking for help from there. The Constitutional Court is postponing all the time, but these people are still in prison. Their families say: "Is it because these are small-ranking officers that our people are being ignored and there are no rights violations? " I address the Supreme Court from here to the Constitutional Court, I speak to the President of the Constitutional Court: is your conscience at ease? You, of all people, know that in many cases here, you know that they're innocent; you've told us that you're investigating their cases, but unfortunately, you're not making any decisions. Now on behalf of the people in the Istanbul espionage case, I'm calling from here: the Constitutional Court must decide to violate its rights and end these sacrifices. Now, when we come to this bill, of course, there are things that we're going to criticize. This may have come out of some obligation, but there may be some benefits to the protection of prisons, to the protection of their internal and external security, but to us, there may also be some damage. These prisons have the right to use force in this arrangement, as did the execution guard's legal arrangement before, but -- I just asked the Minister -- to be audited enough by independent institutions, unfortunately, no regulation is in this bill. We think that in order for this to be eliminated, not only should the Justice Department officials be inspected, but also by independent institutions, not just by the Justice Department inspectors. Because people who are in prison are people who have been handed over to the government. In many ways, it is necessary for the state to protect and protect them in their health as well as in their rights. But, as we know so far, as we have experienced in many cases, unfortunately, there are very serious human rights violations in prisons, deaths are being committed, there are still sicker prisoners and prisoners. We all know that our children were raped in prisons. In this case, we think that there may be serious control issues as a result of the fact that only the internal and external security of prisons is being done by the Department of Justice guards. Therefore, we think that the monitoring boards for the audit of penal execution institutions -- 4681 -- should be more independent. These monitoring boards are appointed for today by judicial justice commissions and can be called to a meeting. They have no authority to make any statement to the public without permission to direct the truth. Then what must be done? These monitoring boards must work more independently and autonomously with a judge from the judicial justice commission, along with those elected by the bar, the medical room, trade unions, trade rooms and universities themselves; if necessary, they should be able to explain their reports without permission, and be able to enlighten the world's public, the Turkish public in this way. Otherwise, we'll never be able to prevent human rights violations in prisons, rights violations. Desperate people in prisons will remain condemned to that despair. In this bill, social rights are also organised by the officers of the execution guard who were in prisons. Unfortunately, though, some of the rights that they told us and tried to reach us screaming from everywhere have not been given in this bill. For example, no arrangement has been made regarding overwork fees. Although they work 12 hours a day, unfortunately, they are not paid to work hard. The improvements made in the subcommittee regarding their rights have unfortunately been dissolved in the main commission, and their rights have been violated. At the same time, their demands for the safety services class instead of the general administrative services class that the execution officers' associations have passed on to us have not been taken seriously in any way. The demands of the guards of the execution have not been met to ensure that the ranks of the guards can be reduced to the fifth degree and to eliminate the inequality between them and other civil servants. Their demands on forming a union and recognition of the right to become a member have not been met. As a result of these failures... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...self-defense officers, unfortunately, think they can't make their voices heard. A lot of us here are law-enforcement professionals, and we know what conditions the death guard is working under. I also express my regrets for them because this voice was not heard that was being delivered to us screaming. I hope there may be some changes in the General Assembly, and we will have suggestions, and we hope that they will be accepted. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0078par0062	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0079par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute you all. For one thing, reports of 12 people lost their lives in the attack on Charlie Hebdo, a comic magazine in Paris today have been reported to the media that 4 people have been injured, and 9 others have been injured. In fact, it's an attack that shows how close and within Turkey is to this danger. When we consider that these attacks in the name of Islam have escalated to the level of anti-Islam and racism, we condemn them all as HDPs, and we want the perpetrators to be brought to justice to be known to the world that they have no ties to Islam at all. Mr. Secretary, there was a lot of discussion about the prisons as this bill was discussed -- we're taking Homeland Security, foreign security, the gendarmes in their prisons -- and there was a lot of discussion; it's going to be given to the execution officers. So even though the rights of execution officers have not been dealt with, what should the execution officers have to do with their own safety, their own rights, their own resources, and what should they be doing with these prisons, when people who are now at the head of television are watching, what do they want, what do they want, what do they want, what should they have to do with these prisons? Do we know that there are prisoners and prisoners in Edirne, Tekirdağ, Kandara F-type prisons in this snow, trembling in this cold, minus 7 degrees Celsius, friends? We know because the government tried to dominate the prisons with an F-type. The idea of F-type domination has been carried out under special jurisdictional courts under the guise of anti-terrorism as a policy of prisons, and each part of society has received its share. Now this extends to the parallel section. Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, CK, press, lawyers, and current investigations are continuing to re-enact corruption. Mr. Secretary has just announced 159,437 in prisons. They have the latest healthy numbers. How many sick prisoners are waiting to die in these, Mr. Secretary? I'd like to address your conscience. I'd like to address your conscience. How are you going to take the solution with that head, with that logic? In two years, we've been talking, we've been talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're reporting. Just last week, Lütfü Taş, 62, who arrived from Habur, in the second peace group in 2009, died. Because of the peace process, you'll give him 15 years at the age of 62, he'll lose his life, and you'll make peace. Well, who can you convince, who can you convince? Look, because of security, his release poses a threat. Since 2002, the Human Rights Association and MaZLUMDER have reported that when you arrived in 2002, there was a non-conflict process, a period of coalitions, and the ministers of that period live here. 2002, 2001, 2000, let's count down. 2000, the number of dead convicts is 89; at your turnover, 2013, the official number is 316. Now, a patient is looking at you, looking at your conscience, at your mercy, at your humanity, and at your law, with a two-dollar item entrusted to you, placed between four walls, and while you're keeping him isolated within those four walls, the family of the prisoner or the prisoner is looking at you, saying, "What is our right of health, what is our right of the prisoner, what is our right of the prisoner, what is our right of the prisoner?" Are you paying for this in the name of humanity, in the name of the law? Even the two-dollar meal you're serving is 25 years, 30 years later, when you've been released or applied legally. There is a sentence called "slowened life." The execution of this aggravated life sentence is to the death. There is no such system of execution in the world's most primitive country; I claim, in the world's most primitive tribe, they will not put anyone in prison. This system has been running in your time for 12 years. Didn't the European Court of Human Rights condemn Turkey just two or three months ago? Is that part of the bill? No. So, if there are three prisoners in one bed and three prisoners in the other, is there any way to create human conditions? No. Okay, one more thing. Don't they call all of you guys for probation? An execution reduction or hope of pardon or an exit of 159 thousand in prisons, there is no room; because there are no more ward systems in the barracks by the shift, is the state of the Republic of Turkey, where three people are in one bed, a modern state; is it a human state; is it a legal, conscientious state? So now you've taken the gendarme from the outside and put a guard outside. Is the whole prison problem solved? I'm asking, friends, and I'm asking all of you with a conscience, is the problem of prisons solved? Patient rights, judicial rights, the Committee for the Protection of Torture, book possession, television monitoring he wants; is all of these human rights deprived or not? There isn't. Look at the Turkish movies, they're always playing the show of the wardmasters. You do realize that the code of the wardmasters is in effect? Well, Mr. Secretary, I brought this particular computer. From here, my friends, our fellow lawmakers made a very comprehensive report on prisons, health care in prison, prison problems. It was the Peace and Democracy Party, then, our group. They gave this report to the Justice Department. Now, our friends who gave this report to 2014... I'm looking at the headlines in which they're in prison: the sick prisoners and the problems they're going through; the sick prisoners who have lost their lives in prisons; the dangerous report to the paralyzed, amnesiad prisoners; torture and ill treatment in prisons; the state and drama of the children in prisons; the solutions to the problem of the sick prisoners. Isn't it the goal now, if someone is imprisoned in this country, to bring punishment to society after they've completed their execution? I mean, if these 159,000 people had been accused of major corruption cases, I wonder if prison problems would have come up? If the great winners had children of people in very large places, would the problems of these prisons be raised a little bit more? Let's look at it from a human perspective, in human eyes, in human dignity, in human dignity, in human dignity, and in the education of the community, in the right, in the law. In this country where chain and iron are still being handcuffed, these problems are unresolved by this law, my friends. It's a new system, and it says it's not a solution system, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0080par0076	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In the name of the person, the Slap Congressman Reşat Right. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0081par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge on behalf of myself above Bill 616. I salute the High Council. Of course, with this law, there are regulations for domestic and external security in prisons, and we say that we find that normal as a group, we accept that. But it's true that in our country lately, when it's been considered what is the most spoken word or sentence in the last year or so, and when it's been researched, it seems that the most spoken sentences are about justice, about rights, about law, about prisons, about a lot of issues in society. Of course, we also see that the issues related to justice have suffered a great deal during the Justice and Development Party's ruling period, as well as recent events. So that on December 17th-25th, 2013, there was an incident of corruption that had never been seen in any country in the world, a freak incident in our country. It's a very wrong thing to think about that it didn't happen, that it was normal, that it didn't happen, or that it didn't happen. The following is: Public conscience is waiting for the answers to many questions regarding the corruption incident on December 17th and 25th. In particular, the results of the investigation commission set up at the Turkish Grand National Assembly were very important, but unfortunately, this is lost. This is: The Parliamentary Investigation Commission -- we call it unfortunately -- if the 4 ministers had left at least that subject to the Supreme Court, the public would have been relieved in this way, so that if there was a crime here, crime would be revealed, at least if they were all a sham, a work of a parallel structure. If they were trying, all of this would have been revealed, but this would have been lost. We also regret that this is lost. Although law, right, justice must be done, even if this doesn't happen now, there'll probably be some new studies about it in the future, and the bleeding wound of the public, I'm guessing the conscience will be relieved then. Respected lawmakers, we're all having serious problems in both our country and our country regarding the criminal execution institutions we're talking about. When we visit prisons, the painting inside is a very heavy painting. Currently, around 160,000 prisoners sleep with their prisoners in prisons, but when it's looked at inside, both the people in prison and the inmates have so many problems that the solution to these problems must first be in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The people who worked in prisons, the officers, from the execution guard to the other officers, were looking forward to the meeting of such a law, especially in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but as far as it's concerned, there is no serious, financial improvement to the inside of this law as well as to the staff working in prisons. In a very important way at first, there were offers about improving the rights of equity, but for some reason, those offers were, unfortunately, reduced later and brought to a very minimal level. That's not true, because all of those people are facing huge, heavy problems. At most, their greatest risk is their health-related risk, their risk to their psychological structure, which means that the person there is living somewhere along with the prisoner, along with some of the heavy painting that the prisoner lived in. Look, the other thing is, there are people at the second principal level in prisons right now. Unfortunately, there's no substance involved in this law regarding the second principals. The second directorate is being completely eliminated. But those people, as far as they're concerned, the second administration is a earned right, not a vice principal's, but they have a desire to continue their duties at a manager's level again, but we see that this work has not been done. Again, we are obliged to count health care at the beginning of serious problems in prisons. In prison, as I asked the general question earlier, Mr. Secretary said there were 11 doctors. 11 doctors in prisons are very few. In prisons, the number of doctors must be increased, especially with the number of psychologists, which must be greatly increased with sociologists. At some point, the prisons need to be very strong, where family physicians are assigned, but when family physicians arrive, they want to not work there, and they are reluctant to work there, and they are very underpaid. That's why we want to say that you have serious problems at that point. Other points are: the sports fields are very inadequate, there are a lot of inadequacies in their canteens... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0082par0091	Thank you, Mr. Right. Sakarya MP Ali Ihsan Yavuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0083par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act bill. I hereby salute the High Council. So far, in the time of our rule, there have been really important law studies, and we have all signed radical reforms together. In fact, this work, this bill, is a law study that we can describe at a very new level of reform, which is a very new set of norms. God willing, I wish him well for this occasion. As you all know, execution is a complementary element of punishment. The main purpose of the execution system is to protect society and to ensure that people whose crime has been incompatible with social life and whose guilt has been identified by the judicial bodies can be reintegrated into society by infecting their inner world and subjecting them to a proper regime of healing, strengthening them to become a society-compatible person, preventing them from recrimination. In recent years, physical transformation, development of mechanical, physical and electronic security systems, which have been carried out by switching from ward systems to room systems in criminal execution institutions, the opening of staff training centres in penal institutions, and in this way, the ability to give personnel pre-service and service training. With these developments, the Ministry of Justice General Directorate of Punishment and Appeals, which has achieved the capacity to carry out external security services, has been given the mandate to carry out the institution's external security services, allowing the gendarme to return to its primary post as the general law enforcement force. The construction of external security services by expert personnel will generally lead to improving the quality of execution services. The bill was prepared for the transfer of the external security services of the criminal execution institutions from the General Command of the General Justice Department to the General Directorate of Penalty and Corrections, to ensure that external security services can be carried out at this stage, the appointment of staff, task, authority and responsibilities, work bases and procedures, and the ability to use weapons, tools and equipment and other issues. In law, for example, domestic and external security services are being performed by the Ministry of Justice in countries such as Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland, and are considered as part of a judicial mission. The definitions of concepts in the bill have been made clear, and the field of duty and activity of domestic and external security guards and services has been clear. There are still legal recipes for intervention units that exist in the execution institutions. The personnel who will serve in this unit have been organised to specialize in close defence, professional intervention methods and techniques, proportional use of force, pre-drug crisis management, and in other institutions as well. This status has been made legal. In many countries, primarily Britain and France, the modern execution system is aimed at specialising in its field, interfering with events, being rational, using effective, proportional force. In this and so on, it would really mean a new execution system thanks to many of the rulings, and I would like to ask that the bill be passed and respected by the votes of you valued lawmakers, and once again, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0084par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yavuz. Congressmans, we've just moved on to the QA section. Fifteen minutes. Mr. Kusoglu? No. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0085par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm sending you a request from several inmates who are waiting for a year and a half or two to be granted probationary release in prisons to learn your opinion on this matter. Is such an arrangement possible? Second, where are your Ministry of the Court Palace of Kütahya, which has been expected for years, and the construction of the Kütahya prison? Although every minister who has made this promise for 12 years, unfortunately, there has been no improvement in this matter so far, it has upset Kütahya. Again, in the province of Kütahya, the victims of our citizens have gone to extremes because of the courts that were closed during your administration in our counties, such as Şaphane, Domanic, Aslanapa and Altıntaş. Do you intend to address the victims of citizens through a watch judge or a reopening of the courthouse in such counties? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0086par0113	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Right? No. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0087par0116	Mr. Secretary, the inmates in Silivri Prison have a number of complaints that the prison wards are cold, and the heating demands are not favourable by the prison administration. There's also a claim from the relatives of the inmates in prison that some inmates' wards are not particularly fueled and their demands are not met. Would you consider handling this problem with the inmates in prison? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0086par0118	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0088par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, correctional guards say they work 12 hours a day and don't get much work. Is there an improvement, an arrangement? They're asking for safety classes, they're asking for safety classes from the general management service class. Our proposals were not accepted, but if they weren't allowed in the safety class, why isn't unionization accepted in criminal execution institutions? We all know these two are contradictions. So let them be taken into safety, and let them take advantage of their rights there. What do you say about the demands of the death penalty officers? I'd also like to know what you think is going to be an improvement in overwork fees.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0086par0122	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0089par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with Article 10 of the bill, you're authorizing prison internal security, foreign security and intervention units to use force in case of riots, resistance, desertion, attempted escape, or any other incidents that might disrupt the order to stop the attack, end the resistance, or act on a law-abiding order. How are you going to train these, Mr. Secretary? If it's gonna be like the police, why don't you put them in safety class? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0090par0127	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0091par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's only one thing the prison staff wants from you, Mr. Secretary, if he thinks we're not worn out, let him not give us a cut of the wear and tear, but if he's too far away, let him come visit us one day, let him look at us, let him see us. If we deserve a share of the wear and tear, let him give us a share of the wear and tear. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0092par0132	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0093par0134	Minister, now, it's in the bill, and when this foreign security goes into the Ministry of Justice, there will be about 30,000 personnel. So what's the number that was thought of in 2015, and how many thousands of death guard officers do you think you're thinking about, first of all, for 2015? And the other thing is, you said that during your complete discussion of the bill, there's about 159,400, 159,500 in prison right now. When I was talking to the budget talks, I looked it up on the General Directorate website, about 157,000. I mean, does the Ministry have any idea when the 200,000 border will approach or when the 200,000 border will arrive? At this rate, is there any study on the date of 200,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons? That's what I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0092par0136	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0094par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this 20th article has now become a freak. In this 20th article, about 12 laws are being changed, and each one of them has the right to speak and propose separately, but at first we did the subcommission work, the main commission work, and there are 12 amendments, even though we asked for them to be edited in detail or not to be made into a bag of laws. I'd like to know: Regarding the vice principals and vice principals of these penal institutions, the four-year college graduates can be appointed assistant managers according to the written examination and interview results. Is this where the staffing is based? Is this new arrangement in the criminal execution institutions entirely going to include the AKP staff? Because the interview has been highly placed in all purchases, and now that there are about 30,000 new recruits, I want to know if the criminal execution institutions will be converted into AKP's backyard.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0092par0140	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0142	Mr. President, in the questions asked by Mr. Light, is there any study of probationary freedom? I've just responded to that, but it's useful to repeat it. We don't have a study on increasing the probationary release period at this time, and the reason is that, at this time, prisoners are able to benefit from supervised freedom, with a year left on condition. When he lays down two thirds of his sentence, he gets probation on condition. According to this, an 18-month sentence requires 12 months in prison. In the current practice, someone who's been sentenced to 18 months, maybe a week, maybe a few days, stays in and out of there until the laws are made. If we increase above what we have now, we'll face a situation such as no punishment, no execution, and no one who's been sentenced for more than 18 months. For example, some people say, "Take it up to two years. This means that when it's two years, someone who's got three years in prison is just going to go in and out. So will Turkey accept this public, our nation, our people? It doesn't seem reasonable when you look at it, because, in its nature, a crime related to misdemeanor crimes would be found to be a freedom and a lack of punishment. So we're not predicting a change at this point right now. But if there are other formulas, without punishment, could there be a formula for both punishment and a fairer opportunity for supervised freedom, we have a study on it, but we don't have a study to raise that amount right now. It's about Kütahya Prison... where now 2,215 acres of land have been assigned to our Office of Technical Affairs, and studies are currently under way. We have 1,400 people in Kütahya, but his project and other work are not yet available. With these...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0096par0145	Courthouse...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0146	It's about the courthouse, let them look, I'll answer. Sure, we've got courthouses closing down. These courts have been closed for lack of files. In fact, there are two prosecutors and two judges in one district, but in some places the number of files doesn't happen to be 50 a year, some places it doesn't happen to be 100, some places they're lower, and they're sitting there they don't have the opportunity to develop themselves, so in places where there are very few cases, some courts have been merged because of the file load in the past, they haven't been closed, they've been merged with another court. As of now, we don't want to separate them because we believe that this is the right application. We don't have that kind of work.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0096par0148	Mr. Secretary, wouldn't it be an execution of the court on duty?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0149	It's about Silivri Prison... you see, there's no heating in the wards, and all the reports that it's happening are lies, and those who say it are lying. At the Silivri Open Correctional Institution, as of today, the first day of these reports, as of 5/1/2015, some institutions received thermometers and thermal measurements of temperature and radiation temperatures in the ward. No. 1. At the L Type L Closed Correctional Institution, random cell radiator temperature 66 degrees centigrade, ward temperature 21.8 degrees centigrade, 2. Radiator temperature from the random ward at L Type-L Closed Correctional Institution is 60 degrees Celsius, ward temperature 23.8 degrees Celsius, 8. The temperature of the environment taken from a ward at the L-type Closed Correctional Institution has been measured at 21.2 degrees Celsius. The room temperature set by the World Health Organization in terms of human health in winter is 21 degrees Celsius. The executive officers here, everyone there has the same thing, one heating system, and they're taking advantage of it. This is a dirty perception operation. People who say that do this, it's not real. So in these winter conditions, before the heat burns, before the heat burns... our friends say that there are now around 7,000 prisoners and prisoners in Silivri. There's all these people, so none of them complains, doesn't say we have a problem.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0097par0151	Madam Secretary, your former partners are complaining.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0152	Mr. Minister, come on, the prisons are in really bad shape. There's no telling who's giving you these files.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0153	It's not the right information, it's not the real information, I want to express it specifically.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0154	Your information isn't true, it's not at all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0099par0155	These are your former partners.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0156	It's about overtime... they don't buy it, it's true.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0157	People sleep in sheep's sheep's houses in prison!
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0158	Mr. Ecder, there's nothing wrong with the heat, that's all I'm saying. So all the wards around 21 degrees Celsius, there's heat everywhere, there's no heat, we're standing in the cold, there's no heat. There's a story, there's no heat, I'm answering it. Since you may have entered from the outside... the furnaces are on fire, sir, there's absolutely no problem with the heat.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0159	Minister, not from the outside, I'm watching you from behind. I beg you, Mr. Secretary, you have time...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0160	If you want, let's send it. Go look.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0161	I'm going to look, Minister, I know.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0162	So you can go and see it in place.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0163	There are no human conditions in prisons, so go and visit two prisons. Please go and see.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0164	I'm visiting, I'm visiting. There's really no problem with the heat, the news isn't true, I'd like to express it in particular.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0098par0165	9 people are in bed, Mr. Secretary. Come on.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0100par0166	There's also Tekirdağ, Minister, Tekirdağ.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0167	Now, there's a problem with overtime, right. So it's true there's a problem with overtime. Of course, how many will be taken to the prisons?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0101par0168	They want a word, Mr. Secretary, they want a word.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0169	No, there's no study at the moment, that's what I'm saying. I mean, I didn't...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0101par0170	But the rights are being renewed, then, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0171	I want to express it. In the 20th article, you said those things, how do you get the purchases? It's not a new app anyway, you know, we don't bring in a new app. The guards, the guards of the execution, are being interviewed for an interview. I think they're being called to interview a certain number of applicants from KPSS, and they're being interviewed by that interview. So this is the system, nothing new.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0101par0172	But the interview board is the Ministry's.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0095par0173	I'd like to express it in particular. You have to trust that, after all, it's the people of this country who are interviewing and the people who work there, they're doing their duty under the law. Currently in office, death guard officers will not be assigned to foreign security, execution guards will continue their current duties. Regarding external security, for the first time ever, there will be purchases, and in that frame they will be employed in foreign security, and then there will be planning to serve inside after serving in foreign security for a period of time. Otherwise, no execution guard who is currently on duty will be assigned to foreign security when foreign security is fully deployed to the Ministry. I'd like to emphasize that here in particular. Those who are new there and who will also receive his education will serve. We'll do this training in cooperation with our Armed Forces or in cooperation with our police department, which means we'll have protocol with them.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0102par0175	We're out of time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0103par0176	Give me some time, and I asked him, and he stayed in my questions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0102par0177	I'll give you a minute or two more if you want.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0104par0178	One sentence...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0102par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0104par0180	I'm going to say a sentence. Of course, since this recruitment issue is going to be a gradual transition in five years, we're going to start in 2016, there will be no purchase in 2015, and I'd like to express that in particular. Because we're predicting this in 2016, so there'll be preparations. That's why it will be. And about the wear and tear... my deputy told me, and I've responded before. The matter of weariness is in this bill, and it's in the matter, and it's in the matter, and it's in the 20th article, and we bring it in. I wish him well. I answer other questions in writing as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0105par0186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. So the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 1. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the framework of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in some 616 rows. The framework is to regulate the fundamentals and fundamentals and methods in Article 1. We propose that the declaration be changed in the form of substantive laws. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan İğdır İstanbul Şırnak Kemal Aktaş Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 1st. We propose and offer the addition of the declaration to the rights and obligations of the working staff to be brought to the Article after the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Jesus Sky Aytun Çıray Aytüğ Atı Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0106par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0105par0206	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0107par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0105par0208	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0108par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have received your word on the motion we made regarding Article 1 of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. I salute lawmakers who don't hold justice in their own way, who don't owe their political careers and gains to the shadow of strong will.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0109par0212	What a thing to say!
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0108par0213	Dear friends, our motion on this clause also puts the rights and obligations of employees in purpose, so it offers to include employees who work in prisons who are practically grounded and who are restricted to cell phones. I can't understand why the Commission disagreed with this, but I hope you'll agree. My dear friends, for some time now, I've been visiting juvenile detention centers, visiting women's prisons, studying the problems of their children who have to be with them. According to the description of the child, my dear friends, anyone who is less than 17 years and three hundred and sixty-five days will be referred to as a child all over the world. What do we mean? Children under the age limit cannot make their own decisions, cannot protect themselves, and cannot survive on their own, so they are in need of protection. So, who's gonna protect these kids? These children will be protected primarily by the government, along with the family, where family and family are not enough. Are children protected and protected enough in Turkey? If the children had been protected and protected enough in Turkey, they would not have been dragged so far into crime. Children being led into crime, being employed, sexually abused, sexually abused means that children are not well protected by the government, by the government. Children who go to prison for crime or crime or have to stay with their mother grow up within four walls. Mr. Secretary, would the word "kid" and "penetrate" come together, for God's sake? Think about it, boy, and the prison. There's no way that two words like that could ever come together. Every time I visit the children's prison, it's not as much a prison as you want it to be, it's an education home. Say it, say it, an asylum, whatever you want -- when the children are between the walls, I can't get over them every time I visit them for a week. The state of those children's prisons really breaks my heart. Look, I'm going to give you a number, Mr. Secretary; I'm going to give you two digits, both your numbers, one of them a TİK number. According to TİK figures...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0110par0220	Time's up?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0111par0221	Here you go, Mr. Horseman. Go ahead.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0108par0222	If they don't keep the Minister busy, Mr. President, I'll continue.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0111par0223	You guys go ahead, I think he can hear you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0108par0224	According to TİK figures, the number of children led to crime increased by 68.9%, exactly, from 2009 to 2013, Mr. Secretary. Look, your habit is to compare before and after 2002. I'm telling you about your period. From 2009 to 2013, TÜİK says that crime has increased by 68.9%. Do you or do you not see that you are responsible for the government that governs the state? Again, according to your Justice Department data, as of January 6, 2015, we have 1,935 boys from 12 to 17 years of age, 61 daughters, 1,996 imprisoned children. You can't blame this on the kids. The AKP government, which cannot govern the state, is responsible for this. You can't solve their nutritional problems after you put the kids away like this. When I go as a pediatrician, should I buy food for the mothers' children, or should I prefer chocolate and biscuits? He prefers chocolate biscuits to his kid, shares his own food, and you get paid for it. We have to go through it and fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0112par0228	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the framework of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in some 616 rows. The framework is to regulate the fundamentals and fundamentals and methods in Article 1. We propose that the declaration be changed in the form of substantive laws. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0113par0235	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0112par0236	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0114par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0112par0238	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0115par0239	Dear lawmakers may have seen the problems of women in prison as well as those of you who are lawyers and lawyers or lawmakers who went to the prison and visited them. Do you know what conditions they were treated, what conditions they were taken, what conditions they were taken to a hospital when they were sick, and when they were transferred? This has no place in Islam, my friends, not in Islam, not in religion, not in humanity, not in conscience, not in morality. So a female patient, a prisoner, is going to go to a doctor... in my profession as a lawyer, I saw a patient who was pregnant for nine months and fifteen days chained to a bunk at the hospital... and on that bunk, they were waiting in chains, and I fought for it. It's the 21st century, it's been 38 years, we're going through the same thing. So there's a government tradition in logic, in practice. So these powers -- I'm always going backwards -- our right-wing, nationalist, conservative brothers, most of all religious, celibacy, women's privacy, prison -- is there any improvement in that? Are there special wards, special treatments for women in prisons? No. Do you have one for the kids? I mean, you've all been through some terrible horror stories about kids lately. There's no need to repeat this over and over again, but under every contract you sign, human rights agencies remind you that, for example, the principles of European Prison Rules apply? In case of lack of liberty, material and spiritual conditions are provided in prison, he says. How does it work? Is it hygienic, healthy eating, drinking, and all that, bed, cleaning? Is there any respect for his identity, his religion, his race, his faith, foreign, local, whoever he is? No one can tell you that. One is persecuted because of his political opinion, one is persecuted because of his identity, one is persecuted because of his faith, and this practice is the most prominent event in prisons. Is there another rule in prisons called health care, health rights? It's working? It's about family medicine. The Ministry of Health often voiced it. How does it feel to have people in the ringcar for 20 hours handcuffed to people on the border of death and brought to Istanbul at 40 degrees, 50 degrees [40 degrees] and to take them to hospitals there in Metris? We're building city hospitals, we're building big city hospitals, we're building nice state hospitals, we're in Adana, Diyarbakır, where, I don't know, where, why can't the patient go there? If so, why can't he be treated there? Why can't he be treated there like a human being? Isn't the person who lives there human? People can make a mistake, and they'll pay for it, and they'll get out, and they'll live in society. That's what prisons are for. Why aren't there regular audit boards, guys? That's what human rights agencies insist on saying. Without the audit boards of independent civil rights organizations in prison, if he does not report to this Parliament, this inhumanity, this torture, this persecution will continue and continue. Yeah, let's talk about the truth. We spend time in this coven with nothing, and we spend time with nothing. It's not hard to reform prisons, it's easy. Human life is easy. It's enough to look at a man like a man. When you look at this, you'll figure it out. It's a human being. You'll think it's because when you dig up the culprit, it's a human being. People come out, that's what the criminals say.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0244	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0117par0245	Will you give Mr. Kaplan time until the TV is turned off?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0115par0246	Thanks, let the other guys use their rights.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0247	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 2nd in the current 616 rows. We propose and propose that the clause in the clause be changed to "the subjects." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Levent Gök Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray Gürkut Acar Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "the training of the subject" and "the declaration of the individual" after the release of the article 2 in the framework of the Law Proposal for Changes in some of the 616 Laws that are in session. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0118par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0264	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0119par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0266	Who will speak, Mr. Buldan?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0120par0267	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0268	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to ensure that prison security units receive this kind of training in order to prevent and prevent abuse and torture of prisoners by prison staff and gendarmes in the current situation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 2nd in the current 616 rows. We propose and propose that the clause in the clause be changed to "the subjects." Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0121par0277	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0278	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0122par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0116par0280	Mr. Sky, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0123par0282	Mr. President, I've been promised the motion that we're discussing in Article 2 of the Criminal Execution Institutions and Security Services Act. I salute you all with love. Mr. Secretary, I'd especially like to ask you to rest very carefully on these matters. It's important. You, of course, want the security, the services of criminal execution agencies, the best of them, just like we do. So do we. But it's not just about him, and it's not limited, it's about how to do these things, and after that, it's about control. Now, look, I'm going to remind you of what has to be done chronically, with a responsible sense of opposition, and I'm going to try to prove to you what you're not doing. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, a contract against torture was agreed by the United Nations General Assembly in 1984, and a contract for membership states to participate in the violation of the torture ban and to address cruel practices was signed. Mr. Secretary, it took effect in 1987, and then again, an elective protocol was signed by the United Nations in 2002. This is the protocol you saw. What's the protocol? The United Nations contract against torture and elective protocol. This protocol stipulated that unfair practices in prisons, tortures, the abuse of staff there would be audited, and for that, all member states would be ordered to establish control mechanisms on both international levels and national level. Turkey approved this contract on 27 September 2011, members of parliament. On September 27, 2011, when we approved it, we had a one-year term under that contract, and we had to set up these control mechanisms within a year. On September 27, 2012, the current Prime Minister, then Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, went to the United Nations and confirmed this protocol that we approved, and, yes, we are building it as Turkey. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you now if this institution, which was founded to oversee torture in prisons, cruel behavior, exists in Turkey? That's the punch line. Now, you're going to tell me that in 2012, as you know, we founded the Human Rights Foundation. You gave this mission to the Human Rights Agency, you gave it to one of the 7 offices of the Human Rights Association, but this institution and the Human Rights Foundation have not yet been admissible to the United Nations, Mr. Lawmakers. So a control mechanism adopted by the United Nations was not established in Turkey. Regarding the Human Rights Institution, a deputy prime minister recently... in our objections at the time, we said that the Human Rights Institution is not an institution that the United Nations accepts within the Paris Principles of the United Nations. You'll soon change that. A deputy prime minister told us that the other day, two weeks ago: we're drafting a law that changes the 11 clause. Look, you're getting to the point, precious MPs. So let's not fool ourselves. Up there, international organizations out there are already seeing things very clearly, looking at what Turkey is doing. Turkey has serious, severe human rights violations. The biggest of these heavy human rights violations are in prisons, dear friends. Patient prisoners, treatment of prisoners, the conduct of prison guards against inmates, cruel behavior, torture, they all happen in prisons, but even though Turkey approves of the United Nations, Turkey does not establish these control mechanisms. The question, Mr. Minister, is when will Turkey -- when will it set up this control mechanism in prisons that the Human Rights Foundation does not have access to, which the United Nations does not accept? That's the question, the rest of this law is story, my dear friends. Do you accept unannounced control or not? Will international organisations come to Turkey one day and inspect your prisons without warning? Will the organizations in Turkey oversee this without warning or not? The key to the problem is here, and I say the rest is just the details, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0124par0291	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd draft of the current 616 rows. Article 1. We offer and offer to remove the driver's statement from the text of the substance, which is found in the context of his joke, C). Yusuf Halaçoğlu Faruk Bal Murat Basesgioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 3rd. We offer and propose that the clause (j) be removed from the substance text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Aytun Çıray Ali İhsan İkturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 3 of the Frame 3 of the Law Proposal to Make Changes in Some Laws that are currently under discussion in 616 rows. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0125par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0124par0315	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0126par0316	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0124par0317	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0127par0319	Dear friends, we're discussing the condition of the people who were arrested and put in prison after committing a crime. So crime, prelims, arrests, then prison conditions, foreign security, gendarmes, internal security guards, execution officers. Now, I, Mr. Minister of Justice, am here to ask Mr. Justice to make this clear. There was an incident in Cizre yesterday. The armored vehicles with the plates ripped out of the city's main center, four roads, dozens of them shooting randomly on Idil Street, and after that fire, they performed a group of demonstrations, let's say, on them. No matter what happens, the plates are ripped out, random shootings, special ops teams, and a 14-year-old boy, Umit Kurt, who gets shot in the heart and killed on his way to work, not inside the demonstrators, but through the crime scene. Again, a citizen who works in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is shot in the back the same way on his way to work, followed by a random scan by four others. What should be done in such a situation? I mean, what does justice do? What does the D.A. do? What do the police do? He goes to the crime scene, does a search for evidence, makes a report, determines the perpetrators. What do prosecutors do there, what does the Attorney General do? It's gone... it's dead, it's meant to be human life, and it's gone, where anyone who kills a 14-year-old child on purpose or not knows about it, is processed. He makes up his mind about whatever it takes, and then the prison process begins. Now, I'm asking the Minister of Justice again: when the events were settled there after the solution process, when the moats were closed, when there was no problem in public order, when the state's security forces began to disrupt public order. The parallel did this. It's easy to say, "It's easy to put it on someone else's back." It's easy to say, "It's easy to put it on someone else's back." Well, isn't it the duty of justice to identify them? I'm asking now. Now, the people in Cizre say that when people make healthy decisions about such matters, from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Cizre to the heads of the bar, all civil society organizations from trade associations to trade unions -- including the Human Rights Association -- find that four of our citizens who have been killed in the last week have been killed by police bullets. I'm asking the Minister of Justice if the prosecutors, the prosecutors, are they investigating this? What did they do if they launched an investigation? What was the result of this investigation? What armor, what crew, what way they came from, who did this? Are they parallelists, or are the original officials, who's doing this, who are these provocateurs? Cizre cannot bear to give up a son every day with bullets thrown out of armored vehicles by security forces, I'm quite clear. Today, all Cizre people protested from seven to 70 NGOs, all sensitive people, people with a conscience in Cizre. So, where's the justice here? Where's the D.A. in that? If there's anything wrong with a situation like this... and the number of children killed during the AK PARTY is 200, by the way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What can you do here in prisons when you can't do justice in violation of your right to live? That's the whole point. In order for this to be revealed, the Minister must also make a statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0128par0327	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 3rd. We offer and propose that the clause (j) be removed from the substance text. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0129par0334	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0128par0335	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0130par0336	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0128par0337	Here you go, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0131par0339	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, number 616. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing a bill like this, where the prisoners in the Justice and Development Party's ruling period are arrested and convicted from 59,000 to 159 thousand, where over 2,000 prisoners are killed in prisons, and more than 50 have committed suicide, and there's been a lot of problems until the use of water, which is our source of warming, nutrition, and life, and the inmates in prisons can't use health services, and such an important bill should be addressed. Unfortunately, the Bill 616, which we're discussing, beyond solving these problems, has come to us as a more deepening and deepening arrangement package, by making some changes to the basic structure of criminal execution institutions. When we look at this arrangement, we see that external security in prisons, such as domestic security, has been removed from the Ministry of Interior, taken from the General Command of the Gendarme, transferred to the Ministry of Justice, has been handed over to the Ministry of Justice by the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Interior security, foreign security and intervention units, which have been created, in the case of certain conditions in the law, and have been given the authority to use its responsibilities in the form of active and passive resistance. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, these regulations have not actually come up as regulations that facilitate the monitoring, monitoring of the problems in prisons, but as the deepening of problems. First of all, the fact that the external security of prisons is linked to the Ministry of Justice, just like Homeland Security, seems to be a problem that will eliminate the double control mechanism and create a control weakness within the Ministry of Justice. Formerly, the General Command of the Gendarme and the Ministry of Interior have a say in the security and control of prisons as an independent unit from the Ministry of Justice, while unfortunately, this audit is being merged into the person and the title of only one body, one institution. Again, it raises problems such as giving internal security units, foreign security units and intervention units the authority to use force in the form of active and passive resistance under the conditions shown in the law, abuse of that right and even excessive violence during the use of this authority. Now, in the process of bringing such important problems, it is clear that the control of prisons should be even more common with the prison monitoring boards, while it should be more efficient and functional, that it is not possible, unfortunately, because of the structure of the prison monitoring boards. As our Group Vice President, Mr. Levent Gök. As stated earlier, unfortunately in Turkey, the monitoring boards of prisons are being carried out by the Justice Department, the Justice Court in the provinces, by the justice court in the provinces, by the justice courts in the provinces, so the elections are being held by them. Dear friends, after the 2010 referendum, I'm afraid the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been transformed into a second secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Justice commissions and mayors in the provinces are completely under the control of the Ministry of Justice after the HSYK, which has been turned into the second deputy minister of the Ministry of Justice. Now, on the one hand, we combine internal control and external control in a single institution, in the Ministry of Justice, and on the other hand, we leave the monitoring boards to the justice commissions once again under the control of the Justice Department. So even though it's not in the image, we're actually putting together the organ that's going to do the execution, the organ that's going to do the application, the organ that's going to do the inspection, in a single institution, in a single adjective, even if it's not in the image. This has nothing to do with democracy, Minister. So this arrangement will increase the problems in the prison. Other than that, we leave the authority to use force to the Attorney Generals of the Republic. Dear friends, today the state prosecutors of the Republic are unfortunately not the prosecutors of the republic. Today, the state prosecutors of the Republic have become directly the President's prosecutor outside the Ministry of Justice and the government. As it has been seen in recent investigations of December 17th and 25th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the state's prosecutors who made the decision today are not the republic's prosecutor, but the President's prosecutor, and the authority to use force will be used by the President, not directly by the prosecutors of the republic. And we think it has nothing to do with the democratic regime and the state of law. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0353	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd draft of the current 616 rows. Article 1. We offer and offer to remove the driver's statement from the text of the substance, which is found in the context of his joke, C). Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0133par0360	It's under the discretion of the General Assembly, sir, the Commission.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0361	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0134par0362	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0363	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0135par0364	Motive.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0365	I'm reading the reason: The driver can't be considered an assistant service class and an external security guard. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 4 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, the 4th draft of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. We propose and propose that the title of the article be changed in the form of principles to be observed in the running of security services in the institutions. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Muharrem Light To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It is considered under the framework of Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in some of the 616 Laws in which there is a meeting. We offer and propose that the declaration be changed in the form of the law be changed. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Kemal Aktaş Erol Dora İdris Baluken Does the commission accept?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0136par0384	He doesn't care, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0385	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0137par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0132par0387	Mr. Baluken, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0138par0388	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing a bill for the Justice Department. Therefore, I would like to inform the General Assembly of the developments in Bingol, where justice has been put to waste. Hasip Bey has just passed on some information about what happened here in Cizre. I'd like to stress that the same forces at Bingol are now in search of the same dark centers by sticking their backs to the state. For the past two months, the state has been in a special effort to turn the government's back to the state and to make Bingöl the centre of dark killings. And we don't see any sense of the Justice Department or the government in that regard. We've been here for two months asking who are the perpetrators of the assassination of the Bingol Police Commissioner, and we're asking, "Who are the murderers of the four young men who were executed without a trial on the Youth Bridge?" Imagine a state hiding people who put bullets in police officers, hiding assassins, shutting down four citizens who had nothing to do with it, and a state that's being tried without a trial, the police commissioner, the governor, the military official there, the Home Secretary here, the Prime Minister, they're spreading false information to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior, is legitimizing the execution without a trial after an hour after the incident in Bingol. Now that there's a five-minute limit, I'm going to talk about it in the other motion, because the president of the court is starting to put up a position that even the court judge won't accept. We're dealing with a situation like this. There has still been no investigation into why this police chief, the governor, the General Staff, the military official, led the Prime Minister, the Interior Minister in this way. Is that an understanding? Look, you didn't expose the assassination of this police commissioner, so about a week or two later, there was an armed attack on the director of the riot squad. All media organs have launched armed attacks on the director of the PKK's riot squad. Immediately two days later, the governor of Bingol explained that the incident had nothing to do with the PKK, and that if by accident it means what it means -- we don't know it -- it happened. Two days after that, the same official officials said that the director of the riot squad there was shot by that ranger for having an affair with a ranger's wife. We're talking about a state of conflict, a conflict of power, and it's all being submersible in Bingol. In Ankara, as you wish to bury it in the dark depths of this place, so are the unsolved killings within this state, as well as in Bingol. I'd like to stress here that the Bingol Prosecutor and the Chief Constable of Bingol are making a special effort. The State's Attorney has issued a decision to detain our party friends who are not involved in all of this, and the Bingol police have begun to detain our party members, students from the university, who have come in front of them illegally. I got the Minister of Justice on the phone at the time. For two days, a member of a party council was tortured to the extent that a lawyer's opinion would be performed without the opinion of his relatives. Despite what the doctor at the hospital said was a risk of life, he was taken from the hospital, and our fellow member of the party council was forced into court, to the police station, and I would like to stress here that even though the Minister of Justice has information about this, he has not launched a single administrative investigation into the unlawfulness of this incident. I stress that there are other words to say about this in particular, and I will finish my speech at the next motion. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0139par0397	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, the 4th draft of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. We propose and propose that the title of the article be changed in the form of principles to be observed in the running of security services in the institutions. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0140par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0139par0405	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0141par0406	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0139par0407	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0142par0409	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Minister, before I start speaking, you know there's been a new prison in Erzincan, it's not over yet, but there's a lot missing from the prison; it's been temporarily accepted, but there's too much missing. We're short-staffed; we're short-handed; we're short-staffed; the family doctor is already coming in, and there's trouble with him; they're starting to build three-bed beds now, so it's probably going to go up to 1,000. Therefore, we'd appreciate it if you'd help us with the vehicle, staff and medical personnel first. Of course, we didn't want the prison to open, but it's been done, so let our fellow citizens there be comfortable, and let our employees be comfortable. Mr. Minister, of course, Erzincan has been invested in 5 quadrillion. That investment, there's a prison, and there's a courthouse, and there's nothing but a prison and a courthouse, all of it from TOKI, all of it from the roads, all of it from here to Erzincan. Minister, I spoke here on 19/11/2014, so there were 155,863 prisoners and prisoners; as of today, 7/1/2015 -- I have just received 159,452 prisoners and prisoners -- so in 48 days, you work as a factory -- 3,589 people arrested or sentenced. There was a little tension in Erzincan last week -- what we never wanted -- you put 11 people in jail, arrested, 11 people out. I told you before, 28,000 people for drugs, 27,000 for theft, 27,000 for murder. And that's what this country's economy is really about. Of course, volunteer prisoners in prisons, guards, employees there. You've made a minor adjustment to their problems, but we, especially as the Commission that's visiting prisons, are inadequate... the people who work there, especially these guards, they don't have holidays, they don't have any official holidays, they don't have any days, they work there every day, they work there for 12 hours, most of them are psychotic. Okay, well, there are some of them out there who actually treat people like they don't fit. There's a saying, you know, that a mangy cow sinks a barn, but the other one, there's people out there who normally want to do business, but they're in economic distress, they're psychologically disturbed, we don't think it's enough to make them better. We think this matter should be reviewed. We went to Eskişehir Prison last week as a prison commission. We couldn't see everyone because there was a fire in the prison, but we talked to women and children, and we talked to the prisoners who were from LGBT. What we saw back there was really pathetic. Minister, I want to show you in particular this boy... the minister isn't looking. Minister, I want you to see this picture, it's in the press. These are the children who were imprisoned in Eskişehir. I'm showing this kid -- because he's in the press -- and we're asking this three-year-old kid -- what are you gonna be when you grow up? Do you know what he's saying? When I grow up, I'm going to marry my husband, I'm going to slit his neck. This kid's three years old. At least as a government... oh, thanks to our Hillside Mayor, Kazim Kurt, our brother, he's got a great service there, he's got his gifts, he's got his diapers, he's trying to feed them, but they need daycare, they shouldn't stay there. This kid's saying that, and we all saw how depressed he really was. That's what the boy says when he grows up, I'm going to marry him, and I'm going to slit his neck. When these kids live there, it's clear what's going to happen in this country tomorrow, what kind of trail it's going to take. You're already used to it. Plus, her husband's under arrest in the same way, but her husband has advanced kidney failure, he's in the hospital for kidney failure, he can't move, so he's tied up in a bunk bed. I don't know what's the point of him being locked up in there anymore. And lastly, I'll tell you, I'm out of time again, the LGBT prisoners from LGBT are saying, "We've given up this job now, we don't want to do anything anymore, but we want to learn here to forgive our sins, we want to get religious information, but when we go to the imams, they treat us very badly, they don't give us any service, they've got a very bad perspective there. Plus, they're telling us that there are particularly other prisoners who are treating LGBT prisoners very badly and they're doing various tricks to get close to them. What we think should be done in prisons, especially in a separate prison, is that they should be kept separate, not in the same place. Of course, in these materials, we'll see that there's no problem with those guards, if only their problems could be solved better. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit03spe0143par0423	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 616. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 5th. Article 3. We offer and propose that the expression in the jokes of the camp be changed from the campuses to the embodiment of the camp. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Nurettin Demir Ali İhsan İkturk Mughla Zonguldak Jesus Christ Sky Aytun Çiray Gürkut Acar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th article in the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan İğdır İstanbul Şırnak Kemal Aktaş Erol Dora İdris Baluken Does the commission agree with this motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0144par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0143par0017	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0145par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0143par0019	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0146par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. I've just tried to sum up the situation about what happened in Bingol. Let me rephrase that to jog your memory right away. There's been an assassination of the Bingley Police Commissioner and his team, there's not a single person who's been taken into custody or arrested in connection with this incident. Four young men were executed, slaughtered without trial on the Youth Bridge, and there is not a single detention or arrest on it. Shortly after that, the director of the riot squad was gunned down, not a single detention or arrest. There's a conscious effort to cover all this up, both at the Bingol police station and at the Bingol prosecutor's office. Look, the party councilman I just told you about, who was wrongfully detained and had to have surgery because his face was broken, was released in the first court. I'd like to convey to you the statements expressed by the court judge there. Even though security footage of the incident was reflected in the media, a detailed examination of these images did not go into the file for about three months, and therefore, the court president assessed that it was in such a critical dimension. I've also told this General Assembly that the criminal examination results of the incident were not reflected in the file for a long time, even though documents from the TİB were sent directly from TİB to determine how the suspects communicated through telecommunications. So, in essence, even after three months, no criminal investigations, no contact information on the phone, no CCTV footage of MOBESE were properly filed. Consciously, the prosecutor following this case is trying to cover up these events, and this prosecutor continues to terrorize the public as if it were not enough. Every day, in Bingöl, HDP province administrators, university students are subjected to house raids, detained, arrested as if breaking down doors. In a place like this, there's no talking about justice, there's no talking about the social state, there's no talking about the legal state. Mr. Minister of Justice is here, but I'd like to address the entire government. An administrative investigation should be launched urgently, particularly the governor of Bingol, and why the Chief of Police and Bingol prosecutor want to cover it up in such a hurry. A mechanism trying to manipulate the Prime Minister, the President, the Interior Minister with false misinformation must be revealed. When you don't reveal it, when you walk out of here and say, "The activity of a parallel set of structures" will be non-responsive. The detention and arrest carried out on the public must be carried out as soon as possible, as soon as the rights of university students are removed, as well as the current -- we know -- should be disclosed. We're giving a clear warning. There are some dark affairs being taken into your government's custody and knowledge. There are approaches that almost want to turn all the centers of the city into a pool of blood. I repeat, urgent measures must be taken concerning these matters. In particular, I stress again that the prosecutor who's trying to cover up the case with these files needs to be dismissed immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0147par0027	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 5th. Article 3. We offer and propose that the expression in the jokes of the camp be changed from the campuses to the embodiment of the camp. Nurettin Demir (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0148par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0147par0035	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0149par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0147par0037	Here you go, Mr. Iron. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0150par0039	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we're discussing an regulation of the Ministry of Justice law in Turkey, where justice and law have been thoroughly questioned. So I made a promise on the 5th Amendment. Really, really, Mr. Secretary, what's going on? Law, justice, yes, it's taken so many hits in Turkey, but what's going on in Bingley, what's happening in Cizre, what's happening in the east? Since security has shown such weakness, there are serious problems in Turkey. I mean, you have to explain, we're getting really uncomfortable. If three people try to walk down the street in the West, if they try to have a meeting, you go out with batons or something, you break their head, their eyes, but in the east, the blood takes the body, the government doesn't speak. How interesting! Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, I've seen that the motion for Article 5 has not been accepted. If we had offered you Ottoman, would you have accepted it? I'm very curious if it's a proper word in Turkish. It's called a placement, it's used in Turkey, it's used in universities, it's a very respectable word. So the prison campus is a suitable term? I mean, if that's the case, turn him into Ottoman, it'll be even better. ▪ It's a pretty good Turkish placement. I wish we could use most of those terms. Of course, with this law, there will be around 34,000 new staff, new managers, assistant managers. I hope it's not like the National Ministry of Education appointing school principals, appointing branch managers, Mr. Secretary, that you make an effort and effort to get decent, deserving people to be assigned here, and we'll applaud. If that doesn't happen, woe to the people in that prison. If AKP supporters are to be appointed, this country will face even greater challenges from now on. Last week, we went to the H-type prison in Eskişehir. You know, as the Republican People's Party Commission for Review and Observation of Prisons, we've interviewed over 1,500 prisoners in more than 150 prisons so far. I especially thank them for welcoming us, the nation's deputy for the first time. I'd like to express to them from here, especially with your Ministry. Thank you. But inside, we see that people who have a particular sexual preference are really very victims. We also see this in many prisons in Turkey. They want to go to a Koran class, they can't go, they want to read books, they can't read books; they want to work out, they can't; they have the right to be transferred to an open prison, but they're not sent because of their sexual preferences. This discrimination -- this, of course, is in many areas, but it's very typical -- has to be a solution, Mr. Secretary. I specifically want a list of meals everywhere I go, Mr. Secretary. Look, it's a very nice menu, but -- like I marked it with, like, one day a week, they give olives, one day a week, and that's three apples, and that's one apple. Mr. Secretary, we are a country that produces olives. We have plenty of olive oil, cheap olives. The pomegranate is as small as you want, four cents a pound, 20 to 25 cents a pound, no takers. Please give me a full transfer and let's increase our production of our local goods where there are other boarding schools, military troops and food. I mean, it would be a huge contribution to our farmer. Mr. Secretary, we specifically say that prisons aren't a prison, but that's not what I'm saying. That's where the torture is. In particular, a young brother was tortured in Antalya, and he went on a hunger strike especially for four days. They also applied to the district attorney's office. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And these kinds of tortures, unfortunately, are increasing, and we often hear these tortures and screams in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0151par0050	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 616th Amendment. Article 2 of the Article 2. Instead of removing at least three phrases in his joke from the text of matter, we propose and provide that enough of it be added. Faruk Bal Bkent Belen Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 6. Article 1. In his joke, the release of the "Internal Security Agency's leadership and external security" from the text of the substance. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as follows. "The head of the Agency is responsible for fulfilling security services mentioned in the Law" Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 616th article in the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from its bidding text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0152par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0151par0075	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0153par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0151par0077	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0154par0078	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Two years ago, on January 9th, in the middle of Paris, in the heart of Europe, three Kurdish revolutionary women were brutally murdered. In this massacre, which took place in history as the Paris massacre, they were slaughtered in a brutal way, in a way that would bleed the conscience of all mankind. From that day forward, the current government of the Republic of Turkey or the Justice Department have made no attempt to expose this murder, if necessary, to bring the entire background of this murder before history. About the murder, you know, then a suspect named Omar South was arrested. Although this unsub previously had certain connections in Turkey, has been in Turkey for several weeks before the murder, has been in Turkey several times over and over again, where he has been in important talks, probably discussing murder plans, information that he has made hundreds of phone calls is stable, so far, neither the Justice Department nor the AKP government has been able to disclose any information about his links to Turkey. If any talks have been made with the French ministries about the French government, or if they have been done, a single shred of information that there has been an attempt to uncover the incident has not been shared with us, unfortunately not with the people of Turkey. We have made it clear that the entire responsibility for this Paris massacre, especially in this sense, belongs to the French government and the AKP government, who is not investigating the murder of its own citizen. Because during this period in particular, some audio recordings of the unsub were released to the media. Who, how, who, how, could have leaked these recordings, could've been found out very easily. Again, we know that in the media, especially inside MIT, some documents are being provided with sheets and sheets. How these documents were organised could have been revealed in a very comfortable manner with an administrative investigation, including a different organisation within the MIT, which covered the whole of the MIT. However, the AKP's government and the Justice Department are in great dissension regarding the developments that have so far been a topic to the media, concerning the Paris massacre. Who planned this murder? Who are the countries behind this massacre, what are their connections? What are some institutional structures within the state in Turkey, their role in this murder, their part in this massacre? We'd like to emphasize here that these need to be revealed immediately. In particular, I remind the General Assembly that in the course of this massacre, the first steps of the solution process have been taken. I'd like to rephrase the fact that we're dealing with an inhuman, brutal massacre, a massacre of women, which is actually intended to end the solution process. If the AKP government had a sincerity in the process of resolving, we think it had to reveal all the details of such bloody planning, which had yet to end the solution process from the very beginning, and pass on the necessary information to the people of Turkey. In particular, we expect an explanation from the Minister of Justice, especially when we are approaching the two-year anniversary, to share information about whether there is an investigation file, to share with the people of Turkey what the progress of the investigation has been, what the information has been, what the data is. I invite the AKP, not to cover up these massacres that aim to end the solution process, but to expose them as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0155par0086	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 6. Article 1. In his joke, the release of the "Internal Security Agency's leadership and external security" from the text of the substance. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as follows. "The head of the Agency is responsible for fulfilling security services mentioned in the Law" Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0156par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0155par0095	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0157par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0155par0097	Mr. Acar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0158par0099	Mr. President, I have been promised the 6th Amendment of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act, 616 rows. I salute you all. There are serious problems in all areas in Turkey, my dear friends, and the prisons are not out of them. However, it is not possible to say that a serious solution to the problems will be provided with the next draft. In prisons, people are almost stacking fish right now, sleeping in order, three shifts full of beds. Since there is no healthy environment in prisons, and after that, rehabilitation services are not properly provided, children in prison are re-indicted, many children are forced to return to prison because of the crimes they committed in prisons. Since there is no healthy environment for children and there is not enough control for them, unfortunately, children in prison are also the target of new crimes, and it continues and goes on in Turkey as an event that has hurt people's conscience. And we all know the troubles of the sick and imprisoned prisoners, my dear friends. Unfortunately, we saw patients and prisoners who were not released from prison until the time of death, and they died a few days after they were released. Your ministry has not been careful enough and cautious about health care, nor has it been taken care of. We're going to make a new arrangement for the safety of the prisons. It's impossible to say that we've taken a step towards solving these problems. A new system is being brought in, so the gendarme will be disabled, and the Justice Department will have only one say. That's what the 6th article is about. For the prison's internal security, the head of the internal security agency, the head of the foreign security agency for its security, and a new system is being created. But there will still be suffering from it. My dear friends, our friends have written about the opposition. There are serious complaints about rights violations in prisons, serious problems. Now under control of these, the Justice Department will be the sole authority. When we look at it, however, it is clear that the system will face serious difficulties given the Minister of Justice's past practices. Look, you haven't established a legal branch in years, and the police and the gendarmes are still serving as courts because the Justice Department can't provide the same training and discipline. I've just asked Mr. Secretary here: So how are you going to train these internal and external security guards, and in what discipline will you train them? Say those things. It can only be raised in a safety discipline. Then put them in the safety class. You're saying no. I mean, it's not a bird or a camel. It's a shame for these people, they work 12 hours, they don't get overtime, and that's the law that you can't do that with. My dear friends, I'm afraid Turkey has been the lowest justice institution in the ranking of most trusted institutions during the AKP justice ministers. Unfortunately, it's a justice institution, and in Turkey, trust in the judiciary is down to zero. Only those responsible, my dear friends, are the ruling Justice and Development Party and its justice ministers. With the referendum of September 12, 2010, match juice was poured into the foundation of justice in the system. A HSYK was created entirely by the will of the AKP, with special authority judges, with special prosecutors, Turkey was put into a semi-open prison. Now, our concern with this arrangement is that the Justice and Development Party is in a new state of preparation in the coming period. We have a concern that he plans to put them all in prison under the discipline of the Justice Department. Unfortunately, in order to cover up corruption, theft, now you seem to be complaining. What were you thinking yesterday? Where were you yesterday when people were wrongfully losing their freedom, disposing of the entire army, putting those generals, admirals, in prison, not guilty? Did you at least apologize or even answer? You didn't. But now with the same understanding, you're doing something new. I wish you well. It's not going to do much good, but with these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0159par0108	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 616th Amendment. Article 2 of the Article 2. Instead of removing at least three phrases in his joke from the text of matter, we propose and provide that enough of it be added. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0160par0115	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0159par0116	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0161par0117	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0159par0118	I'm having it read. This motion has been made to conform to the method of lawmaking. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the sixth clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that the relevant Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic be removed from the text of the clause, which is being informed without delay, and that the decision to enter into the institution be added immediately to the sentence to report to the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Faruk Bal Murat Basesgioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 7th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. It's called the "results" or "results" and 3. We offer and propose the release of the clause text of "not guilty to the charge," which may pose a danger to the prisoner, prisoner or personnel in his joke. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Ali Serindağ Gürkut Acar Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th article of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from its bidding text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0162par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0159par0144	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0163par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0159par0146	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0164par0147	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. In that five-minute period, I'd like to share with you some information about the sick prisoners again. In all the talks we've had with the government over the past two years, we've been hearing some very clear statements about patients, inmates and prisoners who have cancer, who have a stroke, who can't survive alone, who will die if they stay in prisons. Our group vice president has just raised a question to the Minister of Justice, who has been telling us the answer we have received here for two years: we will make a legal arrangement on this matter, we will bring it to Parliament as soon as possible, we will bring it to the General Assembly. So on and so forth, people continue to die. So not only HDP MPs, or other opposition parties, but many lawmakers of the EC PARTI agree that the situation is a human shame, many lawmakers who have been to prison and have been to prison. A commission has been established within this Parliament regarding the process of resolving, and that commission has drawn up a report, and at the very top of that report is recommended to arrange for patients who can't survive in prison. So you're still not taking steps in a human face that even your own MPs recommend, we're still doing the deed, we're going to bring the law. You're still stalling. The President says that the arrangements must be made. The Prime Minister says that whatever minister we're dealing with from the government should be done. It's interesting that the former Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Justice must be made. It says that it can't be done. So either your government can't control the bureaucracy or I can't express the other possibility morally from here. That's a shame, guys. Leaving people who have cancer, who have a stroke, who have no function except breathing, to die within four walls is an actual death sentence, the right to live, that's clear. Look, a few days ago, we lost a friend called Lütfü Stone. Lütfü Taş died of a heart attack in Diyarbakır Prison. Do you know who Lütfü Stone is? In the Habur process, he was a friend of ours who came from Kandil to come to this country in peace and wanted to pave the way for some steps. Lütfü Taş came to this country with the purest feelings to ensure peace in this country. You put our friend who came in peace in prison first, you've kept him in prisons for years, you don't send him to the hospital when he's sick, and in the end, unfortunately, you force him to have his funeral removed. With such understanding, it is not possible to establish social peace, nor to create hope, especially for the democratisation of the country. I think that the overtime of these sick prisoners should be the first priority of the Justice Department and this House. We've said it over and over again. If this Parliament is working overtime by midnight, the first thing it has to do is to enforce these arrangements, which stand in front of all of us as human shame. When you don't do that, unfortunately, you continue to bring drama about the deaths to the agenda of the people of this country. There's a lot of trouble in prisons, but especially with these transfers and exiles, there's a lot going on that's really hard on their conscience. From Bingol to Tekirdağ, from Bingol to Amasya, I say that sending a family just to see their child is neither moral nor moral nor religious nor political morality. And I'm saying that in this recent period of time, especially with seasonal conditions, there have been deaths in many families who visit prisons, and there have been fatalities in the car accident. I'd like to point out from here that the transport of prisoners and prisoners should be taken to places where families can reach comfort. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0165par0157	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 7th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. G) to the proceedings or to the declaration of his joke and to the 3. While there is no crime in the joke, we offer and submit the release of the statement from the text of the substance, which may pose a danger to the prisoner, the prisoner or the staff. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0166par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0165par0165	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0167par0166	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0165par0167	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0168par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, now, why are the laws made? It's born of a need, we say it all the time, but unfortunately, in the AKP era, especially in this 24th term, the laws are made to take into account some events, sometimes just to make law, rather than to be a text born of a need to be met. Now, some of the provisions of this bill are especially in that sense. Now, you're taking the outside security of the prisons from the General Staff, therefore the Ministry of Interior, and you're giving them to the Ministry of Justice. Since 1937, the outside protection of prisons has been provided by the General Command of the Gendarmes, so it is provided by the Ministry of Interior. In the 80-year period, what is the problem with this practice that you are now taking away from the police, giving away foreign security to an organization that will be under the Justice Department? Look, security is an occupational hazard. If you underestimate security like that, you can't provide security in the country. So I suggest you give it up. Let's check our memories, go back. During September 12th, they wanted to do the opposite. The internal security of the prisons was also asked to be transferred to the Ministry of Interior. Now, in these interim times, unfortunately, such changes are being suggested in other ways, just like now. And now, unfortunately, I'm sorry to say...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0169par0174	What kind of interim? What do you mean?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0168par0175	The period is almost a period of time, and the period is now and then. Unfortunately, the institutions predicted in the Constitution don't do their job, they don't do theirs. Neither members of that institution nor those involved in that institution have been able to retain their duties. Look, now, what do you think the motive is? When you're appointing foreign security, you say: "The main goal of external security services is to prevent convicts and prisoners from escaping." Look, notice that preventing them from firing, preventing outside attacks on the institution. Look, preventing outside attacks on the institution is a very serious thing. You get it from the gendarmes. We go on, it is the protection and safety of prisoners and prisoners outside the court. You say and add that external security personnel are an armed force. You say. Who carries a gun? If you allow every institution, every member of every institution to carry arms in society, then you will arm all institutions. There are institutions that specialize in this. What are these? These are the internal security forces; they are the police, they are the gendarmes. Why do you feel uncomfortable about it, but you're authorizing a new organization to carry weapons? You're authorizing the prison to dismiss any outside attacks, which is not possible. By taking this from you gendarmes, you'll create a weakness in prison security. Why didn't you think of that, the truth is that it's impossible to understand. Now, instead of you taking care of this, you need to reduce the tendency to commit crimes in society. You can't reduce the tendency to commit crimes in society by increasing punishments, changing the execution system. In order to do that, you need to take measures on education, you need to take measures on social problems, you need to take measures on economic activities, because they're all factors that affect crime and crime. You don't dwell on the original factors, but you play with the law and change the legislation to create a staff, maybe to recruit the supporters of state services. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say this is the wrong way, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0170par0182	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th draft of the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose to add the sentence to the Republic's Attorney General's Office to immediately declare the decision to enter into parliament, with the State's Attorney General's Office being notified without delay. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0171par0189	Mr. President, we'd like to commend you with a request for a reduction to change the terms of the motion's decision.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0170par0190	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0172par0191	We'll take you up on the offer of a rewrite.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0170par0192	Okay.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0173par0193	(sing) His decision (sing)
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0170par0194	Sir, is it clear, which is the proposal for the reduction?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0174par0195	The decision to enter into the entity...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0175par0196	▪ The decision to enter into the entity... will be made.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0176par0197	Okay, I'll make the decision.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0198	If you repeat, let it be clear, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0178par0199	Sir, by changing the decision of the motion in the context of the motion in the form of the decree...
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0200	Thank you. With the bill, C. The district attorney's office is placed in a position like the head of operations. In addition to the administrative duty of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the system where foreign security is provided by the gendarmes, the prison administration of internal security, and the judicial duty of the Public Prosecutor's Office, It also eliminates interagency balance and control. If the prison administration and the decision to enter the institution are made, it will be unstable and unsupervised that the Republic's prosecutor's office will be acting as its chief of operations. If the decision to enter the institution is made, there will be a legal conclusion such as the investigation of the Republic's attorney's own actions, which he must investigate within the jurisdiction of the law. The proposal leaves authority and responsibility to the prison administration. I submit the motion to your votes, along with the request for a rewrite: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, 8th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill. Article 1. Adding to the joke, "excessive work and other social rights are paid," 2. We offer and propose that the "intervention unit" in his joke be removed from the article text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Gürkut Acar Muharrem Light Jesus Sky Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article 8 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0179par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0226	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0180par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0228	I'm reading the reason: In this article, the rights and hours of employees who already work in prisons are not suitable for human rights. If there is no radical change in the rights of prison officers employed for 12 hours in the current situation, problems in prisons cannot be solved. This provision must be removed and more constructive arrangements for the working conditions of prison officials. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, 8th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill. Article 1. Adding to the joke, "excessive work and other social rights are paid," 2. We offer and propose that the "intervention unit" in his joke be removed from the article text. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0181par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0238	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0182par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0177par0240	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0183par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I've just told Mr. Minister about the shortcomings of Erzincan, thanks to Mr. Secretary, he sent a note. He says a ringer from the new evaluation will be issued within the month. I hope it solves the problems, of course, the things that are there. Of course, in my speech just now, I specifically said that in the last month, or rather in the last 45 days, there have been 3,500 new prisoners and prisoners. Now, when you look at normal conditions, in 45 days, if 3,500 people are being arrested in this country, there's something wrong with that. And that problem should be considered in a good way. Where does it come from, how does it come from? The biggest one is theft, prostitution, heroin, marijuana, so what's underlying it is that it needs to be thoroughly investigated. Of course, unfortunately, your government's policies are only being studied because it has a mind to lock up those who oppose it and hold it. We have seen the situation of psychologists and sociologists in prisons especially as we visit prisons. The psychologists here are both underprivileged and unable to work as they please because their salaries, their rights are so low, and in their studies, I'll take them as they please. They never display their ability as well as their own psychology, because they don't care enough about prisoners or prisoners, because they're already understaffed, because they're already understaffed, because they don't care enough about the cost of a psychologist on the outside. We've already seen this for years, especially in the last two years: let's take them, let's keep them in, let's keep them in, let's put them in, let's put them back on, let's put them back on, let's put them back on, but then when they get out, we're bragging about doing prisons all the time, because we're putting six beds and 12 beds where there's supposed to be six of them, and you don't care that we're already putting them in here in the shape of bunks, but unfortunately, the sun's not covered with mud. When we see it, you're always doing nothing but assigning women's murders, how much violence, how much prostitution has increased, how old heroin, marijuana users are, how old they are, and how there are no measures against them; the only measure is that you do a lot of prisons and appoint your new aide judges, your prosecutors, and you do nothing but lock them up as they are, and you can't solve problems with that. Now, you come in here, you take a finger of honey, you tell the prison officials, volunteer prisoners, guards, we give them a so-called raise, but unfortunately -- our friends just explained how little it is, and we told you -- you go on the same way. And here, of course, you've removed the treasurers in particular. Yeah, these accountants aren't Reza Sarraf. These guys get paid, too. And they don't have the money to pay the tax on all the money they get there, and they don't have the money to take the interest and donate it anywhere. Now, why are you making such a distinction in prison? What's the sin of counting? Are these guys taking too much money in there? Do they drink the money that comes in because you separate these people? Is that so unfair? This has to be fixed. There are also people living there, and they have families, and they're in trouble, and they're having the same difficulties, and their salaries are certain, and they're no different from the others, but especially, whatever you've served, we think you've taken out the treasurers here; and we think the treasurers should be put in. Of course, there's a warden in prison and other managers. As we traveled through prisons, we saw that the heads of prisons are really the kings, but the principals we call the second managers are unfortunately crushed by both their autonomy and their authority there, and the guards, as I said, are being crushed, their problems need to be solved. Perhaps you'll attract the gendarme to ensure security. Mr. Secretary says the guards won't be put in, they won't be able to provide security, but is there a mindset under which, of course, it looks like an extension of an army of 10,000 people you'd like to bring in earlier? Or when you take these 28,000 people, we need to think about all of them, whether you're going to fill them with allies and try to rule again in the same way. I don't believe this law will be good, but I still wish you well. Thank you, good evening.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0184par0250	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 9th in the current 616 rows. We propose and supply to replace the terms of the article with the unit. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Jesus Gök Aytun Çıray Gürkut Acar Ali Haydar Proposes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0185par0261	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0184par0262	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0186par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0184par0264	Mr. Proposal, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0187par0266	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, we do a new law study every day. One day we say what we say is true, the next day we say what we say is wrong, the next day we say what we say is right; sometimes we forget that there is no other truth, and we don't realize it until now. We're making a new law. From time to time, we do not observe the principle of stability and fairness in the law. The main purpose of the current bill is to improve the rights of punishment and execution guards, which we call the guard, but we do a new study by expanding, by putting in some other provisions. Mr. Serindağ stated that a similar study had been conducted during September 12th, which had been discussed. Now, 29,261 staff members are being assigned to the general management services class because there are further arrangements being made on September 12th. Let's see if it's going to be used properly, or if it's going to be caused by some mistakes, abuses, rights, like the famous auditions or TEOG exams. Will the drivers be assigned? Will it be given to the owners? Had it been given to the owners, we would not have faced many problems today. Dear lawmakers, the improvements made in the subcommittee appear to have been taken back in the upper commission. Because the AKP governments have become statesmen, it has become very good at using state quality, taking what it gives with one hand with the other. Criminally executed officers are also disappointed that their expectations will not be met. Some officials recommend 600 per cent for 300 per cent, and in some cases at 130 per cent for the lower commission, the proposals are reduced to 60 per cent. You can't understand why it's being upgraded, why it's being downloaded. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're looking at a very striking picture. In 2002, there were 59,429 prisoners, 34,808 prisoners, 24,621 prisoners. Today, after twelve years of AKP power, the number of prisoners increased from 34,808 to 134,164. What a shame, what a terrible painting! Who's responsible for this? Why are there so many prisoners in prisons? The total number of convicts, 59,429, rose to 156,707, as of 2014. A lot of misdemeanors and misdemeanors have been subjected to administrative sanctions, and we've been put in this position, even though there have been so many pardonable laws. This is indeed a matter that needs to be considered carefully. Is it because of economic difficulties or because the reforming quality of prisons doesn't work? Who's responsible for all this? We also see a similar painting in the executive bankruptcy offices. In one province, the number of executive bankruptcy agencies increases severalfold, the debtors fall into payability, and the executive officers often rely on the doors of low income groups. Those who created this painting should be deeply ashamed of it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0188par0273	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment of the current 616 rows. Article 3. We offer and propose that the direct statement of the joke be removed from the text of matter. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Faruk Bal Bulent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows, 10 of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. Article 3. The second sentence of his joke is to be removed from the article text, 4. We propose and propose the addition of the phrase "not to be excessive and arbitrary" to come after the phrase "the extent of the challenge" of the joke. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çıray Gürkut Acar Ali Haydar Proposes Jesus Sky Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0189par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0188par0291	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0190par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0188par0293	Mr. Proposal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0191par0295	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies are being extended justice service. On the one hand, access to justice is being difficult. As you know, the courts have been closed in many counties. Citizens travel miles for a small legal issue, especially for legal cases, petitioning and job pursuit are becoming difficult. The ease of access to justice is within the expectations of citizens. In ancient times, organized nahijas had an application authority called the authority for questioning. We think it's very necessary to establish a similar application authority. We've also proposed a law on this, and we hope it's brought up, and our Ministry will make the necessary assessment. In Isparta, the courts were closed at Senirkent, Ulborite, Atabey, and Ghendost.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0192par0297	It's not like you didn't close the door. It's not like you didn't close the door.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0191par0298	A number of arrangements were made, and later the closing of the Son of God was cut off. So let's make the right determination, Mr. Ozer. In that sense, it's another thing to say that it's not closed... it's been generalized on that subject, and then it's been generalized. Indeed, it should be noted that justice is not justice that is delayed, that the sense of righteousness is shaken and justice is quickly established. In the event of the establishment of peace courts, there will be an application authority, and some simple cases can be easily solved. In addition, the upper court of Isparta province is usually the seat of the court of the indictment, but there has been a connection with Konya in terms of administrative judiciary. It is expected of our Ministry to resolve it as well. The members of our criminal execution agencies are being evaluated in the general management services class. These guys are gonna use force, use force, use weapons, suppress negatives in prisons, transport prisoners from one place to another. The fact that such a mission is held in a general management class is counterintuitive, irrational, necessary. If you're going to issue weapons, you can't consider it in the general management service class once you're authorized to use force. Secondly, the gendarme considers the prison to be his most important task, the prison to be his prisoner and his escape. In one place, a prisoner and a prisoner escape from prison is the nightmare of the state's prosecutors, the worst fear of the gendarmes. So in many places, we've also witnessed April 1st jokes with prosecutors on the mission. It's very difficult to transport prisoners from one place to another because given the actions, verbs, the actions of the prisoner, it'll be understood how difficult it is to transport them. It requires tools, supplies, organization. These organizations are not easy. Especially now that some governors can't provide security at their location, we can't guarantee the security of the judge. They say, "They're starving," and the government doesn't do anything about those governors. Prisoners are being tried by being transferred to other locations. Families are also victimized in the same way. In this regard, this organization is not an easy organization. Every traffic rule is a result of long research and is based on a reason. Do not speed up your trip to this practice. Act according to your measure and weight, and let not the prisoners or the prisoners be victims, nor be able to perform their duties. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then you can also face the obligation to provide minimum proportional power training. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0306	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Amendment of the current 616 rows. Article 3. We offer and propose that the direct statement of the joke be removed from the text of matter. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0194par0313	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0314	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0195par0315	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0316	I'm reading the reason: This joke regulates the use of force after a warning to use force. In the event of direct truth in the joke, the application may cause contradictions and unwanted consequences. Therefore, it must be removed from the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 11th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 11th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and offer to add to the joke's content and the expression. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Ali İhsan Kokturk Gürkut Acar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0196par0339	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0340	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0197par0341	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0342	I'm having it read. The amendment aims to remove the proposal clause that authorized the security guard to carry and possess weapons and makes it almost unlimited. The judicial executions carried out by prison officials so far have not been an effective issue of the judicial process. If this clause is legalized, all these judicial executions will be legalized by law. With this wager, it is imperative that this verdict be removed from you. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 11th in the current 616 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and offer to add to the joke's content and the expression. Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with this motion I've submitted?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0198par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0352	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0199par0353	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0354	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0200par0355	I'm Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0193par0356	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0200par0358	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment here to express my views on the motion that we have submitted to Article 11 of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act 616. The 11th article regulates the authority to carry and possess arms for the officers of the criminal execution. Foreign security officers, security guards, they're authorized to carry the weapon, so when they retire, they're authorized to carry it, but the internal security guards aren't authorized. Now, prison death guards are involved in all sorts of wrongs, and they're being punished in some way, and they're in rehab with a lot of troubled people. These people, in their own condition, think that the direct representative of the state is the prison guards, the guards. They think they're hostile to them. That's why there are serious attacks on guards, criminally executed officers. Therefore, the guards who are domestic security guards must have the power to carry weapons -- not inside the prison, but outside -- to provide security for them, and after they retire, they must have the right to carry arms. We all know why that's necessary, but why is it that only outside security officers here, 11, are authorized to do so, especially when they're out there and they're retired, and I don't understand that. Our motion was given in this framework, especially for the purpose of the internal security guards to be able to carry weapons in such a manner as to protect themselves, and I think it could be accepted, in fact, within the Minister's appreciation. Besides, after my last meeting, I got a call from the prison correctional officers' association, and they said, "You say that the monitoring boards should be particularly effective and more competent in prisons." That's what we're saying. We strongly object to the fact that the prison security guards are made to look like torturers. We want to unionize, we want to exist in these monitoring boards through the union, and we want to remove this veil from the prison guards, we want to remove this slander. There may be wrongs in every professional group, but we want to eliminate the image of these violent, torturers. They even gave an example from England. When they attended a meeting, an example was given from Britain: Criminal execution officers have unions, and they made it clear that the state and the state, which is protected there by pressure, and that in the problems between the prisoners and the prisoners that the state is supposed to have, they consider this a very important function and compromise between them. I mean, it's a very important thing to have unions on the watch boards in these prisons, especially the unions that the guards set up. They specifically demand it, and they say: "We are not allowed in the safety class because we have uniforms, but they are not allowed in the union. Either we're in the safety class, or if we're not in the safety class, then if we're regular officers, then we have the right to unionize. That's when you'll see the peace in prisons, the rehabilitation in prisons. They also say that prisoners who have been rehabilitated, employed, should be paid, social rights should be provided, that after they get out of prison, they are fish out of water again, and then they return to prison by committing crimes. They say their social security should be provided, they should be paid there, and they should make a more serious effort to get them into society. These are the demands of the correctional guards. Mr. Secretary, if you take this into consideration, there will be a lot of problems in the prisons if you take into account the demands of our friends -- my colleagues -- as a lawyer. The demands and claims of inmates and prisoners in prisons concerning human rights violations will also be eliminated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying that these should be taken into account, and that the real voice should be heard from those who practice in the main prisons. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0201par0367	Thank you, Mr. Akagun Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first joke of the 12th article of the current Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Suat Önal Orhan Karasayar Ahmet Haldun Erturk "In situations that require interference with firearms, the access to the institution can be taken by the Attorney General at the request of the institution's top supervisor and decided by the Attorney General of the Republic." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 12. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that "other measures are insufficient" be added after the joke. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Süha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk İğla Mersin Ali İhsan Kokturk Gürkut Acar Zonguldak Antalya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0202par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0201par0389	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0203par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0201par0391	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to remove the bidding clause that authorized the security guard to use a gun and made it almost unlimited, setting it as a "shoot order." The judicial executions carried out by prison officials so far have not been an effective issue of the judicial process. If this clause is legalized, all these judicial executions will be legalized by law. With this bet, it is imperative that this verdict be removed from the bill. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 616 rows of Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Bill 12. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that "other measures are insufficient" be added after the joke. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0204par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0201par0401	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0205par0402	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0201par0403	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0206par0405	Mr. President, there are allegations that these recent wiretap decisions regarding the corruption investigation are against the law, and so on and so forth. One: The investigation will take effect on the charge of criminal activity, and if there is a strong doubt, a strong suspicion, which requires that the investigation be brought to trial at the end of the investigation, the prosecution will open this case. The trial, however, begins with the indictment being brought to trial, and there is a department of appreciation and evaluation of the evidence. It is also considered that these evidence were collected illegally or illegally. And now we see that the prosecutor is the boss of the investigation, so the police won't put it together in their own head when they're gathering this evidence. If he's got it in his head, it's against the law. Listening... if the wiretaps were made by a court order, there's no way to say it's against the law. There's a court order. Now, this decision is wrong, it's against the law. I don't mind, we can discuss it. Ergenekon, during the sledgehammer trials -- I've told you so many times from this bench -- I said that just because they've had some form of listening decisions doesn't mean that these decisions are legal. You guys object. Mr. Minister of Justice was then deputy leader of the group, he objected. In fact, there were so many humiliations at that time that they were bugged by the telephone numbers of their phone numbers. We've stated here that it's a decision that a judge has signed a verdict, that there's also a reporter, that there's a court order in the form of it, but it's not in accordance with the law. Now, we said he doesn't have the conditions the law is looking for. But is it proper? Yeah, that's fine, there's a court order. Now, there is no claim that all of the wiretaps regarding the investigation were not made based on a court order. Sir, I'm telling you now, my friends, this was a montage, blackmail, no, it wasn't, it wasn't, and if it wasn't true, then why do you think too much about the destruction of the tapees? Then, the Council of Investigation Commission does not prosecute, the Council of Investigation Commission does an investigation instead of the prosecution. At that stage, he has neither the right nor the right to destroy the people. If this Investigation Commission destroys the files in that file, it will destroy the evidence and commit the crime of destroying evidence. That's a crime, he can't do that. This will only be decided in the process of judging the destruction of illegal evidence. If these files go to the Constitutional Court here, if these ministers are tried in the Constitutional Court, of course the Constitutional Court will decide what will be the basis of the ruling, what will not be. As the prosecutor has no right to destroy those evidence, so no longer does the investigation commission. I have a motion to ask about these illegal wiretaps. At that time, our Minister was President of the Group. The justice inspectors of the Department of Justice's Department of Criminal Affairs have gone and decided to listen, friends, not prosecutors. They've decided to listen to 80 judges through investigators. I don't need to read it for a long time now. Then that's what I said on this stand. Now, one of the wiretaps has become a member of the Supreme Court in recent appointments. 80 Justice Department inspectors were heard by hand, and Sadullah Ergin was Minister of Justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The original illegal listening started from 2008, continued, and the illegal listening continued. So we shouldn't do anything illegal based on motive. I'm warning the members of the Investigative Commission as a lawyer, they commit crimes. If they do that, they'll commit a crime. This is indeed a crime of destroying evidence, a crime of blackening evidence, a crime of eliminating evidence. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0207par0414	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since we have very little time left to work, I submit to your votes that the deadline should be extended until the matter is counted into a vote: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first joke of the 12th article of the current Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends "In situations that require interference with firearms, the access to the institution can be taken by the Attorney General at the request of the institution's top supervisor and decided by the Attorney General of the Republic." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0208par0423	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0207par0424	Government?
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0209par0425	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-07sit04spe0207par0426	I'm having it read. The motion is to increase control and prevent security weakness by entering the institution with a gun even in simple cases, in accordance with the request of the institution's top chief, the General Manager's opinion and by binding it to the approval of the Chief Public Prosecutor. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, since we have reached the end of our working time, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (January 8th 2015) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
