tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Van MP Mustafa Bilici, who asked for a comment on the anniversary of the liberation of Van Province. Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top commitment to the 97th anniversary of the release of April 2 of the invasion of the enemy. I salute your committee. Van, its geographical properties have been a geography that many governments have wanted to have throughout history because of its strategic location. Van had a very ancient past and remained in control of many states from Urartu to the Ottomans, but the invasion of Van and the surrounding Ottoman Empire during the last period of the Ottoman Empire and the looting of Armenian gangs destroyed traces that shed light on the past. Immediately after the Balkan War, our nation faced World War One, where in January 1915 120 children, carrying ammunition to the Caucasus front, were able to walk 80 km to the front in two days, despite the frozen moon, aged 12 to 17 years, but only 22 percent of the 120 anonymous heroes caught heavy snow and type on the way back survived; others were martyrs either on the way or after they reached Van. Van Province is a place where Armenians' activities in Anatolia are seen most clearly until the end of the 19th century and early 20th century. The work of the Komitas here has exposed all Armenian activity to its nudity. During this period, Christian religious leaders and researchers from Western states came to the Van area and conducted intelligence and missionary work here. In the end, Armenians, referred to as the faithful nation for centuries, have been encouraged to rebel against the state. On April 20, 1915, Armenian gangs who attacked state institutions in Van have also set the Muslim neighborhoods on fire. Many Muslim people were attacked and slaughtered on May 14, 1915. On May 18, 1915, a great massacre took place in the city as the Russian troops entered the Van. About 2,500 people from the surrounding villages who took refuge in the village of Zeve were brutally martyred. The first World War and occupations have been a complete destruction for Van, as has been in many parts of Asia Minor. The Armenians have betrayed the Ottoman State by acting with the Russians. Turkish, Kurdish, Armenian, Muslim, Christian, almost every population in the area of Van has suffered loss of lives and goods, social life and economic order here has been corrupted, and the Muslim people living here have been forced to emigrate from their homes because of the incidents. The ancient city of Van, located in the south of Fort Van, was completely destroyed. On April 2, 1918, when the invasion was ended, the people who returned to the city saw that the city had fallen into ruin, and at the same time, they observed that their homes were in an unusable state. The people begin to settle down in what is now known as the land of the vineyards and gardens of the old van. At the same time, the confederates who cut off the past have blackened the future of Van Nah with their destruction. With over 30,000 martyrs, Van, the center of suffering, remained a wounded city for many years. But as of 1950, it began to grow and become a city. As perhaps the most important result of the painful events, we can say that by the provocations of the Russian and Western states, the populations that have lived together for centuries have been opened up, and as a result, this negative atmosphere has been extended to the present day. Learning from the past helps to build the present right and to walk firmly into the future. History must guide people to avoid repeated mistakes made in the past. For this reason, the solution process is another result of Turkey's 100-year problem, a legalisation process that begins as a result of the process of national unity and unity. The solution process is a strong and fair state mind. He says, "Hopefully, we will build a peaceful, tolerant, prosperous city in unity and unity."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Knower. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (Islamic) who wants to talk about the problems of children with leukemia. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the problems of children with leukemia. I salute the General Assembly. When you say "leukemia," many of us think of children with no hair, with masks on their faces, with big, big eyes. But we know that masks that they don't really want to wear, but they're part of their lives, have a different meaning for children with leukemia. Children who have the chance to get treatment have to wear these masks to avoid taking germs from people around them, from the air, from the water. This leads to another bias among our citizens, causing our children who wear masks to think that our patients' disease is contagious. Unfortunately, thousands of leukaemia patients and their families have to deal not only with disease, material improprieties, black market drugs, but also with uninfected prejudices. Mr. President, there are thousands of leukaemia patients in our country who can't speak. In Turkey, many of our children suffer from leukemia every year. Leukemia appears to be the most common two or five years old in children. In our country, which has around 200,000 leukemia patients, it is estimated that 1,500 to 2,000 of our children are among leukemia patients each year. In European countries, the time required for proper marrow to begin and end research is four to six weeks, so we have six to 12 months, and families say the Social Security Agency has caused serious problems with payments. For leukemia patients, only the proper marrow does not result in treatment. For example, the Mediterranean University School of Medicine is able to transport between 30 and 40 children a year, while hundreds of children wait in line. We continue to lose their young lives because of the impossibilities, the blood, the marrow, the organs, the tissue that can't be found or found. Dear lawmakers, leukemia is a difficult disease, however, and the treatment remains an expensive disease. While children struggle to survive in hospitals, their families continue to struggle with financial difficulties. Leukemia is a group of curable diseases. Leukemia is also indicated by experts that it has improved to 85 per cent with good treatment and moral support. Unfortunately, children with leukemia are not among the priorities of power. Therefore, there are significant shortcomings in doctor, nurse, bed capacity, physical conditions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, children with leukemia continue to face various challenges in everyday life. For example, problems that can be extended, such as staying away from school, being left out by friends, thinking that these children have no chance of recovery, thinking that the disease is contagious because of the mask, that children with leukemia cannot participate in social events such as cinema, theater, children are obliged to stay away from the food they love, lack of blood, lack of money, stop work in the hospital because families who want to accompany their children so often are allowed to stay away from work. In addition to the need for the development of the necessary medical infrastructure, there is an urgent need for comprehensive and qualified social awareness and serious work aimed at breaking prejudices in society. Dear MPs, no one will return from the gates of the AKP's government, no one will receive paid health care. This is the thirteenth year of their commitments. During this time, the ministers in the Ministry of Health took a close interest in how many children a citizen would give birth to, whether the blood he took was forbidden or lawful, the woman's abortion, her C-section, but he didn't care about the demand for a vital marrow bank for leukemia patients. I would like to address the Minister of Health and the government, and let's not lose any of our people for lack of health care, cost account, marrow bank for any other reason. He says not to let our children slip through our hands. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0005par0030	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, who wants to speak about the problems of public cooks. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0006par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council. Before I begin, I would like to express my condolences to Mr. Mehmet Selim Kiraz, our prosecutor who was killed in Istanbul's Palace of Justice the other day, to Allah's mercy, to his grieving family and to our nation. I say that terror is unacceptable, no matter where, no matter where, no matter how it comes from, and I strongly condemn it. Dear lawmakers, now, I'm going to come to a different point today, and maybe you've noticed that most of you, and I really care about something, and the public chefs have come to you, and they've interviewed you, and they've told you that they have problems, but it's been a privilege to talk to us today, so I'd like to tell you that we need to listen very carefully and we need to come up with the necessary solutions. First of all, you understand how many of our cooks' problems are really when you're actually listening to them, whose food needs to be prepared in a specific plan, using their knowledge and skill, making them ready to serve in accordance with the rules of hygiene. First of all, since we have to eat three meals a day, we certainly are the chefs of the adventure of soup, fish, vegetables, pastries, sweets, baked, served at our table until we get to our stomachs. The history of cooking, the way they cook now, is based mainly on the methods that the first people have discovered, my dear friends. Before the first humans found fire by chance, they obtained their food by hunting and gathering. The fact that it wasn't possible to hide their food as much as it was to cook it left them compelled to find food every day. After they found the raw food, the simplest way, they put it on a stick and fried it on the fire, so, that's the basis of cooking that day. Cooking today has become a culture. It's undoubtedly our cook friends who develop this culture, make it fit for human health. It is true that those who want to be cooks should be one of those who are interested in food matters, who are physically strong and healthy, who have developed taste and sense of smell, who are clean, meticulous, responsible, capable of planning and practice. All those who have these qualifications have to receive education and training at the Anadolu girls' vocational centres, Anadolu vocational upper secondary schools, girls' vocational schools, vocational upper secondary schools and high schools' hospitality and food technology, kitchen services, and practical girls' art schools, and girls' technical maturity institutes, in the kitchen departments of hotelry and tourism upper secondary schools, in tourism education centers, universities, cooking universities, cooking vocational universities, gastronomy and culinary arts departments. As it turns out, our chefs who give us three meals of presentations have to get a very important education before they turn out to be like this. That's how our trained cooks work with their own means to get into the profession. Either when they apply with the Press Ads Agency or through the Turkish Business Agency, they can find work for themselves, and our cooks who have found jobs work in various public institutions, working in places that we can't think of -- I want to remind you right now -- where they won't come. First of all, in the school kitchen, in the hospital kitchen, in the military kitchen, in the military kitchen, in the workplace kitchen, in the food factory kitchen, in the hotel kitchen, in the kitchen, in the restaurant kitchen, in the ship kitchen, in the plane kitchen, in the train kitchen, in the bus kitchen, in the bus kitchen, and as a public official, many of our cooks are serving as the lowest class in the public, in the service class of services. Now, the percentage of our friends serving in the auxiliary service class is 95%. They want to be taken out of their classes -- their thoughts, their demands -- and they want to be taken into technical services. Which is only natural because cooking is a technicality, my friends. Therefore, it is, of course, the duty of the Assembly to remove them from the class of auxiliary services and to take them into the class of technical services. Maybe we're in the final days of the House, but after this process, the House will have to do a study at the point where these rights will be granted. The 36th article of the State Officers' Law and the 10th article of the Constitution (the Constitution) clearly state the case. In fact, a lot of things have to be said, but in five minutes, if we've been able to say a drop of these things, if we've made a sound at the point of solving their problems, I consider ourselves happy, and I salute the High Assembly with my love. Have a nice day. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Selfwave...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Yemen is now having a civil war and the streets of Eden are filled with corpses. This heavy crisis, first of all, stems from Yemen's internal problems, but in another way, a reflection of the fight between Saudi Arabia and Iran, a power of attorney war. There are many conflicts between Saudis and Iran that these two countries see as life-threatening. Both countries are right about things, things they're not right about. Basically, the conflict stemming from the different interests of the two countries continues in the appearance of a sectal war. What Turkey must do is not to stand alongside the Saudis or Iran, but to stand equally close to both countries, to contribute to minimising and softening conflict issues between Saudis and Iran. That's the duty of Turkey in the Middle East, that's the right policy, but Turkey's outside...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Selfwave. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0009par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a minister behind me today, there's the Prime Minister, there's the government, or there's the most effective institutions. I advise a lot of bureaucrats, who are involved in illegal activities, to return this wrong way immediately. In no time has the trust and faith of justice and law been shaken as much as today; human rights have never been violated by public officials as they have today, especially the justice authorities, who have been violated or victims, have never ignored such atrocities as today. Today's ruling party is ruthlessly attacking anyone he sees as opposed to the anger, surprise, and revenge of being caught red-handed. Remember, the law will be required for those who break the law today, of course, one day. You can't be bullied by cruelty. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0010par0063	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0011par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. It is important for human life between April 1st and April 7th; Turkey is also celebrated as National Cancer Week. Of course, it's important to create awareness, to take the necessary measures. Cancer is the number 2 in the order of known deaths, but another known fact: 90 percent are known to be environmental influences. Industrialisation is the most important factor in Turkey's development, which is uncontrollable and unplanned. I mean, it's possible to control cancer. There's one thing that we've been particularly interested in in in recent years: the five cities in Turkey where cancer is most common are the cities where industrialization is unplanned and out of control, such as Istanbul, Izmir, Kopeeli, Tekirdağ. It's important that...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0012par0071	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, a delegation of members of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyztan, who are visiting our country on the basis of the 1st Meeting of the Environment and Natural Resources Commission (TÜRKPA). I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. New.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0013par0080	Mr. President, I have served under this lofty roof to serve our great nation day and night in the honorable Parliament, the blessed Samsunites, our great nation, 22, 23, 24, 24, day and night. I thank the great Lord, the party of the people, the conscience of the people, the voice of the people, the voice of the homeless, the nation itself, the party of justice and development. I want to thank our party, my Samsunese countrymen, our nation. As part of our Party Charter, I will not be able to be with you under this lofty roof in the 25th term. I wish you the best of luck to lawmakers who will take part in the 25th term. I commend you all to God, and to him I commend you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. New. Mr. Coshkun...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. As we enter the final days of the 24th century, we have had good things and laws in this great assembly for four years, and from time to time we have experienced unpleasant things, but we all know and believe that democracy is the greatest guarantee of the nation, this great Assembly. As the voice of the nation and its representative, the messages from this House will be the greatest guarantee of our country's unity and unity. And in the face of recent acts of terror, a brave voice from this House says that unity and unity will be the most important news for our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0014par0089	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, police detained over 20 students at İstanbul University Akıt Campus. University members who went to the National Security Directorate to meet their friends in custody were also taken into custody by police. 18 students have been face-down as if an inverted handcuff app wasn't enough. It was reflected in the public opinion that the officers in civilian clothes had first pointed a gun at those students, then beaten them, then put an hour on the ground with the back handcuffs, and then slammed them like this, and some of the students were injured. It is said that those who want a lawyer also suffer from violence. The officers who do this unacceptable deed, those who condone it and those who give the order must be punished immediately. Those who approve and applaud this inhumane treatment will answer as much as those who do. This is not a banana republic. If the government does not comply with such tortures that are not part of the laws of the Republic of Turkey, it will never be able to handle the consequences. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Akbulut...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the abomination of the day before, the act of terror, and ask for the mercy of our martyr, the mercy of our nation. On the other hand, I'm not running for June 7th. Therefore, I ask of all my fellow lawmakers who have served together under his roof to be lawful. I give my rights to my side. I wish the June 7th elections would bring blessings to our country, our nation, with love, with respect.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. Akbulut. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. President, our country has recently become the target of terrorist attacks, and we have unfortunately lost a prosecutor in Istanbul. Our chairman, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, visited the judicial community yesterday as both his family and as a president, and expressed his regrets and condolences on the matter. The aim of terrorism is to break down the moral sense of society, improve the unsafe environment. At this time of such sad events, we live in a time when it is very important to act with a common sense of responsibility to terrorism. In case the terrorist attacks didn't meet their goal, we believe it is imperative that all political parties in parliament -- if everyone agrees with the common agreement -- issue a statement and reveal the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on this issue. We believe that it is necessary to be united, to be united, to be united as a nation, in order to increase the security element in society, in order to prevent terrorism from achieving its desired goal. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, would like to request that a joint statement from all political party groups in parliament be issued and that our stand against terrorism be expressed once again, in a much louder and much more clearly, shared with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0021par0108	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0022par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. I demand that the government make a satisfactory statement on this issue, especially Mr. Energy Minister, who has not been able to explain the technical reasons for the long-term blackouts in our country's 79 counties two days ago, and I call it unfortunate. As a second subject, I'd like to express my thanks to you and Mr. Meral Akşener, on behalf of my friends and myself, for your tolerant attitude in fulfilling the parliamentary demands of lawmakers in order to make a brief statement. I would like to think that this exemplary attitude would be an example for democracy, for the sake of the other members of parliament who would do the same in the High Assembly in the 25th term. Again, I wish that the 25th-century parliamentary elections would bring blessings to our country and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are doing the final work of the 24th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As the Turkish Grand National Assembly wraps up its work, I would like to present a problem of the fishing industry, of the fishermen to the information of both the General Assembly and our Minister of Agriculture. I got an e-mail from the Poyrazköy Tulina and the Swordfishing Association. This e-mail probably came to all the MPs. I'm going to share a few sentences with you about this e-mail. It sums up the problems of fishing beautifully, and it begins with this: I address the politicians of our entire country. I mean, it's not just the Republican People's Party, it's all politicians, it's all political parties. Our fishermen rebelled. They're looking for politicians who can save fishmen from bankruptcy. There are 18,000 fishing ships in our country. You need the votes of our fishermen to be in power. Fishing and fishing are over because of the wrong policies in our country. 18,000 fishermen were devastated in our country because of the wrong policies of the ministry. Some of the hunting vehicles were banned for pleasure, some were tolerated. Illegal tuna hunters were tolerated, poachers were tolerated. Our country's interests, our fishermen' socioeconomic situation, were not looked after. The tuna quotas were distributed to three or five people and the organization, and the distribution of these quotas was unfairly unfair. In our country, the production of swordfish and tuna fish is reduced year by year. The production of swordfish was 425 tonnes in 2005, while in 2013 it dropped to 96.8 tonnes. The number dropped from 990 tonnes in 2005 to 551 tonnes in 2013, and Turkey did not get the number it deserved from international quota distribution, the tuna and the tuna quota distribution. In this regard, countries such as Algeria, Tunisia, Libya receive more from Turkey, which is distributed by the International Commission for the Protection of Atlantic Tuna. I am calling from here to our Minister of Agriculture; Turkey must receive its share of international quotas, European quotas. Our fishermen await good news from the Minister of Agriculture. As Turkey's Grand National Assembly wraps up its work, I'd like to call on our Minister of Agriculture to resolve the problems of our fishermen. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. They're presenting to the General Board of Directors. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the reasons for the deployment of Patriot batteries in addition to our country, we propose the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Internal Law. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] [[Malatya]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 18) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 26) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] "If Turkey has a request, we will look positive," NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said on 6 November 2012. In response to his statement, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on 7 November 2012: "We did not have such a request. We're not in the position of getting Patriot by paying for it right now." an explanation has been made. On November 9, 2012, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu confirmed that there was no official request for Patriot, while President Abdullah Gul said on November 13, 2012: "The government of Damascus is likely to use chemical weapons against Turkey. This threat could be countered by NATO's Patriot missiles." The statement was made. On 21 November 2012, our country was reportedly demanding Patriot missile systems from NATO. In a short period of time, such as 15 days, it has been observed that the government has made zigzags about the taking of a decision that is of great importance to both the region and the world and will be a threat of war for any moment. It is important to find out why the decisions made during talks that would affect our country's future have been altered and whether public opinion has been misled. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand that parliamentary research be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, ÜBMI Institution, in order to determine measures to create a search and rescue system that could effectively intervene in such events. [[Antalya]] [[Tunceli]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] 5) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 17) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 18) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] 26) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] As it is known, an RF-E4 Phantom reconnaissance aircraft from Main Jet Base 7 stationed in Malatya crashed southwest of Hatay, southwest of the Mediterranean, where pilots Captain Gökhan Ertan and Lieutenant Hasan Hussein Aksoy were killed. Many explanations have been made following this incident, and it has long been argued whether the plane crashed in Syrian airspace or international airspace. Different explanations about how the plane was shot down, and scenarios such as anti-aircraft bullets, guided missiles, and blast effects have been on the agenda for a long time. Finally, the General Staff shared with the public that the plane had fallen under blast. Some experts also say that these missiles should be accessed by shrapnel fragments that were severed at the time of the explosion, as well as information that the potassium chloride compounds, which are thought to be the main material used in missile fuels and harp caps, should be accessed. It is also said that the potassium chloride particles would melt in the sea water, thus not be found in the parts of the aircraft that were removed from the sea. It is suggested that the plane may have fallen due to a lockdown on its control computer. In order for these allegations to be investigated, an objective inspection and examination must be carried out so that doubts can be dealt with in the most healthy way. The TBM's study will contribute to the resolving of doubts. Turkey's lack of search and rescue came to light after the plane crashed. The funerals of the martyr pilots and the wreckage of the plane were not reached for long, and then, with the support of a foreign country, funerals and debris were removed from the sea. It is clear that Turkey must have manpower and equipment to intervene effectively in such situations. For these reasons, Parliamental research is required to determine the reasons for the crash of the plane that was dropped off the Mediterranean coast, the proper information of the public and measures to improve the search for rescue. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Teachers who have no purpose but to train and bring their student to society are attacked almost every day in different parts of our country. Sadly, these attacks sometimes result in injury and sometimes death. As soon as the schools opened this year, a female teacher of ours in Izmir was killed by the attack of a student. Only on the first 15 days of November, a teacher at Mush Anadolu Teacher High School was subjected to violence by the parent. The teacher of Aydın architect Sinan Industries School of Professionals was injured by the attack of his student. He was stabbed by a 17-year-old student who taught electrical electronic technology at the Technical and Industrial School of Technology in Kütahya. Ahmet Sami of Deniz was beaten by a math teacher at the Good Middle School of Mathematics. ==Early life==In Samsun, the teacher of literature was stabbed by his student at the Trade and Economics School of Anatolia. In Sivas, the class teacher serving at Gemerek Yurek Yurer Özcan Middle School was beaten by police officers serving in the district. Reports of violence against teachers are reported to the press almost every day. Our teachers who have suffered physical and verbal attacks on students, parents, do their duty without safety. Students with knives, parents with sticks, terrorizing schools, threatening the safety of our teachers. The Ministry of National Education has nothing to do with it. Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer is putting them in a difficult position with his statements instead of taking care of the teachers. For most of our schools, for lack of funding, there are no reliable measures. This causes violent students and parents to easily reach out to teachers and hurt them. All these issues are not seriously considered. Schools are supposed to be safe spaces, our teachers' safety must be ensured. All necessary measures must be taken to stop the violence against teachers, school administrators, educational workers. Teachers must be restored to the reputation they have lost. The Ministry of National Education must become a ministry that owns teachers and educational workers and protects and protects them. Research and prevention of the causes of the violent tendencies of students and parents will also result in the end of this process. Children who are subjected to violence in the family are also prone to violence and may harm their teachers. The ministry must also do a study on this issue. In order to determine, identify, and resolve the reasons for the violence against teachers, we respectfully submit that a research commission shall be established under Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105 of our Civil Code shall be investigated in all dimensions. [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 4) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Balıkesir]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tunceli]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Human Rights Review Commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The petition commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, was the head of the delegations; 1. Italian House of Representatives President Laura Boldrini and Italian Senate President Pietro Grasso, President Maria da Assunçao Esteves and Albanian National Assembly Speaker Ilir Meta for the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly to attend the Conference of Parliamentary Chairs of the European Union for the Mediterranean Parliament, respectively, Presidents of Parliament for the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly II. To attend the summit of Portugal, South Eastern European Countries II. On official visits to Albania to attend the General Assembly, the 9th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620 2. Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, and 3620, on the matter of Akça Nurberdieva's official visit to Turkmenistan to respond to the event's invitation. In accordance with this, it is presented to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit02spe0025par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0025par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (02/04/2015), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. On December 04, 2014, the group was awarded 1145 rows (1145 rows) by Idris Baluken, deputy chairman of the group. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of the disabled who constitute an important part of the community should be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and read in the presentations Thursday (02/04/2015), and the talks will be held at the same date. In favor of the proposal, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0026par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in a country of 78 million people, I have taken a pledge to investigate the problems of the disabled, which constitutes about 13 per cent of our population. I salute you all. The problems of our disabled are so big that now our disabled have to choose hunger strikes to make their own problems public, to make their own voices heard. We are here to warn you on 28 March to be the voice of 9 million disableds on the day and hour when Parliament, or rather, spoke of the President's covert grant. The disabled carried out a 24-hour hunger strike with its slogan. If the disabled in this country have to resort to such a way to get their problems to their authorities, they are not disabled; it is the mechanism that prevents them from solving their problems. Therefore, the slogan "You are the Engel" that they've long preferred is based on the mode of this situation. Now, to draw attention to this problem, to draw attention to the problems of our disabled, and to express their demands here in some way, to be a bit of an interpreter to their demands, we've submitted this Parliament's motion to investigate. We hope that all of our MPs under the House of Parliament will show a high sensitivity to the resolution of these problems of our disableds and take some minor steps to address their problems. Now, we're talking about the problems of about nine million people. What are their demands? For example, a very simple request from their demands: we want to use our freedom of travel. We want to get out of our house without anyone else needing us, so we want to be able to move around the market. Make public transportation a match for it, they say. We don't need an extra legal arrangement for that. There's a legal arrangement within our legislation to remove this distress from our disabled, but there's been an obstacle. The implementation of that appropriate legal arrangement is always postponed; it has been postponed again, debated last year, and the commissions have been postponed by the size of implementing the implementation of the regulation of the public transport tools for the design of those vehicles in which the disabled can easily land and ride. Who put it off? By God, it's been postponed by the ruling party's votes. In the Plan and Budget Commission, we fought about it, so don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, do it. Whatever laws are in the interest of society -- I mean, people -- are suddenly on the agenda, instead of creating a financial burden. And when we discussed the Homeland Security package, that came up, that came up. What did you do, for example, when we discussed the Homeland Security package? You've erased 63 of the benefits of society in one night. But for your benefit, you got the stuff out of the fight. To do so, you did not recognise the Civil Code, you did not recognise the law, you did not recognize the regulations. You took out what was good for you in one night. You drew the provisions and regulations for the benefit of the community into the Commission and removed them from a draft text, from the package. He's basically deciphering what you want to do or what your way of working is, what your direction is towards, but at least we're hoping that anyone who hears the voice of your conscience will show sensitivity to the problem of the disabled, and we're hoping that they'll be able to do it without a party difference. Now, you've made a legal arrangement. You've made such a legal arrangement that, if even a second-rate relative is working in the family, the allowance for the disabled in need of home care has been cut, and I don't mean salary, it's a grant, you've cut it off. Suppose the first-degree relative of a disabled person -- his brother, his brother, his father, his uncle, whatever -- has to be based on the disabled as an individual; you have to provide the disabled with a condition that can sustain their own life without needing anyone else. Putting such a thing into the law has been both unjust and unconscionable. This needs to be removed. It is one of our basic tasks to provide human conditions that will sustain every disabled, especially the disabled, on their own. We call ourselves the democratic, social law state to flatter ourselves as far as we can. That's what the social government is for, if they can take care of their disability, if they can take care of their old man. These things need to happen; these possibilities need to be available. Let's look at the working conditions: the current legislation, including the state, does not apply its own disability operating requirement anywhere, anywhere, the way the law dictates, nor does it apply work quotas for disabled persons in private sectors or in public or anywhere, nor does anyone apply them from the municipality to the holding company. In order for this to be controlled, the House must seize it. If he doesn't take care of the disabled, this House is literally a disgrace. We've brought up this fundamental problem of our disabled in this recent, recent work of the House so that we don't carry this shame on us. If you're in, we're ready from yesterday. Our proposal for the law stands here. Parliamentary Presidency transferred it to the Plan and Budget Commission as its main commission, and transferred it to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission as a commission. It's a ten-point law proposal. Let us make this law together, and this shall be the last act of the 24th term of the House. If the commission is invited to work today, we can complete its work within three or four hours, and by Monday at the latest, we can legislate it without putting Congress on vacation, and we'll have a little bit of a solution to the problems and problems of our 9 million people. If there's a government, if the ruling party has it, we're ready, our bill stands here. It was given a month ago. I assure you, we have a more pressing problem than any problem you've brought to the agenda of the House. If we've forced our disabled in this country to go on hunger strikes to express their rights, to speak their own voices, I swear to God, if that's a shame, it's the ruling party's first. We have to free Parliament from this disgrace. It is imperative that a research commission be set up for this. We're hoping you'll support this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0027par0027	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Against Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0028par0031	Mr. President, before I speak, I ask God's mercy on our prosecutor, who was killed by an attack the other day, and my condolences to his relatives. Again, as of yesterday, I condemn the attempted attack on our Istanbul Security Directorate, and that hand incident. I also wish for immediate healing for our cancer patients in Turkey due to the National Cancer Week from April 1st to 7th. Dear friends, I have taken a personal oath on the People's Democratic Party's motion to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the problems of our disabled citizens and to open a parliamentary investigation. I also salute the High Council. Yes, disability is a very important event. None of us should forget the idea that we might be disabled tomorrow. Therefore, I say we should value the average 9 million disabled populations in Turkey very much, and it is very important to have a small genius service to the disabled, regardless of which party it comes from, no matter who it comes from. And I thank those friends of ours. I congratulate everyone who contributes in order to bring the disabled to the attention of the community, to eliminate their problems, their troubles, and the obstacles in their daily lives. Of course, in this context, I'd like to point out that as our party, we care about the disabled very much. Until 2005, in Turkey, during a period of the existence of the Republic of Turkey -- a step has not been taken about the disabled. The First Law of the disabled in 2005 is an expression of how much we value them. In fact, in seven years, we have witnessed the taking of all the steps that must be taken, especially by local governments, municipalities, and other public institutions. Was that enough? It wasn't. But I would also like to point out that in 2012, we postponed this Law until 2018. It has been increased by between 200 per cent and 300 per cent per month under the Law No. 2022, which is either unable to work or unable to find a job. I, now, would like to make a brief statement to you about the disabled, as well as what our government is doing: For the first time, it is covered by all disabled care services that are in need of care. The disabled have been paid for maintenance services provided at home or private day care centres. All disabled persons in need of special education have moved to private education and rehabilitation centres for free. The entire share of the employer's share of the insurance premiums for disabled persons employed in protected workplaces has been paid by the treasury for 50 per cent of the share of the employer's share of insurance premiums for the disabled who are working more than a quota. The developmental measures and incentives of disabled employment have been envisioned. Early retirement is granted to mothers who have been granted optional early retirement for disabled persons working on their own behalf, with children in need of care. The gross 200 square meters of homes owned by disabled persons are exempted from real estate tax. The dwellings are made easy for physical arrangements for disabled persons. Criminal sanctions have been introduced to discrimination practices against disabled persons. A very important decision for employment has been made for our disabled brothers, especially in public, private companies, private sectors; this number, which was 5,700 earlier in 2002, has been raised to 30,000, 35,000 today. Is that enough? Of course not. There's a lot more to be done. We want to highlight the need for more of these disabled brothers and sisters to be employed in certain places. A project has been launched with the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and COSGEB co-operation in order to ensure that disabled persons can stand on their own feet in another dimension of disabled employment. Of course, it was intended for them to be involved in the labour market, to be strengthened financially and socially. A grant of 30,000 TL was provided by COSGEB for appropriate applications. The disabled students who have started moving for free and continue to attend formal or private education institutions have been given a free home-to-school service. With fixed investment support, up to 70,000 euros in twenty-four months has been supported up to 70,000 euros, with an upper limit. A monthly home care application has been started, and certain fees have been given to one of our disabled brothers who are in need of home care. Again, the home care allowance for those who are unable to take care of themselves has been offered for their relatives, and families who have previously been hidden in their homes have started to take advantage of it a little bit. For the first time, the creation of the Turkish sign language system is also among our work. Major contributions to major cities have been made today, and it is imperative that every public road, sidewalk, pedestrian crossing, open and green areas, sports areas and other social-cultural infrastructure areas and buildings be made in line with the use of disableds to remove obstacles to the social life of the disabled in major cities. The KPSS system -- the KPSS system of the disabled -- has provided an employment of 35,000 people, as I have just mentioned to our friends. With the absence of night shifts and shifts for disabled officers, the hours and periods of time for the disabled officers have been arranged differently. Again, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled, the first and only binding international document, and the main axis of the fight against discrimination of the disabled, was signed in 2007, especially in our day. Finally, in 2010, the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution established that the measures for the disabled would not be considered contrary to the principle of equality, and the disabled were guaranteed positive discrimination. Dear friends, there have been various studies that can help disabled people vote. It is also intended to provide new opportunities for the protected workplace system and the disabled employment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Turkish Employment Agency (İSKUR), which is developed infrastructure by the Finnish Employment Agency (İSKUR), and the disabled employment. In this framework, it aims to defend the rights of disabled persons, develop infrastructure for disabled employment, increase the number of businesses and activities that enable vocational rehabilitation. Dear friends, with increased disability employment, active participation in all areas of social life is envisioned; protective, preventive studies have been conducted. Again, UNICEF signed contracts to co-operate with UNICEF for a study of child poverty and disability, a campaign in the field of early diagnosis and intervention, and a convention with international participation. The concept of the situation has been changed, the apology has gone away, and the concept of those who are not bound to hurt our brothers has been brought into existence. Projects have been prepared with disability support programmes. Human rights and disability information seminars, projects have been organised and informed. In fact, there's a lot more to be said for time, but I want to make it clear that disabled people are very important to us, and they always need to be remembered. No matter what party he's from, any friend of ours, who's going to cause a problem with these disabled people, I thank them all, I believe that their rights should be protected, I give them respect and love. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0029par0060	Thank you, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0030par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0029par0063	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0064	Mr. Orator presented some non-real data when giving it to him; I want to correct it according to the Civil Charter 69.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0029par0065	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0068	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm not interested in making evaluations of each other in these conversations where we address the problems of our disabled. So I took the covenant according to the Civil Charter 69. Mr. orator, speaking here earlier, it's as if the AK PARTY government has created an impression that the disabled solve all their problems, that's not true. I just did. Why, for example, did public transportation not allow our disabled to travel? This problem stands in your era, postponed by your votes. There's an arrangement for the proper fitness of public transportation, there's a legal arrangement, yes, but why do you keep postponing the application clause of this harmony? You have an explanation to make here. Second: Now there are regulations in Articles 7 of Social Services Law 2828, Articles 7 of the Social Services Act, and Articles 10 of the Social Services Act. It is the provision for the care of the disabled and the elderly who are in need of home care. But here you have brought the poverty requirement. How do you eliminate poverty? If a person in that family receives minimum wage on a regular basis, you assume that the disability care problem is solved, that's not true. Now, you brag, but if a minimum wage worker works under the same roof in the family, a first or second-degree relative, you turn your back on the problems of the disabled as a state, the disabled in the family. Now we point to that, we point to that. Do you know what a hearing aid costs, Congressman? You know, you know that very well. Is there any way a minimum wage person can get a hearing aid or a prosthetic to use?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0032par0073	Yes, I do. I do.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0033par0074	Social Security pays.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0075	Social Security doesn't pay, they don't. People in need of home care have problems. What are you giving me? Your minimum wage... so let's say you did. What is it you're giving me? It doesn't amount to a third of the minimum wage, but it's about $400.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0033par0077	Well, that wasn't there, either.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0078	Yeah, well, now, there weren't that many disabled in the old days. Are our disabled populations increasing? It's increasing. Are their troubles, their problems increasing? It's increasing. We say we solve these problems. These problems, yes, we all have in common. These problems aren't the problem of any party, they're everybody's problem, we're saying we should work it out together.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0033par0079	We agree, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0031par0080	I thank you, too. I hope you'll show sensitivity.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0034par0081	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. In his favor, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party's Party's motion to investigate, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, in favour of you. I salute you all. In one country, the amount of resources and services offered to disabled persons are directly proportional to the level of development of that society. When we look at Turkey, we see that this assessment is accurate. The resources and services for disabled persons are not enough, and therefore our country's development is low. Let alone the opportunity and the service, the number of disabled people living in our country, what are their problems focusing on, what needs they need, not even a statistical research to do so, friends. TÜİK last published disabled statistics in 2002, 2015. In 2010, a study is being conducted called "Investigating the Problems and Expectations of the Infirmities," which includes disabled individuals registered in the National Retarded and Older Services General Directorate -- about 200,000 registered disabled individuals registered in the Data Table. According to this study, people with vision, hearing, speech, orthopedics, mental, mental, emotional or emotional disability, or multiple autonomys are 14.3% working, 85.7% not working. The level of dissatisfaction is around 66% about whether the physical environmental arrangements in the area where disabled individuals live are compatible with the use of a disabled individual. And when it comes to the needs of disabled citizens, it's just a need for treatment, care, medicine, and feeding. But what we need is what they need, and it's not limited to what we just counted. I'd like to give you an example, we had a daughter who wrote a letter to the president asking for perfume, a gift. The gift is a 30-year-old brother with cerebral palsy. His father wanted something from us one day, but he couldn't tell us what he wanted. Three months later, we found out he wanted perfume from us. We fed him, cleaned him up, thought he was fine, but he wants a woman and perfume." he says. Yeah, well, you have to look at the situation through this window. It's just that there's no way we're getting anywhere by feeding our disabled. Dear friends, at the meeting with the disabled representatives, there were 11 articles that were agreed upon, and I'd like to count them to you. One: the managers of the disabled association say: "There is social assistance for the disabled. The basic duty of a social government is to provide social assistance, but don't let welfare be used as a tool of exploitation. We're honorable individuals, let's not play with honor. We already receive welfare benefits from the state budget, so it is not right to talk about abuse. Again, we're already working under difficult conditions, trying to survive on salaries. Since my state is a social state, since the Constitution is a social state of the Republic of Turkey, let it be written that the associations and confederations should be helped from the budget under objective conditions. So that we may know that the social state is with us. Again, as disabled people, we cannot move freely through the cities. We simply cannot participate in the city's social life. The cities have come out as uninhabitable elements for us. However, we want to ride public transportation, taking advantage of the city's social life. There was a law on this issue, which the municipalities would have done, but the municipalities did not do so in a certain amount of time, they say. As my deputy mentioned, it was postponed to 2018. It seems again that the municipalities will not fulfill their duties in this regard. The mutual demand of our friends is to impose severe sanctions on municipalities that do not make cities habitable for disabled people. They say that we are on disability, but we are not on equal terms. A monthly description was made. ▪ The definition of neediness is a source of honor for us. Call it the monthly month of life, and therefore let us know that we have this right because we are disabled, not proportional to our incomes. If that happens, the social government will do its job. We want to work in business; we want to have jobs, we want vaccines; we want to live without anyone, we want to be insured, we want to work. There are certain quotas defined by the law, but it is said that both the private sector and the public are not being used enough, that empty staff are still waiting. These staffs need to be used, and more importantly, the working conditions for the disabled need to be appropriate, and they need to be appropriate, he says. For us, there are good laws coming out of Parliament, and we are happy, but then we see that the rights that the law provides for us in practice are greatly restricted. They say, "It means that these restrictions must be eliminated." Again, the disabled must be trained in better conditions. Education institutions, educational institutions in this regard, especially private educational institutions, need to be strengthened. Also, it's important to learn how to boil. If the society is to grow useful individuals, the state must carry out its mission, which unfortunately is not being fulfilled, dear friends. Mentally disabled people have much more serious problems than other disabled people, and their families have to take care of them. It's even a human demand: we have funerals, we have weddings, we have weddings, we have bitter and sweet days, at least we should be able to leave our mentally disabled children, we should be able to leave them there, we should be able to share our painful and sweet days as part of social life for a few hours, says NGOs. They want extremely human demands and these demands to be met especially by municipalities. The disabled say that going to the hospital is one problem, and being treated is another problem, but at least not because of health care and medical services and aiding equipment. We're already having a long-term problem, so let's have a little more positive discrimination, and they don't want to be taken away from us. ▪ Obtuses should also be involved in politics. That's good, you're coming here to talk. It's called politics. You're telling me, but we're disabled in parliament, and we want to address the problems of the disabled ourselves. So if you can do that, then political parties against the disabled will also fulfill their duties. Finally, my dear friends, the cases of the disabled. We sue from time to time, we seek rights, but court fees are so expensive that we find it difficult to prosecute. It's not just the individual, it's the associations. Lawsuits against disabled persons must therefore be exempted from tuition, they say. Precious friends, valued lawmakers; really, the disabled in this country have very serious problems. We're a serious society with 13 percent disability. About 7-7.5% in Western countries. First, we need to find ways to eliminate it or reduce it, and we need to be in the work and effort to bring the best service to those present. Our dear friends just told me that we made a legal arrangement in 2006. It doesn't matter, it matters how it works. Law enforcement can be made, it can always be done, but these...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0036par0107	There's a lot going on. Come on, there's a lot going on.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0108	Dear friends, look, the disabled citizen was retiring in 1,800 days, and when you were in power, you raised it to 3,600 days. I'm sorry, you guys did this, nobody did this.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0036par0109	The mentally retarded children are taken from their homes, taken to school, and paid for by the caretaker.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0110	When it comes to voting, we see it in election time, we go to schools, he can't use the game. Let him go, I'm a member of Gaziantep, he can't go to the mosque in the Southeast Anatolian District and in my district, he can't go to the mosque because there's no such design. Unfortunately, we need to discuss the problems of the disabled very seriously. Yeah, isn't there stuff that's done? It has to be done. A law state should take care of its own disabled, its own citizens, there's no problem here, but what's this law that's been postponed until the year 2018, folks?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0036par0111	It's being taken care of, it's being taken care of, it's being taken care of.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0112	Who put it off until 2018? Has the opposition postponed it? The Republican People's Party postponed it? Did the HDP postpone it? Did the MHP delay it? Who put it off? You guys put it off. So if it's true, why did you postpone it? Why did you pass this law and delay its execution?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0036par0113	The work continues.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0114	Dear friends, I'm sorry, no matter how you say it, it takes a step to solve these people's problems.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0036par0115	We've taken too many steps for them, too many steps for them, not one step for them, but 100 steps for them.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0037par0116	That's a lot of steps.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0117	We're not talking about this for nothing, we're telling you this. People say... look, I've read to you, I've read to you in 10 articles, 11 articles, these are demands, you'll meet them, that's the MP's job, we have to do them. Dear friends, the citizen says: I can't go to Camia and worship, I can't go up the stairs, I can't go up the stairs in a wheelchair. You'll have to do it, you'll have to do it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0038par0119	Okay, that's how new ones are gonna be made, old ones can't be destroyed and new ones can't be made.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0035par0120	Hopefully, there will be a period in the Republican People's Party where all the problems of the disabled are solved, all their problems are brought to light. I salute you all and support this offer. Now we'll see who raises their hands and who doesn't.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0039par0123	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Against Chandırı MP İdris Şahin... Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0040par0127	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. Of course, there has been a motion to establish a research commission in the framework of our Constitutional Court for the development of the issues facing the disabled and of the permanent policies facing them, especially in the areas of accessibility, employment, health and education, in order for the public to be informed of the problems that are one of the most important elements of our society. Of course, the study, the study of these problems, the work of a comprehensive study can be viewed as a very reasonable, righteous request. Of course, we have nothing to say against such a motion. I'd like to point out from here that we're ready and open to any reasonable and reasonable proposals. However, due to the Parliament's work agenda, especially past studies on these issues, and the fact that elections have come closer and that Parliament probably has not been able to work outside of a work day or two, I would like to share with you what is generally done about our disabled, what needs to be done, and what kind of arrangements should be made in the future process. Of course, our dear orator friends have made it very clear here that our disabled are experiencing problems in life. I thank the spokesman of the Democratic Party of Rights and Mr. Ismail Tamer Bey, representative of the EC PARTI, as speaker of the Republican People's Party, as well as Precious Mehmet Şeker Bey, who lists his thoughts and the demands of the disabled, because it does not suit us as representatives of Parliament to do politics on this when he is disabled. After all, the problem with the disabled is the problem with its power and opposition of an entire Parliament. And we need to take all kinds of actions that need to be taken together, and in the process, I can express in particular that, in terms of the past, very serious steps have been taken at the point of solving the problems of our disabled during the AK PARTI administration. Mr. Ismail Tamer counted them as biatihi, and again, I would like to share with you some of the data I received from his speech notes because his time was short, and what was done during the AK PARTI with our disabled did not fit into a ten-minute speech text. So, Mr. Sugar, of course, we take the most important steps together. At the point of the adoption of these laws, I assure you, our opposition is not being stingy, they are always supporting these laws offered by power in Parliament. When it comes to disabled people, when it comes to improving the quality of our people's life, we always have a union of harmony and cooperation with their opposition in Parliament. At this point, we thank everyone who contributes. In particular, we have recently received a very serious support for our disabled under the name of the management costs. From the start date of this support, there will be a total of 12,000 euros in total, with a non-refundable amount of support for business costs, a total of $1,000 per month, and measures aimed at preventing the creation of net wages, work space rents, electricity, water, heating, telecommunications, work-placed fuel costs for products, services, machinery and equipment for production purposes, to address problems with the law will be reduced, facilitate payments, and measures aimed at preventing the creation of repayment and refunds. All of this is a very important support from our government that our people and the disabled are in need of, in some way, troubled by their financial resources. Again, citizens who benefit from the home care services that we refer to as corporate care will be able to take care of private day care if they want to take care of them from the state. We pay these organizations as much as 2 net minimum wage per month for each disabled person. As of January 2013, we covered the maintenance fees for our 9.749 disabled in 150 private care centres. And in the future, hopefully, we'll make every effort we can to provide for them as the AK PARTI government and government. Again, promoting maintenance services in accordance with our government's Action Plan, developing alternative service models, boosting quality of service and disability prosperity, meeting the social and psychological needs of our disabled, increasing accessibility to the service, as a government, is one of our priorities as the EC PARTI government. We express it every time. Hopefully, we're putting them through practice to the disabled. Again, a new model has been implemented in maintenance, and the House of Hope Project has been presented to the services of disabled citizens during our rule. As of January 2013, 23 hope houses were offered for our disabled to live in an apartment or in a private home with their other neighbors. Right now, 27 hope houses are under approval. Hopefully, we think of it as our power to spread them throughout Turkey at every sale. Again, one of the things that our disabled wanted most was accessibility. As it is known in 2005, all of the buildings that were open with the law of the disabled, open roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports and other social and cultural infrastructure areas, and public transport services, in order to fit the accessibility of the disabled, are now under law and will continue to serve our disabled at various points of the country. Again, as part of the Accessibility Support Programme, particularly as part of the NDEP Programme, which is important for the disabled to fully and equally participate in social life, and as part of the 2012 Accessibility Support Project, which is designed to ensure that the structured environment is uninterrupted, primarily being my constituency zone, Burdur, Kilis, Mardin and Rize are serving as project managers of the Special Administration project, and our disabled are expressing to us in our election areas that they are very satisfied with these services. Again, it has allowed our disabled people to benefit from special educational support from individuals who had previously taken advantage of the USSR and the Retirement Chest, and from individuals who are not subject to any social security institution, to benefit from private education services for all disabled citizens. At the end of 2006, the number of students studying at private education and rehabilitation centres was 82,952, while as of July 2012, there were 245,829 students receiving special education benefits. Many more of the services that we can count here, of course, are designed for our disabled, and have been enforced by law in some way. However, here, I would like to state, in particular, that when it comes to looking at the full picture of all of us when we are disabled, we act under the awareness that we are obliged to make legal arrangements in accordance with the wishes of our disabled citizens and especially in matters they desire from us. But as of today, I've been discussing the motion to investigate, saying that we can't possibly be against such a motion, but there is a three-day parliamentary work, given the Parliament's work in particular, and then everyone will go to the electoral districts, and we will not be able to vote positive for this motion as the EC PARTI Group, which I respectfully salute.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0041par0142	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0042par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0041par0144	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0042par0145	Mr. President, I'd like to put it on the record. Parliament's working time is not formed according to the ruling party's timetable. The Parliament, held on June 12, 2011, is in charge until June 7, 2015. Therefore, two days later, the ruling party does not end the parliament's working period because it will take the parliament on vacation, and the parliamentary term is not over. According to Article 105 of the Parliamentary Civil Charter, there is sufficient time for such a research commission to be established and to submit its report to Parliamentary Presidency during its mandate. All of us, yes, are entering the elections, but as an opposition party MP, the ruling party has expressed to a motion that is not opposed, but in a very kind manner of speech, both of whom have expressed the problem and what they can and cannot do, in the rules of politeness. Since they're sincere, we're running for office, just like them, but as a congressman, I'm here to state that I'm a candidate for the commission, and that I can waive the election...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0043par0147	What if you don't run for congressman?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0042par0148	But I'm calling them to investigate the problems of these disabled, hoping they'll keep their word.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0043par0149	What about Tuesday, Tuesday?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0042par0150	As a member of parliament, as a member of parliament preparing for the election, I hereby declare that I am a candidate for this commission. Let them have it. Let's build it together.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit03spe0044par0151	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Point taken. I put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (02/04/2015), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The proposal to open a general meeting on April 01, 2015, with the number of 6251 and the presidency of the TBM was proposed on Thursday (now) by reading of MP and İzmir MP Oktay Vural to our national and spiritual values, preventing this destruction and protecting national and spiritual values. In favour of the proposal, Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0045par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I will begin my remarks on behalf of the National Party for Action on the motion that the destruction of the nation over national values should not be our cause for social destruction. I hereby salute all of you with love, and pay my respects to all of my dear citizens who are watching us on their television right now. Dear MPs, folks, by chance, are not a whole set of values on the history stage with ordinary events. Over the ages, the savings, various experiences and sufferings have a very serious contribution and impact on the creation of values that make those nations a nation. When it comes to the Turkish nation, when it comes to the state of the Republic of Turkey, when it comes to us as a matter of essence, the expression of the values that make us who we are and the elements that contribute to the formation of these values, I suppose, as a Turkish nationalist, and then all of you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, from the pain or experience that we've had over the centuries, in our national and spiritual lives for over a thousand years, the great religion that will make us happy in the presence of God in our national and eternal life, is the name of the change and transformation that Islam has made in us, nationalism, but those who can't say that they belong to that nation, who can't say that they belong to it, who can't claim honor and pride in our nation for over a thousand years, who can't bring the values of that nation beneath their feet. But it's a pity to be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, to have a say in the historical heritage of that nation, and to use the resources of that nation as an instrument of abuse, to have the same meaning as having the values of that nation, and to your appreciation. Dear lawmakers, in the course of our lives today, if Islam and its active hopes, its elements, keep us standing for centuries, keep our heads high among the nations, make our children after us able to live as human beings, we need to investigate the reasons for this. As members of the Turkish nation, we are the children of a noble nation who have sacrificed what we believe in to win the blessings that the beca world will bestow on us. I am Turkish and Turkish nationalist to be able to live with it, to present the common value of humanity, and to eliminate the chaos and turmoil that humanity has fallen into. Dear lawmakers, Turkish nationalism -- which will take us centuries -- has been destroyed in the first place by the family agency, and has become a threat to our future. In the water we drink, the food we eat, the family council and the food we eat, the village streets we walk around in, and the values that make us who we are in the room, will also be a means of salvation for mankind after us. But the family institution that we're living in right now has collapsed, humanity has become each other's throats, the father's enemy to his child, the mother's daughter has been ignored. This is what kind of nation, what kind of state, what kind of a way of acting as a guide to humanity, I offer your appreciation. Mehmet Akif was saying: "We have taught people what humanity is, we have taught people what civilization is. But come on now, if we have come to a situation where we are trying to take the guidance of others in the name of mankind, and we have suffered from our humanity and closed our hands to our faces, is there no responsibility for those in power? Is it possible that among the elements that have destroyed the family institution, the threat to the family institution today, a society that has become violent enough to reach incest, morally degraded, what your mother is, what your father is, that the child is an essential part of the world's life, that a human being would be left in a state of weakness after that?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0046par0023	You're not yelling, you're not yelling!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0045par0024	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm shouting for your ears to open. For four years, I have been a member of the Turkish Republic of Turkey's Parliament working to shout out this voice, to maintain the values of this nation, and to keep this nation alive for the rest of its life. As long as you don't live with those feelings, you can't provide and prove your feelings for this nation. Aren't we today responsible for the plague of young people who have been condemned to live under bridges because of alcohol, drug addiction, drug addiction, loss of human dignity, the loss of human dignity, the loss of human dignity? See, those of you who suck up to the televisions that you call RTÜK, to ensure only three days of world domination, have become the institutions that put dynamite at the root of this nation with the pride of their elders. How can we live in peace in the House, in peace, in a country where our family has been destroyed, and so has its friend, and so has its friend, and so has its friend, and how can we express that this nation is its true representatives? Dear lawmakers, from the moment we are turned into the deceased, if this roof collapses, we'll all share the same pain, we'll all share the same plague. Now, look, you passed the 4+4+4 law. If you do not teach God, he does not teach the Prophet, he does not teach the law, he does not teach the right, he does not teach the right, he does not teach the parents respect, he does not teach the father whether the property of the state should be unlawful, and you do not teach the people that theft is forbidden, you cannot serve them if you bring not four chapters together, but if you bring 14 of them together. The students you've raised, the programs you're running, they're trying to test the difference between theft and corruption, they're trying to distinguish which is the property, and they're trying to get a fatwa from the ordered professional fetishists to benefit from them. Isn't it a shame about all this? Isn't that a shame? Isn't it a shame about the elements of this state, this nation? Dear lawmakers, if we're talking about violence in our family, women who were murdered on television screens every day, mothers who were humiliated under bridges, sisters who had been reduced to rags, that's not because of us, is it not because of us? I ask you: Do you make a lot of laws, you combine them, you share them, you agree; can you say that for the sake of this state, we passed one law?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0047par0028	We're telling you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0045par0029	Can you be sincere about this, and can you be sincere about it? But, look, if this nation were to teach humanity what civilization is yesterday, you might have to go to the bottom of history today as those who share that plague and withdraw from the arena of humanity with disgrace. He invites you to be you and to be the true owners of the Turkish nation, and in the June 7th elections in 2015, Allah calls on this nation to elect good trustees, and I extend my love and respect to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0048par0032	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. Against you, Amassian MP Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0049par0036	Mr. President, dear friends, Mustafa Hodja gave such a hot speech that I almost couldn't stand still. But I've actually had a lot of witnesses about these hot talks in the past, and at different times, I've listened to the heated conversations of different environments that contradict each other. In this country, like Mustafa Hodja did, but not in the same line as him, and sometimes in the opposite direction, you see hot talks. It's not possible for me to establish social unity in such a language, to bring people together, to keep the mind and the heart together. I think the language that will bring people together should be a more reasonable language that appeals to their hearts but also appeals to their minds. And this language, you could call it a language of negotiation, you could call it a language of speech, you could call it a heart talk, where what was said and what was said was no longer meant as a perpetrator. We really need this kind of talk. Popper published a book called Life Is Problem Solving. It's the right thing to say: there's always problems in life, there's always problems in societies, and people try to solve them. The most important working institution, of course, is politics -- with every occupational institution dealing with it -- because it's the political institution that has the most profound impact on societies that has the most impact on their lives. Mustafa Hajji told me about finding people's rightful owners. In fact, if he rubs his eyes and looks more carefully, he'll see that people find their true owners all the time, because our nation has a mind, an eye, a conscience to find their true owners. If we're saying otherwise, then we think people are doing it wrong. When are people gonna do it right? People will reason: When he chooses me, he will do it right. Let the people choose. Everyone's talking about themselves in democracy, people are choosing. Dear friends, national and spiritual values are important, but there's more need for intelligence than speech on what they are. Now, for example, the flag is a common value. Do we know the date of the flag?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0050par0042	Is there a flag left to know the date?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0049par0043	He was first accepted in 1844. There's no common flag before that. Second accepted in 1936, after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. So it's a date. We call it the Stystallal March. This nation of ours, which flows from time to time, has not always sung this Istrillal March. 1921; before that, there were anthems. I mean, people, nationalism, national government, they're history. If we don't talk about these things in a rational, literary and scientific way, we can't solve the problems that we're having with just the hammock. What's the point? It's solving society's problems. What's the point? To ensure the unity of this nation. Look, it's the AK PARTY that makes the most radical change in Turkey. Why? Dear friends, if there's a guardianship structure in a country, the most characteristic of that guardian structure is to break the link between social reality and political power. That's what custody is for. Why else would he be a guardian? There is no linear proportion between what society demands and what it desires and what the elites see as appropriate for society. They hit the head of society, and they say, "You don't think well, you do wrong, we know right, brother, and we run the country in this right direction." That's the basic feature of the guardianship. Social engineering kicks in. THE EC PARTY, by ending the custody structure, has established a genuine link between society and politics; it is not imaginary, it is not the porter; it is really what these people think, how they see the future, how they see the future, how they want political decisions, how they want them to be made. It's very important. Second, while the national and spiritual structure that we're talking about is broken, the reality of those political relations has changed, while the values that live in society also connect with politics. Because politics isn't just a decision-making process on material resources, it's also about moral values. The end of the guardianship of the EC PARTY also allowed social reality to dominate politics. See, one of the most important names of the conservative environment is Said Halim Pasha, who knows eight languages, who wrote a book called "The Depression," which the conservatives usually know, is a very wise man, who served in a very clear period. Said Halim Paşa says: There is a very important difference between the West and the East: Westerners see the reality of the object, they reason on it; the Orientals first imagine it, they don't want to change their minds, they want to change the reality of the property. Look at the reality of people, who do they represent? Who represents the nation? Who are the people supporting? Now, can we say that this nation, this Turkish nation living in the Republic of Turkey, has not found its rightful owners? Can we say that this nation has a flaw in its national values, its awareness of nationality, its sensitivity to nationalism? No. So, who do people support, who does they bring to power, who does they support? Our nation contradicts itself? Of course it doesn't.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0051par0050	He can be cheated. Even Mr. President says we've been cheated. Anyone can be deceived.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0049par0051	Who's the conflicter? The form of reasoning that cannot connect the imaginary world in your mind to the real world contradicts itself. Dear friends, we're against racism. We're against racism everywhere because racism is the idea of a hierarchical world and humanity is more than racist. But being a nation is a reality; it's a reality of modernity, a historical reality. People give people a sense of belonging and identity. But here we have problems, all over the world, not just us. National states mean that the nation and the state are incompatible, dear friends; nationalists need to know that very well, the nation and the state are incompatible. So, who is the nation and how will it match the state? Nowhere in the world is a state covered by a particular nation, and nationalism has been doing this since the 19th century: "Smoke and vomit" is a French anthropologist; he tries to assimilated it by swallowing it, and he vomits it into a population exchange. Where there's democracy and freedom, you can't swallow or vomit. What do you do? You'll make up. You make peace with people who live in your own country, their identity, their culture, whatever. One of the most important things that the EC PARTY has done is to act in a direction that will ensure the peace of social reality in order to make this nation a partner in fate and in the future. He created the atmosphere of peace, so to speak, by involving the environments that politics, which the guardian structure blocked, called regression and separatism, which he pushed out of politics into legitimate politics. We have no other way, no other way. All over the world, nations have to apply for peace and interference in democracy and freedom to continue their journey. If you say it's another way, then it's despotism. Someone takes the stick, and says: "You are all of this nation, do you object?" Who can object? If we are defending democracy and freedoms, there is absolutely no approach to these issues, dear friends, outside the line of the AK PARTY. Please, let's discuss these matters with my sanity, a hamasy language is not enough to resolve these issues, to understand them, to promote social peace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0052par0056	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0053par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0054par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0052par0059	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0053par0060	Mr. President, since I couldn't see them by mentioning my name, they made a mockery of me for rubbing my eyes. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to exercise my right.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0055par0061	I told you to see everyone, Mustafa Hajji.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0052par0062	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0053par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, a eunuch is an expression of things that are not true.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0056par0067	That's what you do.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0053par0068	As a member of the National Movement Party, I do it on the basis of sincerity to the values I believe in, but whatever it is that you can envy, come and testify here; it's one. Second of all, I'm not making a eunuch now. Has our moon-star flag, the sign of honor of the Republic of Turkey, been taken down or not, by those of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the Republic of Turkey? Well, about this download, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is the current President, should know his place. When he said, "This soldier should know his place.," did he not say, "This is our direct order, he will not draw a gun at him?" A second issue: the Republic of Turkey has experienced the events of October 6th and 7th. I ask you: did the curfew, which you declared in October 6th, lead to the release of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) or to the release of the Turkish people who wanted to protect their honour, their property, their lives? And another thing I'll tell you, dear lawmakers. When the PKK-based MPs said they were from atheistic tradition, Mr. President, they were not from Zarathustra, they were not from Islam. When you said, did you or did you not discuss the fate of a people who were nearly 99 per cent Muslim? Did you or did you not make them their representative at the negotiating table? What is the Turkish Republic that has been destroyed here, not the Turkish nation and the Turkish country that has been destroyed here? Dear lawmakers, you have no right to pursue a number of media and different forces behind you, to corrupt the Turkish nation, to compromise its value, to embarrass them of their own identity. This nation is not divided into 36 pieces, nor is it divided into 36 pieces, no matter what position you are able to keep yourself in, no matter how you might be able to adapt yourself, but this nation can not be classified as Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Alevi, Sunni, or Sunni. This nation is a Turkish nation, a whole, a divisible piece. Do not attempt to divide or divide the Republic of Turkey by its means. Because don't think that the glory of our ecdad is marufu jihan/fitrate is changing, it's still blood. He says, "I salute you all."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0057par0074	Thank you, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0058par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0059par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0057par0077	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0059par0078	The AKP's Deputy President of the Group has just mentioned that both custody and nationalism are equivalent to racism. So, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0060par0079	I didn't say that. I didn't say it was the same as nationalism and racism.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0059par0080	You're tied to the same thing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0060par0081	I never said that.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0061par0082	But that's what we understood, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0062par0083	That's what we understood, Hajji. It's how it's understood.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0061par0084	That's how he got from there to there.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0063par0085	On the other hand, the speech he's making is here, drawing in a different direction the nature, shape and target of our proposal. That's why I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0064par0086	I promise. Mr. Bostanci, you...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0065par0088	Sir, I don't want a word, and I don't see anything to say, but the statement that we violated the Turkish nation is an unfortunate statement.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0066par0089	It's a book!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0065par0090	He knows how to behave the Turkish nation, what to do, who to bring to power, and how to purge the entrant accounts. Let's trust the people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0067par0092	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0068par0093	Well, that's an obvious tease.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0067par0094	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0068par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll tell you about the flag first. As you say, there is no flag issue in the 1840s, much earlier. Look, they all have flags, including the Damsels, including the Skystalks.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0069par0099	He mentioned the law, Hodja.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0068par0100	First of all, a sacred value like the flag represents the nation. Don't give me any false information on that. The moon star flag exists even in the sky.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0070par0101	I mentioned the Flag Law.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0069par0102	He mentioned the Flag Law.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0071par0103	There is no common flag. He said, "Look at the report."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0104	Now, if the powers that some of the people have chosen have all kinds of powers, and they are representatives of democracy. If you say so, Hitler had chosen Hitler as a nation, but he showed a government that was purely racist. You're talking about custody, you think you're destroying custody; rather, you've created a guardianship yourself. Rights and freedoms have been wiped out at this time, both on trial and on the press, because of your guardianship. You should know that first. On the other hand, how far can national values be related to racism, but you're here to talk about racism? I mean, how can you call it racism by denying the existence of the Turkish nation? The Turkish nation...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0073par0107	We say we're against racism, we're against it. Aren't you against it?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0108	Anyway, there's no one here to say that you're against racism. But nationalism is to have national values, language, religion, culture, traditions. If you claim that national values haven't been eliminated, how many women's murders have there been in your administration, how much child molestation and murder has there been, how much drug addiction has increased, how many percent has it increased; first consider these.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0074par0109	Corruption has increased, corruption, corruption has been legitimate.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0110	What stage has the family sense reached? How long did divorces occur in the family? How much has the corruption increased, and how much have its values reached? If you're saying that national values and related issues have not been removed, they've become the best form in our time. If you're saying that they've really become the best form in your time, they've reached the highest level of drugs, divorce has reached the highest degree, child abuse and murder has reached the highest degree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0074par0111	Corruption, prostitution...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0075par0112	Corruption...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0113	Other than that, as many national values as there are... the flag has been lowered, the soldier's head has been bagged, the land has been abandoned. I mean, what more do you need to know if you have national values or not? You're here, you're supposed to say the opposite, you're holding it, you're talking in front of this thing, for God's sake! Now, you're saying...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0076par0115	They have left their homeland, Hodja, their homeland.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0116	That's what I said, you left the country. I said. But, believe me, your commander-in-chief will rise to the Supreme Court tomorrow for high treason, just because of the abandonment of the land, you will see this.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0077par0118	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0078par0119	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0120	You'll see it, you'll see it, you'll see it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0078par0122	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0123	Come on, there's no way. Losing land, leaving land, treason...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0078par0125	Commander-in-chief of 77 million, you still haven't learned.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0072par0127	You'll see what happens, you'll see.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0079par0128	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. In favour of the proposal, Istanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0080par0135	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a motion on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the destruction of our spiritual values during the AKP period. Congressmans, the AKP has damaged a lot...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0081par0138	He hurt you most of all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0080par0139	...has done a lot of damage to the values of the Republic...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0082par0140	What value did he damage the Republic, what value?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0083par0141	Religion, religion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0082par0142	We took care of religion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0084par0143	"Writing is not a crime," he said.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0144	The law has done a lot of damage, it has done a lot of damage to human rights, it's driven humanity to the ground, it's destroyed humanity, but the AKP has done the most damage to religion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0086par0146	You're the one who causes the worst damage to religion, you have no idea.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0147	The AKP emptied the great Islamic religion, put dynamite at the bottom of the AKP, struck religion. The AKP's biggest blow was religion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0087par0149	You're doing it, you're doing it!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0150	You will say, "What are these? These are: God alone is untouchable in the religion of Islam; but if anyone does not believe, let him look at the 23rd verse of the House of Enbija. God says I'm the only one there who can't be touched, but the AKP people say we're the ones who can't be touched.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0088par0151	We're not saying that at all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0152	Are you Allah? Glory be to Him!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0088par0154	Yeah, what kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0089par0155	Oh, don't be so hard on me! What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0156	Don't you have any fear of God?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0089par0158	Fear God...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0159	Don't you have any fear of God? When immunity was only in Allah's sight, you were covered with immunity, and you cleared the four ministers without trial here.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0089par0161	Mr. President, invite him to a clean language.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0162	There is no exoneration without trial, no history of Islam, no history of humanity, but for the first time, you have performed the act of acquittal without trial.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0090par0163	Yeah, he's gone crazy!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0164	May God reform you. May God reform you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0091par0165	May God make you better.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0092par0166	May God set you right, but your recovery is unlikely.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0167	During the AKP period, the theft was considered lawful.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0091par0168	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0169	You called the bribe a gift, you called the bribe a gift.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0093par0170	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0171	You said God, the Book, the right to an orphan. Religion, you've covered corruption with a veil of faith, you've done evil in the image of Rahmanism.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0093par0172	You're getting sloppy. Come on!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0173	It works even if it's the opposite of our faith. You've created absurd perceptions like that.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0093par0174	You're the one who's being evil, you don't know it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0175	See, a congressman of yours, on December 17th, said that the freedom to commit sin has been hit. Freedom to sin... the sinner will be free, why do you do this? You have brought such a system, which will not be free. May God reform you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0094par0176	May God make you better, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0177	Look, a minister of yours said that some of them are trying to raise and...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0094par0178	Look, your man's here, Hajji!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0179	Look, look, do you know what one of those four ministers said? What did one of those four ministers say? My country should not be so naive as to think there is no corruption. What more do you want? Look, your Prime Minister's chief advisor just said a few days ago...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0095par0181	Calm down, calm down!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0182	In recent research, 70 per cent of voters who voted for the EC PARTY believe there is corruption, says corruption. Look at the palace, the palace! Look at the palace, it's a waste of credit. It's a waste of credit.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0096par0184	People's palace.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0185	If Muhammad were alive today, and Muhammad, who was sent as a mercy to all the worlds, lived, he would not enter it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0097par0186	At least remember the name of the Prophet.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0187	There's a ban on that palace. Why? Because it's a waste, it's a waste. Now, what did he say then? What was the first person to build a palace? He was the deputy, the deputy. What he said to the deputy, Abu Zarr al-Gifari, if you built this palace with the money of the nation, you are a traitor, and if you made it with your own money, you are wasteful, and wasteful, and forbidden.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0098par0190	People's palace.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0191	Now, see, in our people there is a saying, that lies and faith do not stand together. Do you know that you're doing a job that's the hardest job in the world, trying to stop lying and believing together?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0099par0192	You're the exception.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0193	Look what you said: there was drinking at Dolmabahçe Mosque.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0100par0194	Calm down, calm down! Why don't you take it easy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0195	▪ My veiled sister was molested. We have the footage, we'll announce it on Friday. You said. It's 90 Fridays, why don't you explain? Do lies and faith stand together?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0101par0197	It looks good on you, you do!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0198	Here you are, trying to make a lie and a faith together.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0102par0199	How do you have it?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0085par0200	The fear of power has passed through this country, the fear of God. You put the fear of power before the fear of God. That shame is more than enough for the AKP. Look, what does a journalist say? He says there are two kinds of media in Turkey. One prostrates before the head of the king, not before God, but the other before the bow. Yes, I also work in the media in the sky. Oh, brother, come on! It is God who is made to bow down and to whom He bows down. Do not prostrate yourselves. Don't! You can't handle this. Allah will question you concerning it. Do you know what happened in your time?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0103par0204	How did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0104par0205	How are you?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0105par0206	Yeah, well, look how you're doing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0106par0207	Did you come with the primary?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0104par0208	We have a choice. Come with me, make the pre-election. Come, let's make an election with you in Düzce.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0210	Adultery abounds, the building rises, the land spreads. I mean, your three words are famous. In your time, the most famous of all is adultery, ritual and building. Now, you've stopped adultery from being a crime.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0108par0211	How did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0104par0212	How are you? Come, let's make a pre-election in Düzce. Come with me.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0213	Do you know what the late Erbakan would say to you if he were alive? He used to say, "You, you, you!"
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0108par0214	You, you!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0215	Look, look, you blew up the whore, the whore. In ten years, sex work went up to three floors.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0109par0216	Teacher, are you following them? Wow! Pity!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0217	According to police reports, the number of prostitutes increased by 1.680 per cent during the 13-year AKP period.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0110par0218	Well, weren't you the one who taught these people to commit adultery?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0109par0219	Teacher, you didn't make it clear.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0220	Did you stop adultery from being a crime for yourself? I'm asking you about adultery: Did you commit adultery for yourself, AKP people? Why did you stop adultery as a crime?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0109par0221	We didn't get him out, the Supreme Court did.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0111par0222	Did you talk about it when you were a mufti?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0223	Look, in your time, drugs went up, drug abuse went down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0111par0224	Did you talk about it when you were a mufti? You son of a bitch!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0225	You've reduced the age of drug use to elementary schools. Look, in 2004, the number of people who were admitted for drug abuse was 1,517, 218,515 in 2012.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0111par0226	Tell me how you became a deputy.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0227	You know, today, almost one in every family suffers from depression and depression pills.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0111par0228	Give me back your salary, give it back.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0229	Allah will question you concerning it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0112par0230	Teacher, you'll need more.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0231	Look, in your time, you've doubled interest, you've transferred 600 billion to the interest lobby.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0113par0232	Did you say that when you were a mufti? Sin, sin!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0233	Your Reis said that your headman, by God, is now making market interest his own, making it mature.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0113par0234	Did you talk about that when you were a mufti?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0235	Have fear of God, for you have mixed usury with God.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0114par0236	Are you afraid of God?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0237	Then you mixed Allah with usury.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0115par0238	You've become a representative of religion, haven't you?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0239	You have come as Aaron, and have become like Korah.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0115par0240	You've become a representative of religion, haven't you?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0241	You've turned religion into a dinar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0116par0242	Speak without reading, without reading.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0243	You've become rich yourself, you've made the people poor. First you're a mujahideen, then you're a contractor, now you're available for anything, anything!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0245	Get off your fucking feet! Go, go, go!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0246	Look, look...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0247	You were a muft before...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0248	Look at this bear, this bear, this bear: Do you know why you dismissed an imam in İzmir? Our mercy will overcome our wrath for his criticism of his word. Are you a god, brother?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0249	Watch your language! What kind of a mufti are you? Aren't you ashamed to talk like that?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0118par0250	Prophet Abraham, shut up and don't shout!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0251	His mercy is beyond His wrath. You exported the imam that criticised it, exported it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0252	For fuck's sake! What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0118par0253	Ibrahim the Prophet...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0254	May Allah reform you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0255	May God set you right. Us, you, everyone.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0118par0256	The prophet Abraham......
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0257	Look, look...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0258	Shameless!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0118par0259	Ibrahim, the Lord...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0107par0260	During your time, another deputy of yours just two days ago...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0261	What kind of talk is that? Look at the mufti's mouth.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0118par0262	Ibrahim, don't shout.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0263	Here you go, dear.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0119par0264	Just two days ago, a deputy of yours said: "Of course there will be rotten apples in us; and there were rotten apples in the army of the prophet. Who are you, the army of the prophet? What could be more unfortunate than to compare the AKP people to the army of the Prophet? Look, look, in your time, you dressed the pig in sheep's clothing, and you included the pig in animalry, butchery.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0117par0266	Türkan said Saylan's funeral prayer and became a deputy.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0119par0267	Look, the answer to my motion for a question is...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0120par0268	Speak without shouting, without shouting!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0119par0269	366 people went to the hospital because of the pork. If you feed the people of Islam the flesh of swine, may Allah set you right! Look, you know what happened during the AKP?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0121par0271	AK PARTY, my dear!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0119par0272	You also increased your game of chance, and you became third in the world. So, you take thousands of precautions, and as for the workers, you say, "God's will."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0122par0274	Horses run at night, Hajji, horses.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0123par0275	You've never raised a human being.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0119par0276	In your futhra...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0124par0278	You give back your mufti wages, back.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0125par0279	Teacher, you have a call from Copperville. God bless you, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0126par0280	Teacher, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0125par0281	Take a breath, take a breath.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0127par0282	You've got dynamite at the bottom of your religion. May Allah reform you. (H.P.) See anyone who wants to look at the "Bravo" or "Bravo" or "Bravo" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam" or "Belam."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0128par0283	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0127par0284	Have you no fear of God? Have you not feared God? Who are you, Lord Abraham?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0129par0285	How did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0127par0286	Who's your brother, who's Muhammad? O Messenger! Let Allah set you right! A heathen man, a heathen man, a heathen man!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0130par0288	Sir, the CHP is calling from Copperville.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0131par0289	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0132par0290	How did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0133par0291	How dare you insult me? How dare you insult me?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0132par0292	How did you become a deputy? How did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0133par0293	You have disbelieved in what you say, and you have disbelieved in what you say. I don't honor the heretic, the belam. No matter what, you're a heathen!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0134par0295	Sir, the People's Republican Party is looking for you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0135par0296	You're such a mess!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0136par0297	Please, just calm down. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0137par0299	Sir, the speaker, the speaker, the speaker, said, "Are you a god? Are you a god?" He made a very heavy taunt of our group as if it had claimed a holy presence.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0138par0300	Let him answer Abraham, or let him say, "Taiyab is worship." Let him say, "All the qualities of God be upon you." Let him give it to you!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0136par0301	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0137par0304	Mr. President, my dear friends, sir, as far as I know, they're mufti.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0139par0305	What teacher?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0140par0306	What teacher, what teacher?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0141par0307	Is that you, Mr. Ahmet Yeni?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0142par0308	Are you giving me the document?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0143par0309	Please be quiet, this is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0310	My dear friends, if he gave such talks to his congregation as a mufti, there would be no congregation left in that mosque.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0145par0312	I don't have any left.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0313	I'm sure he did his duty in a terrible way.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0146par0314	This isn't the congregation, this is the House, it's the people, it's the people, it's the people.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0315	Because no one wants to talk to a language like that. As the gentleman spoke, I thought of a German proverb.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0146par0316	Again, stop philosophy!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0147par0317	And give me a Turkish proverb.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0318	Now, my teacher's sermon here is not really a religious sermon. Although it may seem to be published in religious concepts, its main sermon is political enthusiasm and an expression of applause from the bleachers. Religion is the color of the work.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0148par0319	He spoke the truth, the truth, lies, corruption.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0320	Religion is used here as an instrument of political enthusiasm.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0149par0321	Bravo Master, you're doing a good analysis.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0323	What can a fellow mufti -- I've told you before -- tell people by yelling and punching the table?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0150par0324	And you can't explain it quietly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0144par0325	If you think you're telling the truth, you should also tell it nicely. I've come to complete good morality. Isn't that what the Prophet says? For God's sake, what did you see in the speech of the dear speaker here about a religion that came for the completion of good morality, the Muslim profile he meant?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0151par0327	Ethics spoke, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0152par0328	You're talking about morality.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0153par0329	You're gonna appreciate it? Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0154par0330	It's a speech that's always screaming, punching the table, insulting people.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0153par0331	So, now, you appreciate him, too.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0154par0332	Indeed, I find it embarrassing that such talk is also adorned with religious concepts based on political enthusiasm, rhetoric. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0155par0335	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0156par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0155par0337	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0156par0338	Mr. President, Mr. Bostancı made a statement in his speech stating that Mr. Ozkes used his description as a means of religious political exuberance, and that if he spoke to his congregation in the time of mufti, there was probably no one left in his congregation, and that his remarks on this matter were inappropriate. Now, this is a serious taunt. If you promise, I'd like to answer him in a few words because of this bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0155par0339	Now, this teasing, you...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0156par0340	I mean, I want to explain to Mr. Ihsan in a few words, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0157par0341	I want a word from myself because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0158par0342	Mr. President, did you promise me?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0343	No, I didn't promise. That microphone doesn't seem to be here, so who's talking?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0158par0344	Mr. President, I'm speaking.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0345	You, who? I can't see.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0158par0346	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0347	Mr. Original, we didn't turn on that microphone. I don't know how it opened, technically, so I don't know about that. That's not how I promised you. Mr. Original, if you have any requests, I'll listen to you later. But I have no idea how that microphone turned on, and it doesn't show up here either. Now, Mr. Sky, you want to answer because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0160par0349	I, on behalf of our group, would like to respond to a conversation.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0350	Sure, go ahead, instead, as a group...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0161par0351	Mr. President, I want a say in this, because I've been insulted, so I want a say in this.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0352	I'll also consider your request. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0355	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are here...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0159par0357	Please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0358	...there has been corruption in this parliament. There have been injustices in this parliament. Everyone who says, "There have been bad omens in this parliament will surely speak enthusiasticly. " Excitement is an art of politics. Why don't you object when your former Prime Minister says it's an art of speech about the violence of political speech, but why do you find it unfair that our muft, our teacher, our MP stand up to a rebellion? Is that a thing? You've used religion in every field.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0163par0359	What did he just do? What did Mr. Ihsan just do?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0360	In 2006, 38,000 people were treated for drugs, 260,000 people applied for treatment in these last days of your rule. How did those rates go up? I thought you guys were religious, spiritual. What happened? The numbers are terrible, my friends. This is prostitution, this is drugs, this is gambling. In drinking, my dear friends, the drinking has not increased as much as the drinking in your time. Any excuse you say has been removed.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0361	Let's get it up, let's get it up; come on, come on.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0362	I mean, of course, this is...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0363	Come on, look, let's get this drink up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0364	You shut up, sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0365	Let's get this drink up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0366	Sit down, your group vice president will answer me.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0367	Come on, talk if you're brave.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0368	This is the seat of the House. He's talking to every nation who talks here with the authority he gets.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0369	Don't talk like that. Don't lie.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0370	Against injustice, against immorality, of course the Republican People's Party will raise its voice.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0372	Come on, let's get this drink up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0373	You're confusing religion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0374	Come on, let's get this drink up. Look at me, at me, at me.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0162par0375	Yesterday a prosecutor was killed, my dear friends.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0376	Hey, look at me, at me, at me.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0165par0377	Sit down, Ibrahim. Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0166par0378	Please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0379	Come on, make a motion, come on.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0166par0380	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0167par0381	The other day, a prosecutor was killed in a terrorist attack. The president will go to his family's home to pay his condolences, messages from all AKP agencies will go to the president's condolences. Come, make multitudes. Where was this seen? You don't allow even a dead man's condolences, even a martyr's. You're gathering crowds to advertise to the president. That's where you make a genius martyr political material. That's morality? Is that what religion is? Is that what faith is? We're going to shout it out here, too.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0382	You, you...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0167par0383	Of course, we'll scream. We'll shout, you'll listen, our nation will decide.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0168par0385	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0386	You advocated homosexuality.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0169par0387	Sit down, Ibrahim. Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0388	You defended homosexuality here.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0170par0389	Sit down, sit down. Sit down, you have a group vice president.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0390	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0391	You defended homosexuality here.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0392	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0393	You defended homosexuality.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0172par0394	Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0395	Mr. Korkmaz, please, just take it easy... sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0396	You defended homosexuality, you did.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0397	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0173par0398	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0399	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0400	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0164par0401	You advocated lesbianism here, you advocated homosexuality!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0174par0402	Look what you've done!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0403	Mr. Korkmaz, please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0174par0404	Sit down! Sit down, your group vice president is here!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0175par0405	Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0171par0406	Mr. Korkmaz, please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0175par0407	You're defending homosexuality here! Your Scholarship Congressman defended it!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0176par0408	Shut up, shut up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0175par0409	You're talking shamelessly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0410	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0176par0411	Who are you to talk to me like that?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0413	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0176par0414	I'm not letting anyone talk, I'm not letting anyone talk, I'm not letting anyone talk.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0415	Mr. Sky, please, take your seat.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0178par0416	You're defending homosexuality here.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0176par0417	Shut up, take it easy.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0419	Please... Please... Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Congressmans, remember this is a General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0179par0421	And you know your fucking place! And you know your place, who are you to tell me...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0423	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... This isn't a place to rush anybody. Please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0179par0425	Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck are you?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0180par0426	Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0427	This is a General Assembly. Please... Please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0181par0429	Mr. President, look over there.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0431	I'm looking all over. Please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0182par0433	Shut up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0177par0434	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you very much... to act according to the General Assembly's code.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0183par0435	Who the fuck are you? Actress!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0184par0437	Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0185par0438	You advocated homosexuality here.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0184par0439	Come out, come out, come out.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit04spe0186par0440	I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0186par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations on the nationalist movement group proposal. Against the proposal, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0187par0009	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I have made a pledge against the nationalist movement group proposal. I salute your high council. The reason for the group's proposal is that nations and communities maintain the national, moral, and moral values they have. Actually, that's true. When we look at it in a similar way, it's the nations that sustain power, it's the nation's gratitude, and it's the support of the nation. If we look at it this way, the EC PARTY has survived and survived with the nation's gratitude since it was founded. Our party, which has united with its nation in a way that has earned the nation's gratitude and has led the nation's way since it was founded, has claimed the national and spiritual values of our nation, and it is its duty to claim them. In this sense, when we look at it, our power is working from day one to day to raise a youth that depends on our national and spiritual values. In the same way, it has established our Ministry of Family and Social Policy to protect our family, which is the basic values of our nation, so that our national and spiritual values can be preserved and worked in this sense. Another issue is that he has claimed our national values, not only in the country, but in the country, but also abroad, he has taken possession of our ancestors, our cultural assets, and he has taken great care of their restoration. In this sense, when we look at it, we see that over the last 12 years, restoration studies have increased about 90 times. It is our duty to maintain our national and spiritual values, power, opposition, all of us. It is our duty to protect these and such works, to keep our youth, and to introduce our youth to our national and spiritual works, our values, again power, opposition, to all of us. I say it is our duty to uphold our history, our culture, our customs and customs, and I say it is also our duty to claim our country, nation, state and flag. It says that it is the duty of all of us to maintain our national and spiritual values, not only in words, but also in essence, to try to keep them alive, that our valued group president has made detailed statements on the matter, that I will vote against the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0188par0015	Thank you, Mr. Husband. I submit to your votes the National Party of Action Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 02/04/2015 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, members of the group, İstanbul MP M. Akif Hamzacebi, Sinop MP Engin Altay and Ankara MP Levent Gök's motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation on 17/03/2015 to determine measures to be taken by a company close to the government in illegal ways that were seized by TMSF. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Thursday/04/2015 and held in the same dated combination of its talks. On the other hand, Congressman Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0030	Mr. President, lawmakers, I'm starting to think that what happened to the BMC, Turkey's domestic land transport brand, today, is a research proposal to investigate corruption and irregularities that have occurred during these events, and that at the end of this discussion, we're going to share them with you, and at the end of this discussion, you're going to support this research motion of ours. As we said, we're talking about the BMC, which is Turkey's only brand of land transport, and its largest client is the state, the army of the Republic of Turkey, and the municipalities. What does he make for the Turkish army? He produces secure armored vehicles, produces fire extinguishers and buses to municipalities, and he continues to produce them, but in the time of economic distress. This company belongs to the Çukurova Group. It was confiscated by the TMSF due to a $440 million loan from the Çukurova Group. In fact, there's only 75 million dollars left of a $440 million loan left unpaid. What did he do for this 75 million-dollar unpaid part? TMSF confiscated this company. Of course, he confiscated a consulting fight. If you look at the events at the point where the company's debt is being dealt with after the TMSF has seized this company, or at the point when TMSF takes over, you will find it very easily as a political scenario. On May 18, 2013, the ECS again seized television with the BMC company, including TV, Show TV, Show Turk and Showmax. The operation, on May 18th, again seized the Turkmedia Corporation on May 24th. The Turkmedia Corporation includes TV and radio channels such as the Evening newspaper, the Sun newspaper, Skyturk360, Lig TV, İZ TV, Digiturk Euro, Digiturk Euro, Turkmax, MTV. So the operation is so successful that they're taking care of who they're going to serve these television stations and radios first, and then they're going to confiscate them through TMSF. Of course, the company that's going to buy them, the company that's going to buy these media outlets that I'm talking about, it's going to have to do some damage because these media outlets have been damaged; it's going to have to get rid of the damage, the citizen who's going to get it. Aside from the damage, there's got to be a company that's going to make a profit once we've done the damage. Now, when you look at it, an industrial institution within these, the BMC, we just said BMC. Let's take care of BMC first. BMC owes nearly $1 billion. With agreements with TMSF creditors, TMSF reduces the debt to 800 million, and TMSF deals with this thing, says: "I'll pay the debt." The debt now sells the company's assets while the company is active and passive, and TMSF takes over the debt. Not only that, the TMSF tenders after it's paid off, the 220 per cent land in the province of Bornova, and sells the land, which is only $1.5 billion worth of land, for how much? 985 million muhammers are bidding at the price of 985. Look, it's got 1.5 billion TL land, and it's got the factory, the equipment, the equipment, the whole business; it's going to be auctioned at $985 million. One person enters the tender -- this is arranged, arranged -- comes out one person and takes the tender for 751 million TL. So this company's taking 234 million less than the price that's been raised. Who's it for? It's being sold to ES Financial Investments. Now, I'd like to have a word with you about this ESP. Who's ES? I'm sure you can tell from the ES. His initials and initials. Who's that? The famous Ethem Sandzak. Some of you don't know about Ethem Sandzak, do you? I don't think it's the one who doesn't know. Everyone knows very well. Where do you think Ethem Sandzak got that power, let's take a look at this. Ethem Sandzak started with just one pharmacy warehouse in Turkey, and he started with the pharmaceutical warehouse, and the profession group he worked with came to this level by exploiting the pharmacists, by deceiving the pharmacists.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0190par0035	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0036	You're lying. If I'm lying, you'll come and talk here. Don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0190par0037	You're lying!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0038	Here's the ES Pharmaceutical Warehouse, whose first name and last name were, and then the Esko Itriyat perfume Warehouse.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0190par0039	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0191par0040	Isn't that rude?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0041	He set up the starboard Imported Pharmaceutical Warehouse. As he grew older, he named his companies after them.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0190par0042	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0043	As the group's name suggests, its goal was to become Turkey's largest in drug collection. He went through the drugstores one by one. He promised them honor and honor, just as Erdogan had sworn from this bench, as Turkey had promised honor and honor.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0190par0044	You're lying!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0045	And when he gave it, he said, "Idol." He said, "Idol." He went one by one, and he made these promises. In doing so, the pharmacists had serious concerns and fears: "There will be a chain of pharmacy chains and markets. " But Ethem has convinced the Sandzak pharmacists, none of which will be done. Until when? Until Turkey takes over 40 per cent of the market. After receiving 40 percent of it, he sold it to an international company and suspended the promise of honor and honor he had given to his fellow pharmacists and sold his company. But Ethem Sandzak realized something else, and he said, "Why am I trying so hard to get rich, it's easy. Those who blasphemed at the nation's mother's mother, those who wore 700 TL watch and gave gifts, those who kept seven crates in their rooms, got richer faster; those who couldn't reset their money, got richer faster; if I did business with the government, I would be richer. He said, "Yes, and decided to do business with the government." So what did they do to Ethhem Sandzak (BMC)? They took a parcel, they gave a parcel along with the plot. Now, he tried that in BMC, and he succeeded. In the tender held on May 2, 2014, only BMC received its assets somehow and began to walk Ethem Sandzak. We just talked about media outlets being transferred to TMSF. You remember Fatih, don't you? What about your Prime Minister, the former Prime Minister's current President calling from abroad? What are these subtitles? Aren't you ashamed? You know the one he said or asked to design the headlines? Alo Fatihe Ethem Sandzak says that you took the sweet side of the job, you. Did you get the sweet side? You took the sweet side of the job, and I'm left with the evening, and they had to -- they gave me $69 million -- and I'm going to take it. It says and takes it. You remember Fatih, don't you? What was he doing? He called the TVs, or, sir, we're taking them off right now. He says, "The opposition is lowering the voice in Turkey, even taking out the subtitles of a general president's speech."
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0192par0048	You're lying!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0049	Then the media... what did we say to the media together? We said, "Administrator media." We said, "The pool media." Finally we said, "Haram media." Do you know why we called it Haram media? If you press it a little bit, you'll understand why the brain is forbidden, because everybody's entitled to it. If you press a little, you'll see that your brain is entitled to everyone. In that illicit media -- $630 million, not TL -- this nation has the right to an orphan; he has the right to the prosecutor who died yesterday, the one you abused, the one who was a martyr in that $630 million.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0193par0050	Don't say the prosecutor's name, don't say it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0051	You'll never scream for free. The people you're going to yell at are the ones who say, "Strike, pulley, putter, mock God's verse; the ones who wear 700,000 TL watch, the ones who can't reset their money.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0194par0053	You were making fun of Friday prayer the other day.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0054	Look, I'm telling you like Bilal, those who can't reset their money, those who have seven safe deposit boxes in their rooms, you're gonna yell at them, not at me, you're gonna yell at them. You know what you're gonna yell at? You're gonna yell at 11 writers to write the same column. You know what you're gonna yell at? You're going to yell at the newspapers that make the same headlines. You know what you're gonna yell at? You're going to yell at those who made up the Blurstone lie. You will shout at those who deceive these people, those who abuse religion. You'll never tire yourself out for free. This nation will teach you on June 7th, bringing the Republican People's Party to power.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0195par0057	He'll give it to you, he'll give it to you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0058	The People's Party of the Republic will question those who have wronged their orphan's rights, and those who share them, and those who are innocent of their theft. I'm not ashamed, I've come here in a heartbeat, I'm going to walk with my eyes wide open, but you're with your black foreheads. Since you've come to your senses, and you've turned a blind eye to thieves, and you've raised your hand against your will in those investigation commissions, this nation will ask you to pay for it, and I give you all my love.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0196par0061	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0197par0062	Haydar, don't scratch.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0063	I'm itching, come scratch.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0196par0064	Against him, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0197par0065	Don't scratch, Haydar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0066	Come here, scratch me. Come scratch me, come.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0197par0067	Go! Go, Haydar!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0068	You can't answer to God. Don't give it to me.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0197par0069	Don't scratch, Haydar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0198par0070	Sit down.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0071	Why are you yelling at me? Did you get a cut or did you get a cut?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0198par0072	That's slander, shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0189par0073	Are you the attorney of Ethem Sandzak? Are you a lawyer?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0198par0074	Shut up.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0199par0075	Congressmans, please... please, if you're going to argue more -- you said your word -- discuss it backstage. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0200par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been promised on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute you all. It is likely that the 24th term of this Assembly will be the last day -- perhaps until morning -- talks of Parliament. It's a good idea to reduce the tension a little bit, folks. So some friends are going to go, some friends are going to run; they're going to be elected, they're going to be unelected. What we've learned here is that it's been two semesters, it's really not enough in parliament to do healthy research on the issues of Turkey, serious issues, the arithmetic of parliament, the distribution of economic policies. So, the current electoral system, because of the dam, is in a parliament with an absolute majority of a party -- which has been happening for 12 years -- where opposition parties are being ignored, and if they come up with as many right proposals as they want, they can't be discussed. In fact, in two terms or eight years, I've seen that we've proposed a lot of things, we've refused; we've insisted, we've refused, we've refused, but we've established 7-8 research commissions together, we've worked together. I mean, that's the kind of work that happens when the time and place comes. Of course, at a time of the global financial crisis -- you know, the effects are still going on -- there's a process from the 2001 bank wrecks as the effects continue. The cost of the TMSF, the bankrupt banks, the sunken loans that the BDDK has seized is, unfortunately, over $100 billion paid for by treasured loans to our citizens. Yes, if a realistic study had been done in this Parliament, if the TMSF could have had serious control of both the BDDK, if there had been an audit for the Parliament, a healthy audit would not have needed these research proposals today. When we tell you that the Savings Insurance Fund alone has seized 25 banks, that five of these banks are already in bankruptcy, 46 television, radio companies are being seized; these kinds of research proposals can be an opportunity not only by law, by amendments to the tender law, but by public abuse, to prevent the losses of the taxpayer's tax to the treasure. Because since the 2001 crisis -- which I have observed as a lawyer -- many of our fellow lawyers here have been involved in these cases either as a judge or as a lawyer -- the savings of the citizens have suddenly evaporated here, here and there, and they've squandered all their savings, even all their bonuses for a lifetime. Now, some of these... there's that aspect as a BDDK, one can't think apart from the other. So there's talk of 30-40 billion sunken loans, people talking about the bankrupt loans of public banks. Since these public banks have always been under political authority's command in the past and the present time of power, they certainly have given credit to their own supporters, and there have been problems with these loans. In fact, I'd like to point out a much bigger problem: this is often expressed in terms of being a garanteur, the guarantor of the treasure. So it's only a matter of time before something similar happens in these megaprojects. We're talking $100 billion here. That's how it works. Now, of course, the Republican People's Party is talking about an incident related to the incident, especially to the Çukurova Holdings, a motion to investigate, and the motion to do some damage. Here's the BMC, you know, jointly with Qatar's capital -- and there's 145 TOMA, armoured vehicles for the police in the form of an invitation; there's armored transport vehicles for the soldier, TSK, there's all kinds of things. These are public talks, debates, and, of course, you see, very quickly, with a bid from a sunken place, there are very serious numbers. Of course, it is Parliament's duty to oversee it, so Parliament must protect its citizens' rights, its law, its taxes. However, I must say that since Turkey has entered the election atmosphere by tomorrow, we know that the AKP's majority will not accept them, and it's not possible, and I'll be very clear in this Parliament -- as long as this position stands, these will continue like this, the majority of the EC PARTY, the three parties against it. In these June 7th elections, if we enter the election as HDP and cross the dam, here, the brake balance system will change, friends, I'm very clear. So there's only one option to call this habit in Parliament, this wrong course. It's that the HDP came to Parliament with a strong group crossing the dam. I believe, in such a case, there may be a democratic new constitution, democratic new election laws, election dams may be lifted, and the Court's control, the Court's members of the Court in a few minutes, you'll be making elections -- all of which in a moment -- there's a need for restoration, a restoration, a restoration, a coup law in Turkey. But today, Mr. Prime Minister announced an election package, heralded the economic package. Sir, I don't know how many months or so before he gets a course, he's going to pay for the three-and-a-half years of teaching staff, which means the SGK is going to pay for it, so it's a set of arrangements brought to the employers. Now, I'm asking you, for God's sake, the dollar found 2.64. In just two months, you have a minimum wager who lost $949 from the fight between the President and the Central Bank, a pensioner who lost $147, a total of $1,000, and a total loss of $317 on an officer's salary. Now, how are you going to pay for these losses? Of course, they're not problems that can be solved by paying $100 for what's under $1,000. In our country, 20 million lives below the poverty line, friends, and 30 million below the poverty line. With a new power in Turkey, a new understanding, a new policy, a new mentality, I believe that these problems can only change with radical changes, and I wish you all success. I hope everyone does their part in this next term. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0201par0091	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favor of the proposal, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0202par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, April 2nd was declared World Autism Awareness Day by the United Nations. On this occasion, he wishes our children, the most important part of our future, to benefit from the basic needs of education and health care, and I want to point out that this is not a disease, it's a difference, and we're there for them. Of course, the other things we're aware of are the TMSF tenders that our friends have just mentioned, or rather, about non-bid sales. I'm really surprised that our friends were angry just now when something like this was said. I'm just wondering, if the price of a tender goes down from 985 million to 751 million, which is 234 million at a great price, wouldn't your conscience be aching? This was an operation to side with the government's institution, the TMSF, to create a non-compulsive media, to create TMSF, press organizations, media organizations; okay, you got it. 234 million down here, and then the orders were taken. It's like half a state institution with the Defense Industry, and early on, which means it's going to be sold to Ethem Sandzak, so it's obviously all, without bones -- there was news on the press, and we didn't hear any denial about it -- there was a preparation here. After that, he sold 49 per cent to Qatar's industrial institution, the Armed Forces Agency. Now, we say, how much did he buy it for, how much did he sell it for? E, when you look at it from one side, Qatar's armed forces share with the Turkish Armed Forces. Oh, and then we looked at this agenda, and it has something to do with getting a missile out of China, because the trucks that will be used as missile defense launchers, the trucks that have a deal with the BMC. Now, to be honest, we're surprised at how publicly we've been treated so well by a fellow businessman. Sure, does it end here? It's not over. There are tenders for the TOMA vehicles that you've all seen in these social events, which we've discussed here, or rather, they're being auctioned off. Now, as we're looking at it, our lawmakers have filed a question motion to make a statement here. We haven't been able to answer the questions we've been asking here at the Internal Affairs Commission. We write it down. It's called, and they don't get an answer. We're looking through these, the big cake goes back to the same company, goes to the starboard. In fact, I don't understand what kind of conscience you're putting under the price, like you're saying, "I'm such a blind eye." Anyway, it's a habit. It's like the Public Contractorship doesn't exist, and every law is exempt, and so on and so forth. So, now, what kind of justice will there be? How can you do this without having the right? There are companies competing. Now, at the same time, there's only 234 million not-so-goods, 220 acres of land. A number of patent registration rights were purchased under normal circumstances, which should have been sold, but the land was also favoured by the company. Then, we'll see... if this keeps up, the company will be free of those debts with already-ordered orders. So why don't you run it and then hand it over to someone? Honestly, there's no way to understand any of this. We're looking again, the starboard family's not finished with this. I'm passing the TOMA contract, which is a very long issue, because there are other companies involved; they took 50 from 50 from 50 others, they took 50 from 50 others, but the big fish was given to the Sandzak Group with 151 TOMA. Next thing we know, he's got his nephew, Sandzak, and TMSF's doing great there. I suppose this Sandzak family has a relationship with the Erdogan family, which is so protected and protected, I find it hard to understand. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has been renovating, and the nephew Mesut Sandzak has been doing well. And then again, after $117 million, the price of the Aegean World Trade Center was reduced to $90 million and re-trialized. I mean, really, it's not a favor... okay, I'll understand if there's a tender on the regular routes, but it's always given to the same corporations under invitations, and it's simply impossible to understand that this method is being made into a regular, general rule, friends. While all this is happening, the government is sticking its head in the sand. What does TMSF do here? What's TMSF, guys? Savings Savings Insurance Fund. Well, on the one hand, we're insureing the citizens' deposits and entrusting them to them so they can come back tomorrow. I wonder what it'll be like with these banks, when something happens tomorrow, from an institution that's constantly favouring the allies. So the banking industry is clear. Citizens' bankrupt loans have increased. Need loans -- there seems to be some improvement in the issue -- but their loans for direct need have increased by 58 percent in a year. Frankly, there's no way to understand something like this at this time. We go to the allies where we can deal with them and figure it out. Same with his credit card. From last year to this year, friends, when it was 3 million, 103 thousand, it's now up to 5.6. Look at the point where credit card debt increases over a year. In the same way, the supply loan has increased by 58 percent. You're looking at loans that the citizen can't pay, the follow-up loans, the unpayable ones; look, not the sum, but the increased loans that the citizen can't pay. Now, instead of solving them, focusing on these issues, our economic bureaucracy, the banking bureaucracy, is bringing them to us and making arrangements here, and unfortunately, we can't get anything out of it. And what is Mr. Davutoglu doing at the point of their solution? Again, he announced a package today, a virtual package -- we still have the old ones, and we talked here yesterday -- the employment and incentive package. When are you going to do it, when are you going to end your reign of government? Two months to go, he's still stalling with the package. So the structural measures that needed to be taken were when Mr. Babacan was here yesterday, we asked him, we argued, but unfortunately, he couldn't give us a satisfactory answer. Well, what do you have to do? It says here he's still explaining the precautionary package. Guys, let's drop the package. Let's do something. There are those in charge of the Council of Ministers, there are those in authority of the institutions, there are those that can be arranged with regulations and notifications. Instead of doing this, you're still explaining the precautionary package. I mean, we didn't tell you that just now. When will you meet the requirements of this package? He says, "The industry, the incentive... we've said over and over again that these things need to be changed, that these things aren't going to happen with 49 or 50 incentives, that the incentive system needs to be sectoral incentives, that they need to be narrow spaces. So, what did you do about it? There are things that can happen with the decree, there are things that can happen with the law. We told you here, we always thought we'd get them out in a sense of constructive, guiding opposition, but you didn't go near any of them. If there's one by morning, it's now the internal security package, which is also the cause of the TOMA. What are you going to do with 350 TOMA? You mean, everyone's going to attack you on the eve of the election? By law, I'm wondering if you're taking it to put it on people. I mean, where are you going to use the intermediary to intervene in social events, all the means? Mr. Prime Minister, if one burns, we'll have 10 of them. But no matter how many are burned, I don't know anything too big, let the friends enlighten us if they know. What are we going to do with all these TOMA cars? It's a waste of everybody's money, isn't it? And there's talk of prices, and suddenly there's over $600,000, and there's talk of a serious number, and somebody has to explain it to us. There's no answer to the questions of the MPs, and then there's more doubt, and there's more doubt. So, let's say we're going to say we're going to do something with them and with them, but like I said yesterday, we don't expect that from you anymore. We asked you to look into these issues, and I'm afraid you didn't. We thought we'd figure this out, and unfortunately, you didn't. Now, these will be the final regulations of your departure, the final laws. Hopefully, as of June 7th, in the power of the National Movement, we will carry out these proposals, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0203par0113	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0117	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love. I have made a commitment against a motion by the Republican People's Party to set up a research commission, which has been issued by the TMSF to investigate the claim that a company was given to a company close to the government in irregular ways to determine the measures that need to be taken. We are having the final talks of the final talks of the 24th century. We desire that when we enter this final corner, when we set the point, that everyone should speak beautifully under this roof; that there should be no incriminating, incriminating, insulting, lying and slanderous talks; but we see today that when we arrive here and enter the last quarter, we will put an end to the final corner, where we will put an end to the Parliamentary work, where we will talk to each other in a very hurtful manner, at least after this hour, we will have a better message of each other's law if we do it here on the way to the election. I hope we respect that, too.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0205par0119	Recep, tell him it's not about us; he's talking about the previous one.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0120	The issue, of course, is that at the point where a company owned by the TMSF is given to companies close to the government in irregular ways, with contracts... the TMSF is authorized to collect the money of the people's money, which is squandered and sunk in banks for the nation.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0206par0121	They collect it and throw it away otherwise.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0205par0122	They're after the partisans.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0123	All business and transactions of this institution are subject to judicial supervision. If the TMSF has illegally seized this company, Çukurova Holdings, in an unfair way, then those involved will go to trial, and they will cancel this transaction. Someone here can be the lawyer of Çukurova Holdings, and he can be the lawyer to waste this nation's money, but we're the lawyer to get the money that's been squandered back into the treasure. In a public tender, everyone may have to participate. The tender's been put on the ad, in all the papers, in all the ads, one can go in, ten can go in. I don't know... or here, at a price as low as this... what percentage of the tender will be taken, what percentage of the reward will be taken by the law. I mean, why don't you just give it to someone who says, "I didn't know about the tender, I was going to enter, but they didn't put me in the tender." We didn't hear the claim anywhere, so if there's a claim like that, you can say it here. 1 person entered the tender, and then this one was given. You call it this. Others wanted to make the tender, but it would be better if you told us if the opportunity was not given, so let's go after him. If this is really irregularity, if there's a mistake, there's a judgment. You go to trial, you go to the DA's office, you complain.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0207par0124	It's slander.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0125	There's no defense here, there's no way to talk about it, there's no way to talk about it, there's no way to talk about it.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0208par0126	They have lawyers here, lawyers.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0127	I don't know if we should be talking about this person's commercial reputation, at the point where the name Ethem Sandzak is brought up here, where it sinks the pharmacists, when it's finished, and I don't know... at least we're supposed to swear to no one that we're a congressman and we're supposed to be here, and somebody's doing business in this country. I think it's the worst thing to slander a man who does business. Let the men do the work...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0209par0128	Is it a good thing to ignore it if it's wrong?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0129	Let the men do their job, give them a job in the country. Let's make it happen, let's make it possible. And if they're wrong, that's where the judgment stands. And if you have a document, you take it to the judge, to the prosecutor, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge, to the judge.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0209par0130	We know what's going on in the trial. Come on, Recep.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0204par0131	It's like protecting no one here, and it's our goal to protect no one, and it can't be anyone's. I'd like to point out here that none of us here has the right to damage the commercial reputation of the men in our country and the lies and the slanders that we've never been here. Of course, the speaker just said, "You're taking so many TOMA, are you going to put a TOMA on the people?" By Allah, these are not taken to drive TOMAs upon the people, but these TOMAs are taken to send the TOMAs upon the terrorists. (AK PARTY) These TOMAMAS are taken to ensure that our citizens live in more peace, in a safer environment. We call it peace, and you say, "Why do you buy equipment on the road to peace?" Whether our country is complicated, terror in our country or not? At the point of precaution, I say that we all here in Parliament should cooperate, especially in an environment where our prosecutor was martyred yesterday, while you should have supported them, none of us should put oil on the bread of terror. We're all surrogates here. A few minutes ago, the indictment was: will it be white or black on June 7th? By Allah -- he said it in the HDP, he said it in the CHP -- you decide which one of you will be between you, and which one of you will be the 23 April Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has always been given to this group by this nation. We think we're going to come up here with 400 MPs, and you three are going to get stuck here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hereby declare that we are against this group's proposal, with respect to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0210par0138	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0210par0140	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0141	He said we're the lawyers for Çukurova Holdings, Mr. Speaker, and I want to correct him. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0212par0142	No names, no accusations.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0143	I brought the motion.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0213par0144	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0147	Mr. President, Congressman, I'm very calm and calm, and I'll tell you as Bilal understands. Really, I don't know what Ethhem Sandzak is, and I understand that Ethem is a lawyer among your friends... and I don't know what I know about Çukurova Holdings. I'm just a lawyer for the government. You know why I'm a lawyer for the government, guys? As the TMSF seizes this place once, $440 million in loans are not only paid for, so it seizes this company and takes over the TMSF. After the TMSF took over, his operations before Ethhem gave them to Sandzak, if he could do that and save that company, it might have been a lot more profitable, I'm passing through. Do you know why I'm a lawyer for the state? Because after the TMSF took over this company, it took over its debt of $1 billion, with the old money -- for those of you who don't understand -- it took over 1 quadrillion in debt. The agreement narrowed it down to 800 million, and the TMSF paid this $800 million debt. Despite the 1.5 billion TL land, he received 751 million dollars from his tender -- not to say the wrong number. Look, he's paid 800 million loans, he's bid 751 million dollars, so the government, TMSF, has suffered 49 million losses here, my friends. Now, that's what I do as a lawyer, that's the state's attorney. Again, TMSF, Ethhem Sandzak, before they marketed it... because Ethhem Sandzak was hurting those media outlets that he bought for 69 million TL, which we call "haram media," which had to be paid, which had to be paid; one. Two, the Defense Industry Undersecretary has been signed. You know, we don't make deals with Israel. You're saying that there are no armored cars that can't be sold because of the Chinese embargo -- the deals for selling vehicles to Iran, Libya, Jordan and Lebanon were made by the state. Remember when you didn't make a deal with Israel? And I won't sing the TOMA, my friends. And the TOMA people are just trying to raise Ethem Sandzak, the things that BMC is doing to get BMC up, and all that's going on, you don't get up and take off as Çukurova's lawyer, I don't know what. I'm a lawyer for the state, I'm a lawyer for every single penny that every citizen deserves. He's the lawyer of the country, I'm the lawyer of the country, I'm the lawyer of the country, I'm the lawyer of the country, I'm the lawyer of the country, and I'm going to continue to do it because I can't handle the fact that you've distributed it to the bank manager. And once again, I'm going to go white, and I'm going to go white. But know that this country will judge you, and I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0214par0154	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0215par0155	First, answer for the Şişli.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0156	Come on! Go and ask Melih Gökçek.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0215par0157	But you'll go...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0211par0158	Ask Melih Gökçek. Ask for a parcel!
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0215par0159	You'll only go as far as the swelling.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0216par0160	Please, let's be quiet. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system. Do you have an explanation? Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0217par0165	Mr. President, when you opened the merger, I made a point, but so far, no response from any of the other parties. I think the party's deputy group presidents may have been outside at that time, but I would like to repeat from here this morning's statement: I think that a very powerful declaration that has been issued by our Assembly in order to prevent terrorism from reaching the goal of terrorism in the last few days. Here, I think it's useful to have a joint stance of the political party, which has received votes from millions of citizens, and to share it in public. Therefore, in this environment where a prosecutor is a martyr, a variety of attacks are taking place, I feel the need for such a spirit, such a belief, and a common opposition to our society, and I demand that a joint declaration be shared in the name of our Assembly, which all political parties will sign.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit05spe0216par0166	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, there's a review of the extension of the Commission's mandate of the Chairman of Parliamentary Research Commission, which aims to determine the measures that need to be taken by investigating the causes of the Women's Violence: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Commission, which began its work on 13/01/2015, according to its decision at its meeting of 02/04/2015, is required to extend its working time for a month from 13/04/2015, according to the 2nd joke of Article 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission, which failed to complete its investigation in three months, is given a month's notice. The Commission is given an additional month according to the decree. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to have it read and put to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council's Commission for Assembly Research on the purposes of the measures needed to investigate the causes of violence against women has also requested that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during the holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; of Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan; of İstanbul MP Rahmi Çiçeli; of İstanbul MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım and İzmir MP Aydın Şengül; of İstanbul MP Ali Demirçalı; of İstanbul MP Gürsel Başçalı; of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; of İstanbul MP Nursel Aydoğan; of İzmir MP Rahmi İştülelı; of İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; of İstanbul MP Ahmet Ken Tankulu;;; Şeğeli MP Haydar Akar; of İstanbul MP Şişlı; of İstanbul MP Şişlar; of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; of İstanbul MP Nursel Aydogan'sıçan; of İstanbul MP Uçı Akçılı; of İstanbul People's People's Party; of İstanbul People's Party of Turkey; and of İstanbul MP İçılı İçıçı, İstanbul MP İçım İçıçılı, İstanbul MP İçılı, İstanbul MP İç İç İçı İçı İçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı; and İstanbul MP İçı İçılı İçı Akçıçıçıçıçılı Akçılı İçıçıçıçıçıçılı, İstanbul MP Akçılı MP.; İstanbul MP.; İstanbul MP İçılı MP. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 687 rows. In accordance with the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani will first speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0218par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a promise on the Business Security Bag Bill. I salute you all. Perhaps we are experiencing the final or last days of the 24th - century legislature work. Even if it wasn't our last conversation, we're on our way to the end. Now, the heart would have wanted us to spend this last chapter together, put the good things in front of us, talk about the good things, end the work for the community, and close the 24th term. Now, in part, when we were talking about this business security bag bill, we looked at the whole thing, so there's some water in it, at the bottom of the bar. Isn't there something we could call it? Now, there's partially water at the bottom of the glass, but this time we're concerned about what might have been dripping into that water, and we need to take it to a lab environment. We'll consider it, we'll discuss it in detail, we'll discuss it. We have, in particular, supported any arrangement in the interest of society, and we will continue to support it. Let no one expect us to take a stand in the interests of society. Now, I've gone through my speech file, and I've been thinking a lot about where to start, and every time my hand goes to this list, What's on this list? There is no government, what are we discussing, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0219par0035	I'm here, I'm here, Mr. Zozani, I'm coming.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0218par0036	We looked into what's on this list. The list is a complete list of people who died in 2014 in business accidents. If I count their names, if I try to read their names, I won't be able to finish them in 20 minutes, no way. Look, if I try to read the names on this list, I don't have a chance to finish this list in the time I've been given, because the list mentions the names of 1,600 workers, 1,600 workers who died in business accidents. Now, some of these workers are called Soma laborers, those 301 workers. Is there an arrangement in this bill that we're going to discuss, behind these workers, about their families entrusted to the government, to us, to address their problems, to ease their pain a little? Despite all our insistences, it's not that the families of the workers who have lost their lives have to be able to sort out their family's pain, and those workers' friends are now putting the action factor into action in order to get their compensation. You promised, the government promised. As the soma pain began from its first day, the Prime Minister, the President, the ministers, representatives of the ruling party came forward, made promises, promised that there would be no more such work disasters, no more job killings under the ground. If the government had taken a positive step in this matter, maybe we could have started the negotiations hours ago. The government is not resisting, we want the public to know. We, the opposition, say to the government: "Let us ensure the safety of our people who work underground. Let's do it the same way in Turkey as in the world. Let us provide minimum measures that will guarantee the lives of people who work with shovels and dig underground. And you said, as a government, with all the ministers, with the Prime Minister and the ruling party officials, you left, especially when the Soma disaster was going on, you promised; you left when the Ermenek disaster was happening, you promised, and we'd build a living room. We've been trying to convince him for hours. We've been trying to convince the Minister and the government of the living room for hours. What does it cost the government to build and make these living rooms obligatory? It won't cost you anything, but it guarantees the lives of tens of thousands of workers going underground. That's the only reason the negotiations on this bill have lasted so long. As of this hour, the government is not convinced. The second important thing: look, TKI has handed over a lot of stoves to subcontractors -- which are very controversial here -- which is a lot of talks -- and they've made a redevance deal. Even though he is legally a major contractor, when he does not pay his employee's compensation, the law adopted by Parliament a few months ago says: "The main contractor is obliged to pay these compensations." The government says: "No, let the main contractor pay it." Don't let the government take a penny out of your pocket. Ya, the government's pocket isn't yours. The pockets of the government are the pockets of society, the pockets of the people. The government's pockets are made up of public taxes. Why do you insist that our workers, our workers, our workers who are the victims, take advantage of our workers? I assure you, if there was an arrangement in favor of the employer, you would not insist, you would immediately pass it, and there are many examples. But you insist on it, we don't destroy it. You say. So, what happens when you don't? Your report card is there, this report card, which has been told to you many times since the day you arrived in power: 146 workers in 2002, 811 workers in 2003, 843 workers in 2004, 1,096 workers in 2005, 1,601 workers in 2006, 1,044 workers in 2007, 866 workers in 2008, 1,171 workers in 2009, 1,454 workers in 2010, 1,710 workers in 2011, 878 workers in 2012, 1,235 workers in 2014, 1,600 workers in 2014, 1,600 workers in February 2015, and 206 workers in late 2015. Even countries in the Middle East who are at war have lost so much life. We want to talk about the measures that will stand in the way of this disaster, and we want these measures in this bill, but the government refused. There's one other thing the government doesn't keep. You were supposed to reduce the working time underground to six hours a day, and you broke it first. What did you do for six hours? The president promised, the Prime Minister promised, that you would reduce the working time underground to six hours a day. But you immediately forgot that promise. When you brought the bill to the Plan and Budget Commission, you brought it in as six hours, and then you submitted to the employer's lobby. Clearly, you couldn't handle the employer's lobby. You've been blackmailed. The employer lobby blackmailed the government. What was that blackmail? He said, "If you remove this, we will lay off the workers. You have submitted yourself to this blackmail, and you have broken your promise, and you have arranged it according to the employer's will. Clearly, in the time that we have left behind, you have not kept any promise that you made in the first place from Soma and Ermenek, nor have you kept any promise that you have made to the people; you have broken it all, and you have broken all your promises. Now, you're going to come out here, sir, and you're going to say, "We did this, we did this." Can you claim to be true to your word? We said to our underground worker, "You have six hours to work on a day underground. You made that promise, and now when you came up here and spoke, we stood by that promise. Can you say that? We'll set up the living rooms. You said. Who did you say it to? You said it against the workers. Maybe as of this hour, as of tens of thousands of workers working underground, you promised them all, you said: "We will build a living room." When you come up here and talk to us, we stand behind those words. Can you say, "We"? If you can say so, we've done business. You can't say, but you can't say, because you don't keep any of those words. Again, I'd like the public to know this publicly, for hours, not even counting the Commission phases since yesterday -- we're trying to convince the government of this, but the government is not convinced. We don't know if he'll be convinced after this, but this government doesn't sign any arrangements that might benefit the worker, it prevents him from signing. There's a reason for that. The reason is that the economy of Turkey is in crisis, we are aware. The foreign investor is not coming to Turkey, and we are aware of that. Now, we have a government understanding that has made Turkey the center of attraction to international investors over cheap labour. The government says that they want to invest in Turkey or invest in Turkey: Sir, come, invest in Turkey. The labor is cheap, you can use the worker head over heels, and if he dies, you don't have to pay compensation. Now, years ago, the Prime Minister of the era, we are now becoming Chinese. The joke of what the President says comes out, it makes sense. That's what you mean by Chinese. You've turned Turkey into a cheap labor paradise, a labouring hell. Now, brag about your work as much as you can. Unfortunately, we can't discuss the arrangements for community benefit, and we'd like to have them on the record. Once again, the Minister of Finance has given a different balance sheet every time he comes out, but your investments in TOMA, war, lead, if you had invested in people's well-being, improving working conditions, you could have built around 2,000 living rooms in Turkey, one by one. How much does this cost? You would have done it at the cost of one quarter. If you had spent a quarter of that money, you could have built around 2,000 living rooms. You have that chance today, you can build it, you can build it, but you don't care about the pressures of society, the pressure of society is light to you; the pressure of the investor and the neckless is too heavy for you, you can't deal with it. We don't know why, but as long as you can't prove otherwise, you're tied up in the belly, so you have to submit to that pressure. And because you're attached to capital, you're trying to get back the rights of the worker, the poor, not the rights of the poor. Unions are at your door every day, arguing every day, trying to express it with action where the word ends, but you don't want to take a step on it, you don't want to hear about it, you underestimate the pressure. This pressure will take you away. There has never been any injustice in any place. This is an injustice, and the people will see injustice, and they will be questioned on the Day when they see it. Perhaps in the history of the Republic, the governments that the public has given the highest advance are the governments of your time. But this advance is over for you because this report card, the report card I just described, has become an unacceptable report card. Everyone will see this statistic. The public knows about this statistic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is your picture, compared to the 27 countries of the EU. This graph is a graph of AKP governments, a chart, a report card. So, I think we've come to the end of the road for you, the beginning of the road for public power. I salute you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0220par0055	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0221par0059	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Actually, the bill we're talking about is occupational health and occupational security, but it's still a bag of law. This bag isn't in the law again, it's not. All the laws that should be discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission have been discussed in this law. All laws related to the Ministry of Social Policy, which should be discussed in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, have been discussed on other commissions. So there's a counter-instruction project, the power, you're doing it all the way to the end. There should be a reward for this. I mean, a power that twists the opposite corner so much, makes the opposite corner, implements it, has not yet come to earth, my dear friends. Look, we worked on the commission for months, we worked on the subcommittee. In the Law on Occupational Health and Occupational Safety, Mr. Secretary, I told you and the members of the Commission there that this law does not solve this problem. It's not the law of occupational health, occupational safety. I've asked, I've begged, let's make an arrangement according to international contracts, according to the ILO standards, according to the European directives, but we haven't. When people die in this country, when there are job killings, when there are job killings in Soma, when there are jobs killings in Ermenek, they immediately come up with a law because they're trying to shut down the wrong behavior that they're doing. Now, look, in other modern countries, ministers who are subject to these practices don't sit on that couch one day, dear friends. In the sense of responsibility, they say, "Yes, I am responsible for the process, and I must resign." The resignation is an honorable business. It is also a virtue to resign and end this outcome in that sense. Is this done? No. In spite of their stubbornness, they kept their seats, but they kept the murders going. That's how you say these murders, and you've just had numbers, and you've got a picture. In business accidents around the world, we are the third country, the first country in Europe. I mean, he's bragging about it, Turkey. What's he bragging about? Here, we have the 16th great economy... How does he brag? We have the great economy of the 17th...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0222par0063	19, 19. 19, it's bigger than 17. That's what they're trying to tell me now.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0221par0064	Now that we are 19th, the government boasted about how they grew up. Who paid for this? The workers in Soma have paid. Who paid for this? The workers in Ermenek paid. Who paid for this? You know, they died well. There are deaths in the fountain, as you call them. The workers at Zonguldak paid. Who paid for it? The workers you worked and exploited for 13 or 14 hours paid. Who paid for it? Your contractors paid for it. Who paid the price, my dear friends? The minimum wage you employ, the poverty you make, the hunger limit you work under, and the minister's salary is too much. The people you work under what he calls the hunger line paid that price. In Turkey, the numbers of TÜİK-İşin, HAK-İşin, KAMUSEN, MEMURSEN, even your aide union were worth 1,340 liras, you boasted of the hunger limit, 830 liras, 900 liras, you paid very well, you paid very well. [[!]] So, now, what did you do with those workers as a result? Twelve, thirteen, fourteen hours, dear friends. Now, what is the birth of May 1st? In America, it was May 1st, a hundred and thirty years ago, because it defied working in slavery conditions, it was a struggle to obtain eight hours of workday. What's done? People were slaughtered, killed, executed, executed to get an eight-hour working day. Today we still face a power in our country -- according to the European average -- which boasts that the average working period in Turkey is fifty-two hours and fifty-four hours. Thus, my dear friends, our very realistic and constructive suggestions regarding the essence of this law were not accepted by the Commission. If you really want to avoid killings, if you really want to stop killing jobs now, we said, let's create these occupational health professionals in an independent structure. In the employer's direction, we said that the employer's salary, occupational health care professionals, can't write a report despite the employer. We thought the employer who received his report would fire him immediately. Let's make it an autonomous structure. We wanted to make arrangements for this autonomous structure, whether it's the Minister of Labor, whether it's the employer's organization, whether it's unions, trade organisations, and whether it's an independent structure, occupational health, occupational security, and let's take measures through it. What happened? He refused, Commission. For months, my dear friends in this law... we did a long study with the minister yesterday, and we did work today. From here to all the media, don't write everything to power. If the withdrawal of several substances today had contributed to the recovery of several substances, this contribution was the result of a persistent resistance by the opposition. Write that down. I'll have the papers write that down. Let the press give us our due now. Please write down the Republican People's Party's efforts and will. Don't write everything to power. Don't see it all because it's power. We gave our months, our days, our nights, our efforts. Please note those efforts to one side. Look, my dear friends, we saved 165 million dollars of government in a single regulation of this law, we saved 165 trillion of old money. Where did we get it from? There's been an incentive. We discussed this clause for three hours, folks, three hours on the committee. It's a pre-law arrangement. In that arrangement, you know, there's an incentive that includes insurance and tax exemptions, depending on each employment. We're not against incentives. It's a project for the incentive of employment, and we've contributed to it before. But those who took this incentive, even though they didn't employ such a worker, they defrauded the state, took the state's money; a proposal is coming to the Commission, a proposal from the Ministry, and it is said: "Let's forgive the money of those who didn't give it, and those who defrauded the state." I want to express from here, from this stand that I have shown a very serious resistance. We convinced the Commission at the last minute, and at least we got them to forgive their interest. So we resisted, and resisted, that the principal money, and the state, and the money of those orphans, should not go after those employers, and we did not pursue the orphan's rights to them. That alone shows where the resistance is, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, my dear friends, in this law, we have put up a lot of resistance to this law, to the dissolution of jobs with the regulation of Article 2 of this law, which means that employers who ignore their warnings are being fined, but there are three warnings -- not wearing helmets, not wearing hats -- to the employee's disparity without severance. Where else did we fight? Another thing we have resisted, my dear friends, is that we have resisted practices, such as distance work, which are consolidating these conditions of slavery with the hands of capital. Of course, we'll go into the matter details later, and we'll tell them one by one about the work we're doing on that substance, but I'm telling you in particular, dear friends: there's an important arrangement, there's an arrangement for our friends in Soma, Ermenek, and there's an arrangement for their families. They are given certain rights in this arrangement, and we fully support it. But dear friends, the plan came to the Budget Commission, the workers in Zonguldak, why can't we take advantage of that right? Are we not able to benefit from the fact that we have not died before in Soma, and that we cannot benefit from the fact that we did not die in Ermenek? At that time, they asked, "Are you not taking advantage of us because our wives and children are not dead? " Mr. Berber, president of the Plan Budget Commission, said I provoked this, even on the Commission. I didn't know. In the end, he promised, and he said, "This will be resolved." Mr. Barber is here, now in our presence. What happened to that promise? You promised to solve their problem, so you spoke to them. Why don't you keep your promise? Why don't you just make sure that...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0223par0077	I didn't say anything. I mean, the president, he did. I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0221par0078	After 2003, why do you avoid doing this practice for our friends in the mines, where we have lost them? Why do you hold a price of $300 trillion, 500 trillion, $1 billion, $10 million, $20 million from these citizens? Because it's in your power to do everything for the capital, it's in your power, it's in your power, but when it comes to the laborer, it says, "Drive." As for the labourer, continue in the conditions of slavery. My dear friends say. Again, my dear friends, workers were laid off in Soma. You know, 1,800 people were fired in Soma, Manisa, and Manisa. There was one thing they wanted, and one thing: "Ya, it's not the employer you're handing over our severance package. " Yeah, we've been working on it all day today, yesterday, for days. That's what we said. Pay the severance pay, which is the sweat of friends. No, sir, we don't interfere with him. Over there, it's our company that's been in charge of the tender before. He was handed over to the TMSF. Let TMSF pay. When will TMSF pay? The verdicts have not been carried out. For three years, five years, when judgment is carried out, those people are thirsty, and those workers in Soma are precious friends perperizing. We begged, we begged, we begged. We beg not for ourselves, but for the workers of this country, for the workers of this country, for the people of this land, for the people of this land who have been wronged. There's resistance in that stuff. The other one? There's resistance. Why? The budget doesn't allow it. But today the Prime Minister -- we'll see soon -- is doing all sorts of things in a large pouch, other things. But those who are victimized, those who are wronged, those who sweat and lose their lives there are not allowed. That's conscience, that's humanity, that's justice? If that's your justice, then screw this justice, my friends. I'm telling you, it's going down. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, it's not our problem, it's not the opposition; it's our concern, it's our sincerity... and the Minister knows it very well, and the Commissioner knows it, and we don't have to worry about making things worse. Well, every arrangement brought to the public's benefit is under our signature. And we have resistance against any anti-human arrangement, and we will continue that resistance here until the end. We'll stand behind and applaud everything that's in the public interest, my dear friends. So I'm going to say once again that you haven't solved this problem once and for all, about the whole of this law. Once again, I cry out from experience that this problem has been resolved, that it has been treated with dressing treatment, and that this law will not solve much of these problems. There were those who did not respect my experience until today; I take it from Tuzla, I take it from Davutpaşa, I take it from those who died in construction in Beylikdüzüz, I take it from Soma, I take it from Ermenek, I take it from the citizens who died in the elevator in Mecidiyeköy, and I don't know what you're going to try anymore. How many more people are going to die, and you're going to make a real, realistic, permanent law? I'm asking you, I'm begging you one more time. I say we end a realistic, solution-making law once again, considering our proposals, I have a request like that. Finally, I'm going to say: Dear friends, the union arrangement, here are the arrangements for the highways, judicial decisions... the minister has promised, the prime minister has promised, everyone is waiting for us; 4/C) people are calling for help from here, 4/B are doing it, engineers who can't be appointed, teachers who can't be appointed. Turkey's real problem is unemployment and poverty, and Turkey's real problem is the problem of citizens who are really moaning. In this country, we've done other things with artificial agendas instead of solving them, dear friends. Now, I'd like to share something in particular: our elderly retired citizens have problems, our pensioners have problems. About that place, the Prime Minister gave it as good news today, but they don't want charity, they've already taken a handout. Indeed, they want a salary that will sustain them, a pension that will live their lives, at least two wages on the holidays, to go to our children and grandchildren. There will also be an arrangement here to protect their rights, but there will be artificial pre-election arrangements again. And my last sentence is about unions. At least, Minister, you're here at the last minute, and you're here, so I won't take credit for that. I mean, it's just, it's hard, you know, to say that the unions that were destroyed, the unions that couldn't get through the dam, that they're a month away, and now that they're in the Commission, they're in the process of at least a year... We know how to thank you for doing well, but once again, we will always stand before the wrongs, and I salute you with love, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0224par0089	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. In the name of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Jamalettin Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0225par0093	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the National Party of Action on the entire Bill of Law, 687 rows. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are at the end of another term. Before I begin my discussion of the matter, I would like to share with you my views on the 24th term. I wasn't in Parliament before, I don't know about them, but when I look at the 24th century, I don't think our Parliament's report card is at all good. Unfortunately, at this time, the government has not been able to effectively run our House, to solve the problems of the people, to address their problems, to protect the opposition, and to provide them with rout, either to cover the great corruption and theft of power, or to deal with separatist terrorists, to kill law and democracy, to create an authoritarian structure in our country, and to deliver the country to the one-man administration, the Parliament has been busy with the law, and the ruling MPs have taken a stand here to cover their positive contributions to the opposition. Dear MPs, you will now say: "But we have received a lot of votes." If there was a right proportion between getting a lot of votes and doing the right thing, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whom you have given the crowning crown, should not have seen in himself the right to criticize the past authorities with that logic. Why? So they came to power based on the majority of votes, and with that logic, they couldn't possibly do wrong. Oh, is there anything wrong with them? There is no doubt that when they see what you have done, their shortcomings will be innocent. That's another because in the past days, there had never been so much support, the country had never been robbed, the media had not been threatened as much as this period, there had never been a step back from the republic's gains, there was no conspiracy against the national army, there had never been such pressure and persecution by public institutions, especially the Security Agency, and a so-called "efficiency" had never been handed over to terrorists in the history of our country, and a region of our country had never been so lonely in the Republic because of incompetent foreign policies. What was the so-called most ambitious expression in AKP power? We've managed the country financially, we've blown the economy. You've been saying, and you've been claiming to create a more religious and powerful society, and I'd like to share it with you. Dear lawmakers are $231 billion in illegal domestic property in 2002 and $823 billion in late 2013. In 2002, the national income, $3,492 per person, was $10,897 at the end of 2013. So between the end of 2002-2013, the per capita income increased by $7.315, 3.1 per cent. Between the end of 2002 and the end of 2013, the public population's domestic debt is around 160 billion dollars, Turkey's total stockpile of foreign debt is around $250 billion, and its households' debt debt is up by $150 billion. Adding $50 billion in privatisation revenues from privatisation of public enterprises, which are 80 years old in our republic, is a total of $610 billion in debt. Between the end of 2002-2013, the country's debt rose from 210 billion dollars to 705 billion dollars, so 3.4 times higher. When we consider the situation we've been in over the past 11 years, our income per person increased by $7,315, while the amount of debt per person increased by $6,400. I mean, one person gets a mortgage from a bank, he owns a house, but he still owes the bank money. Turkey's growth is such a growth. The question is, how do we get this big in the years after this without being in debt? Our country's households and private sectors are no longer in debt. Thus, this must be what economists call an artificial growth that is not based on production. In this period, however, the gap between 20 percent of the richest and the poorest 20 percent of the income distribution continued to be about 8 times higher. The unemployment rate between 16 and 65 years of age was at a very high level of 10.9%. Young unemployment is around 25%. Most importantly, domestic savings have fallen from this period to 12.5 per cent by the end of 2013. This was about 15.1 percent in 2002, even during the crisis. To sum it up, growth is virtual growth based on debt. In this period, unemployment has increased, and the country has become unsustainable. In short, the economy slammed against the wall, and the citizen, when they began to pay back their own, he woke up from the dream, saying, "God, I'm burned!" At this time, I think it will be reflected in the chest as well. Dear lawmakers, there has also been an explosion in social life, women's murders, crime rates, drug use, social division, divorces, family murders, prostitution, corruption in this period. The country has reached a point of social madness. According to the World Economic Forum's annual report, Turkey ranked 134 countries in the 126th place, 99th in politics, 109th in education, and 131 in economic integration and opportunity equality. In 2014, 294 women were murdered. In 2015, 55 women were murdered in 64 days. The age of drug use has been reduced to 11, the community is divided on ethnic and religious grounds, fueled by government policies. A region of the country was virtually torn out of the country, and divorces increased by 1.6 per cent in 2013 to 125.305% in the previous year. There has been an explosion in the number of juvenile offenders and children in prisons. Drugs, theft, and murder crimes continue to set records. According to data from January 14, 2015, there are 159,396 prisoners and prisoners in Turkey. This represents an increase of 8 per cent compared to 2014. Dear lawmakers, again, in your time, the country is quickly moving away from democracy, from the state of law, from basic rights and freedoms, from human rights, especially from what you call this last period of craftsmanship. There is great pressure on those who oppose our country. People are branded, anyone who says anything out of the ordinary is under police surveillance, taken to the police station and terrorized the community. That's not true. Look, you'll pay for this one day. Justice can sometimes take place in this world, sometimes in the afterlife, but it certainly does. A prosecutor says, as a matter of duty, four ministers and their children, the son of the prime minister of the time, a businessman, etcetera, have formed a criminal organization. They profited by abuse of public office. I was counseling him, and he followed and saw that he had confirmed it with technical and physical surveillance, that he had given advice to a minister's son, that he had given his speech to reset the money between them. In fact, it was a claim, but by using the public power of the accused, with great panic, with which they have the public power, you immediately replaced the police commissioner at midnight, and then, against the law, the first time in the Republic's history, did not get the prosecutor's order to investigate the officers who did the investigation, by disbanding the prosecutors who were in charge of the investigation, in general opinion that they were correct. It's true, it's certain. If the accused were innocent, you have eliminated the possibility of a mistrial in front of the court. Now, 90 percent of the public says that these corruption and thefts are true. Otherwise, they would not hesitate to stand trial in independent courts. I have no doubt that on June 7th, our people will pave the way for this trial. If the state of the Republic of Turkey is not a banana republic, their account must be asked within the law. It is imperative that we do so in order to preserve democracy and the state of law in our country. Although there are many laws and regulations on working life in our country today, problems are increasing, problems are not being solved because of the shortcomings in the practice. Due to inadequate policies, unemployment is a record-breaking record in our country, while non-registeredness in working life is about 35 to 40 percent unsustainable. In terms of occupational health and safety, we are the last in Europe in mortal business accidents, the third in the world. In our country, there's not even a proper definition of occupational illness. One of the most important factors in working life is the retirement system in our country. What we can call the final point in working life now is that the government's audits are sadly inadequate, clumsy, bureaucratic. The number of social security inspectors said to be raised to 5,000 in the Tenth Development Programme is still 1,200. Most of the Department of Labor and Social Security inspectors work for administrative staff. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security is comprised of SGK controllers, SGK inspectors and inspectors. The ministry's business inspectors are only interested in business accidents. In fact, in the current practice, SGK investigators and business inspectors are conducting a work accident investigation. The Department of Labor and Social Security control units are uncoordinated. The ministry is unable to prevent off-the-books work in the country due to the lack of audit staff and this lack of coordination. Dear lawmakers, this bill came to the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission under the signature of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu as 55 articles, transferred to the subcommittee returned to the upper commission as 76 articles. The upper commission adopted the ruling party's parliamentary proposals on 89 articles, given non-related substances. Against the law-making technique in this direction and in shape, and against the Civil Code, the bill is no longer a government bill, it's a Commission bill, and one of the proposals has gone and arrived. So, unfortunately, the clauses in this bill are incompatible with law-making techniques in the Commission, so it can't be inclusive. Again, we face a bill of a bag of laws that the AKP has made a tradition. This bill envisions a change in 32 laws, such as the Building Control Act, the Landing Law, the Publicisation Act and the Securities Act, that have no relationship with each other from hiring staff in many ministries. Many substances that have nothing to do with our commission have been tried to be passed. Zonguldak is in our province and is in the district of Ceylanpınar in Şanlıurfa, Şanliurfa. However, similar problems in other parts of our country remain unresolved. I'm afraid our motions on this matter have not been accepted. Similarly, our motions, known in public as the Soma law, have been rejected by the power, unfortunately, by the same rights as those who died in the mine accident only to those who died in Soma. Again, only in the mining accident in Ermenek. Our citizens are on my website saying, "Should we die collectively too?" This is fundamentally against the social state principle of our Constitution, the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Article 2 of the Constitution. Again, when our retired citizens do a second job in their pensions, the Social Security Agency cuts 15 per cent of our pensions as social security benefits. As for my earlier proposal for the law on this matter, our motion for this bill was not taken into account by power. There is no proper study in our country under the identification of occupational diseases. There aren't many occupational hospitals. Employees do not even know if most of their diseases are occupational disease. No measures are taken. As of January 1, 2014, under the Law 6331, we find that our proposal for the postponement of the obligations of small businesses such as barbers, butchers, shoe mechanics, dental technicians to business health and safety to 1 January 2016 -- given the impossibilities of our tradesmen -- has not been assessed. However, these businesses are already financially difficult today, so they should be given time to prepare themselves to carry such a burden. Ermenek, who was affected by the mining accident in Ermenek, has failed in our attempts to delay bank loans without interest. I would also like to say that we do not find it appropriate for building control institutions to be given responsibility for occupational health and safety, to create a mix-up of authority. With this bill, it was appropriate for the worker to get married, adopt, or redesign his parents' leave due to the death of their parents. It is also fitting that children who are not 14 years old should be employed. Again, giving away the rights of our citizens who have been retired for over 30 years is a proper practice in order to address an injustice. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, to be honest with you, the classic management structure that has been maintained so far in working life has failed. He's been working off the books and he's walking. He's been waiting years for a man who's been in a work accident to get paid. No one's heard the sound of a bunch of poor people working without insurance. Control and inspection units are burdened with unnecessary workloads, audits are torn apart in working life, most of the insurance people report minimum wage to insurance instead of pay. Controllers are under influence. Health and safety measures are not being implemented. The level of those who receive severance is not even 1 in ten. Business peace is being damaged. Our country is the OECD 1st in business accidents. I'm afraid that's the way this painting is, dear MPs. In light of our assessments, many laws have actually passed from Parliament during this period, but our country has not gained any distance in working life or in other matters within the framework of the bill that we meet today, or even went back, dear friends. As I end this speech here, while wishing that the 25th term would be more successful for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that our country, our nation's interests should be studied here, that we may never meet again, that we may never see each other again -- because there are places where we don't come or see each other. There is an expression for all of you -- that we may have hurt each other here. If I have the right, I give it to all of you. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0226par0123	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the person, Mersin MP Aytug Horseman. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0227par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge to myself over the entire Bill of Law 687 rows. I salute your high council. My dear friends, the law we speak of concerns the health and safety of the work and safety of the whole of Turkey. In fact, this law, as we say during the negotiations, could have been judged with the commoners, could have come to you in a much more reciprocal way. However, it has come to you in a situation where, unfortunately, in the result of a lot of political debates, let's remove this item. And in general, when we look at this law, what we want to see is that the government has taken care of the worker. If government officials who run the state and state try to save the day or try to act as if they're doing something instead of taking care of the worker, we won't have a foursome law. However, this law is not exactly the way we want it to be, but it has come to terms with some very serious considerations. But again, during the talks of this law, we realized that there is no place for a working class in Turkey, there is no place for labor in Turkey, there is no safety in Turkey, there is no safety in the life of the worker; we understand all this. I'd like to explain to you a few examples: for example, if a doctor or a occupational health and safety expert in a workplace or in a moment of urgency or danger, he'll report it immediately. Who's he gonna report it to? He'll report it to the authorities and make it stop. Well, if there's an emergency here, not a fatal one, but a problem in the future, what's it gonna do? He'll report this, too. This law states: "If there is an emergency, if there is a fatal situation and this is reported, there will be no grounds for firing the occupational health and safety expert or the workplace physician. " Now, dear friends, the real problem here is, who does the occupational physician or occupational health and safety specialist get his salary from? He gets his job doctor's salary from the boss. Now, no matter what you do, who's going to complain about a man he's paid his salary to? Look, there's the injury. You can say as much as you want: "O physician, just let me know that I love my worker, and if there is any life-threatening danger, I will stop the work and protect you." After giving his salary to the boss, the hand of this physician or his health and safety expert cannot go to report, because even if he reports, the law can only prevent him from being fired for that moment, but then this law does not guarantee that he will get a contract of employment again. So, what's being done here, to me, is nothing more than an illusion. Now, we're protecting our worker in case of production pressure, and we're saying, if there's production pressure, we're going to stop it. Where are we going to stop it? We'll stop it in public. So, let's stop it in public, what do we do in the private sector? It's the private sector, the one that whips, the one that exploits the laborer's sweat, we all know that. How do we know? Because we're looking at business accidents, we're looking at fatal business accidents, most of them in the private sector. There's a system in the mines run by the government, there's a style, even if it's not good, but we don't see that kind of system in the mines or in the businesses run by the private sector. It's just, the boss has a whip and he's pushing the worker. So, what do we do? Sir, we can't get involved in the private sector, there are things that connect the private sector; we'll write it down. The boss wants to do it anyway, he says: I'll give you his money, you write your ticket, you go; I'll make my production to the end. You say: "We love our laborer very much. You do two things to protect the worker from death; you say, "O boss, if there is a mortal accident, I will forbid you from tendering you for two years at your workplace." So, which arms? In the arms of the mine. So, we're looking for any other killings in any other areas of business? We didn't forget about the elevator accident, the people who fell from the construction site, the people who died at the shipyard. Well, can anything be done around here? No, it won't. Why? Because it's just a mine. Why? Because the miners died collectively; because they died hand in hand, arm in hand, together, in the mine, if death happens, you forbid them to tender for two years. I mean, look, a government takes brave steps, you call it a government on its own. He takes bold steps, for the people, for the workers, for the laborers; and the steps that are taken here are cowards, and the steps that are taken here are not bold enough. They've got good stuff, we've organized the good stuff of this bill together, we've contributed, but this bill isn't brave enough for the worker. You're preventing workers from dying in some way, and you're saying, "O boss, if no one dies in your workplace for three years, we'll give you a reward." That's a very good thing, okay, so we're not enemies of the employer, and of course you have to reward the employer. So, how do you reward it? You're saying, sir, that when you pay two percent for unemployment insurance, I take it down to one percent. Come on, you're going back, you're giving the employer a reward from the employee's purse. Now, is that a good thing? If you're brave, if you're brave, if you're young, tell them to come out and tell them that we're giving it to you from the treasury. It doesn't suit me. Now, once again, we're talking about the business law, and there's a clause that comes out -- what does it have to do with the business law -- that if you have three children, we won't be taxed on your minimum wage. What does that have to do with anything? I mean, with all this work health, all this job security stuff, sir, if you have one kid, I'll reduce less, if you have two kids, I'll reduce more taxes, but if you have three children, I won't collect taxes from your minimum wage. (Dear friends, it's a shame to collect taxes from minimum wage, it's a shame to the government. However, you say, brother, that we are trying to develop tax awareness in this country. 0.5 per cent; we get a minimum wage at least 1 per thousand, symbolically. You get a tax on minimum wage, but if you go back, I won't take taxes from you. Now, my dear friends, these are the issues that have bent our necks on business health and safety. Also, you brought a health-related substance. I got into medical school in 1981. So I've been in medicine for about thirty-five years, thirty-four years, and there's been a clause in the government that we can only get out of, over and over again, to see the most senior bureaucrats in the Ministry of Health and Labor. That's what commercialized health has become. I mean, health was so commercialized that with the supplements, it showed us what you're doing with the health of this and this and that. However, I wish everyone good luck with this clause, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0228par0140	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. İstanbul MP Mehmet Domaç on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Domach.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0229par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding the proposed bill of law. I salute you. Before we begin to discuss the bill, I would like to offer my condolences to our fallen prosecutor, Mehmet Selim Kiraz, to Allah's mercy, to his family, to our nation, and to the justice community. I condemn humanity's enemy terror. I also condemn the people, institutions and organizations who strive to justify the terrorists. Dear lawmakers, our country has shown an important transformation in the past 13 years, providing a climate of trust and stability. With our dynamics, our industry, our economy, has improved, and we have risen to the world's 16th largest economy. Turkey continues to grow from economic turmoil in Europe, without being affected by the crises in Ukraine and Russia, the Middle East and North Africa. The development of our country's industry, the growth of prosperity, the rise in the competitiveness of employers in the international market, and the security of employees on the other hand is necessary for sustainable, healthy economy and growth. Despite Turkey's rapid development and entering among the world's leading countries, we also have some shortcomings compared to the development of business safety and business health countries. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are important indicators of prosperity and social development as well as measures taken on business health and job safety in the country, rather than just in a country of certain sizes when it's called the developed country in economics. The Law Bill 687, which is on the agenda at the General Assembly today, and the deficiencies found in the Law on Health and Safety Law are being resolved. In our country, arrangements are being made to prevent serious accidents such as Soma, Ermenek, from happening again. Dear lawmakers, along with this bill, are obliged to inform the Ministry immediately if the employer does not receive the necessary attentions by informing the employer of the shortcomings of occupational health and safety. Because of these notifications, the employer will not be able to terminate the contract of employment of experts and physicians, otherwise he will pay a year's contract in compensation. Another problem that arises in implementing the Law on Health and Safety is that administrative fines are insufficient. With this law, administrative fines are increased and stepping up. Again, the most important arrangement in this area is the prison sentence of three to five years for employers who are unauthorized to work in the designated workplaces. The bill makes it mandatory for business health and safety courses in universities that have graduated from the Higher Education Law to improve the lack of education, so that they can become occupational safety specialists. From now on, our young engineers will begin their engineering duties through occupational and occupational safety training. Dear lawmakers, an important provision for employers through the bill is also intended to be rewarded by companies who care about business health. The unemployment insurance premium will be 1 per cent in these workplaces for three years if there are no business accidents that have resulted in three years of mortality and constant incapacity at workplaces with more than ten employees. The bill is to pay the people who are insured and the people who lost their lives in Ermenek district from the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and provide the Ermenekians with the resources provided to the owners after the Soma accident. Under the bill, an employer in the mining sector will be banned from public tenders for two years, whose flaw was determined by a judicial decision, in a mining accident in order to encourage employers to take occupational health and safety measures, punish those who have not received them, and prevent them from taking unfair competition with other firms. Dear MPs, as you know, most of the settlements on the site of the district of Ceylanpınar, Şanlıurfa, belong to the treasury, and many of our former citizens use them to build houses, businesses, and so on. However, there are numerous administrative and legal conflicts, since the deeds of these premises are not registered to our citizens. With the bill, the problem of our citizens of Ceylanpınar will be resolved, the state's dispute with the citizens will be eliminated. Dear lawmakers, just days before the end of the 24th Legislature, I believe we should all have the support of the Law on Business Health and Safety, which includes important arrangements for the development of working life, health and safety of employees, and the immediate legalisation of the Law, and I expect important insights from all of you. With the law in effect, I wish for a Turkey free of business accidents and occupational illness, a business peace and a higher economy and prosperity level. I'm sorry if we've been reluctantly broken during the 24th term. I also wish for successful work in the 25th Legislature, if possible, to be here. I salute you, give you love.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0230par0160	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. Minister of Labor and Social Security Faruk Çelik... Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0231par0164	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. At the very beginning of this brief speech, I ask for God's mercy on Republican Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz Bey; I ask patience for his grieving family, our nation, and the legal community. Dear friends, it's a very important law, and we're at your peace again under a comprehensive law. First of all, I'd like to point out that legislature activities are extremely important. You, our fellow lawmakers, who have participated in law enforcement, realize that we are carrying out a very important mission here. It's not my law, it's the government's law, not the Minister's, it's not the law, it's the laws of our 77 million citizens. Therefore, it is our duty here to strive to achieve the best possible right within the framework of a sense of participation and to make sure that they pass through the High Assembly in agreement. And I can tell you with all sincerity that when this comprehensive law came to this point, our opposition MPs, our members of the Commission, are here, as they see themselves in a very comfortable way, we worked together for about ten days while this comprehensive law was being discussed in the subcommittee, and as Minister, not by sending my blocs -- I was personally in the work of the subcommittee of this law, we watched; it wasn't enough, we carried out our negotiations on the upper Commission; and as they came to the High Assembly, we did a lot of work yesterday and today on what could happen to be with our fellow members of the Commission. In this framework, with his opposition and his power, I thank our fellow commissioners, all of them, especially the President, who have made some very important contributions. Finally, in our assessment yesterday and today, we agreed that about 15 articles would be removed from the draft text, and there were about 15 new proposals that contributed to the enrichment of the law, to the further implementation of the law, and we have compiled all of them into the law. In this framework, I want to make it clear, of course, that we all want the laws to be perfect when we run legislatures, but in this case, according to the groups, it can also vary according to our political views, by the way we govern, by the way we govern. So I'm expressing these things in the belief that we all respect the fact that there are some differences here. What does the law bring? He brings a lot of things. Yes, the law includes the main regulation of occupational health and safety. But, in this, as the precious oratories have just expressed, our Ceylanpınar is a district of the Republic of Turkey, but it has been without deed for 90 years, a district with property issues, just like Zonguldak. When our dear friends brought this motion to the Commission about Zonguldak, of course, we said "Hayyah" and together with the participation of all groups, this arrangement passed through the Grand Assembly. Now, there's an arrangement about Ceylanpınar. There are important issues about Hilvan. There are things that are being tried to compensate the citizens for their decisions, and there are things that are being tried to compensate them for their interest. In addition to occupational health and safety, it includes important arrangements to organise these. We're bringing in some really important arrangements regarding the workplace physician regarding the occupational safety expert. In addition, the law authorises a cease-and-restraint on the non-profit of production, which is to stop the inspection. Besides, there's a two-year ban on public tenders, especially in the mines, in case of a fatal accident. The administrative fines are being increased, and there are regulations that regulate the chip system -- within the framework of the ILO-related legislation of the mine workers. Most importantly, we have what we might call a professional competence institution at the reform level. We are moving back to a time when professional standards have been set, and the standard of professions has been set, and these standards have now become practice, and they have become practice. I'll do anything now. I'm a cynical master, I'm a sarcastic employee. The term will be over, and it will now reach its universal, international standards professional standards, and at the point of seeing our work with the people who have received this document, of course, the situation of seeing things with these qualified employees, the fact that business accidents and occupational diseases will be minimal. Now, we're bringing in a non-payment tax on minimum wage with three children. Why is he here? My dear teacher expressed it. The motive may be justified in one way or another, but the minimum wage is happening within our ministry. Each year, in December, the Minimum Price Rating Commission meets and makes decisions, and one of the decisions she makes is the decision not to receive a minimum income tax from three children. We've brought a matter that's very important to us, whether we want it or not, and we've brought it up to the unions, to the social parties, where it's been decided, because it's imperative that we make a law here. Of course, leave of absence is important. We'll have your maternity leave in five days. As a result of the birth, the other member of the family takes five days off, but the main thing is that the disabled parent is allowed ten extra days of leave as a public employee. It contains many such arrangements. Another important thing, I want to finish by saying this: there's no problem with public workers, or civil servants, or disabled people, or relatives with first-degree relatives, but if you're a worker, if you're a public worker, you can't take advantage of this transport opportunity. Unfortunately, such injustice is in our legislation. The person who eliminates this includes arrangements for the transfer of disabled workers to Ankara, Ankara, Ankara, and the first-degree disabled relatives in the public. Our unions, five of our unions, when statistics are published in 2009, today will be dysfunctional if we don't make this arrangement. That's what five of our unions face when we're trying to pave the way for the organization. We're fixing this. There are regulations that bring responsibility to the municipalities in elevators that are under our administration of the Ministry of Industry. There are, there are a lot of things, all of which are important topics of our working life. Again, I'd like to thank all of the members of the Commission, all of my friends who will contribute, and I'd like to thank you for your contribution to this law again. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0232par0180	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA now. I'll take ten minutes to ask questions. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0233par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've just said that you've resolved this imbalance among the workers regarding this marriage mate transfer, but in the same way, it's related to the maternity leave, if one of the spouses is an officer, it can be allowed, unfortunately the workers can't get a maternity leave. That's the kind of distinction that needs to be resolved. I'm asking you right now, let's settle this inequality. A second question: Of course, this is the Soma and Ermenek (about the murder of this business) that has been tied to the families of our deceased workers, but it also happened in Zonguldak, Şırnak, and Yalvac. These, unfortunately, are the exceptions here. You know, according to our Constitution, all laws are made according to the principle of equality, not discriminated between people. You spend a month on mass deaths, making exceptions to those who die one by one. No moral, no law, no international contract will accept that. Don't you think you'll be able to fix this while the road is close by? Third, you're the Congresswoman of Şanlıurfa. No disabled person is allowed to go to mosques and worship because the conditions are not suitable for him, they are not available for the right to worship. That's not part of your 400 projects. Your time at the Ministry is over. When are you going to fix this? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0234par0188	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0235par0190	Mr. Secretary, since 1941, more than 3,000 of our citizens have died in mining accidents. The largest mining accident in the history of the Republic occurred on May 13, 2014, during your Ministry, in Soma, and 301 people died. China, one of the world's largest coal producers, has a total of 127 deaths per 100 million tonnes in 2008, while Turkey has a number of 722. In China, in 2008, that number was 127, and I repeat -- it fell to 37 today. Look, it's very important, it's down to 37. In the United States, 6 people per 100 million tonnes of coal were killed in the United States -- I say the maximum number -- 710 people per 100 million tonnes died in Turkey in 2000, the point that came today during AKP rule. How do you explain that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0234par0191	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0236par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you have any work to do on the rights of public employment to relatives of combat veterans? Two: 4/C and subcontractors, how did you assess their staff demands? Is that within the law? Again, do you consider any arrangement for the removal of the victims of seasonal workers? Another question: Despite the court order of contractors working on the highways, what solution did your Ministry come up with for equal rights to other public workers? What's going to happen to them? The recent allegations that there was a negotiation against severance pay have been shared with the public, and what's the situation? The final question is: After the transfer of the Kütahya Seyitömer Termic Plant housing to the State Special Administration by the Council of Ministers' decision, the jobs of nearly 50 workers working on that site were terminated. When you came to Kütahya, you were told about this matter, and you promised a solution. When will this problem be resolved? What solution do you have in mind? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0237par0200	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0238par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the institution has been transformed into a public source of income by deflecting the unemployment benefit Fund, which is its aim to provide unemployment allowance to the unemployed. As a matter of fact, according to Article 6 of unemployment insurance Act 4447, a sum of $11.5 billion has been transferred to the treasury. On the other hand, in the same article (c), the amount of revenues from investments and property sales will be determined by the Higher Planning Board, and the amount of funds used will be transferred to the Fund, provided it does not exceed the amount of resources used. What is the amount of repayment to the unemployment fund so far? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0239par0205	Thank you, Mr. Türeli. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0240par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions. Number one: How many workplaces across the country have a work opening? How do you intend to handle your employment... when that is considered for the physicians in Turkey? Second: the city of Bigeli Industries. In a city of about 14 organised industrial areas, we couldn't get rid of the problem of microsurgery disintegrations that could have been done after work accidents. Even though we've asked the Minister of Health that question... we can't perform the microsurgery because they've been severed in business accidents almost every day in the last three years. Are you planning on taking a step forward on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0241par0212	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0242par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, have you done any work to make it a priority for employees who work in bankrupt companies? Do you intend to make an arrangement or would you approve of such an arrangement in this bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0243par0217	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0244par0219	Mr. Secretary, there are rumors that the disability appointments will be held after April 16th, but there are also reports that the number of staff involved in the disability appointments is still unclear. What do you think about that? When are the disability appointments due? When will the number of recruits be set and how many casts will there be?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0243par0220	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0245par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are important arrangements in the bill, regulations that concern our country closely. First of all, on behalf of the town where I was born and raised, I sincerely thank you on behalf of Ceylanpınar. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Commissioners and all the valued MPs of Parliament. Mr. Secretary, you have explained, but is it possible to give a more comprehensive explanation of this arrangement in Ceylanpınar? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0246par0226	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0247par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, our seasonal workers, for example, have been working as seasonal workers at the Susurity Sugar Factory for 25 years, and these people can't afford to pay their pension rights or compensations. Do you think there's an injustice to their situation here, to come up with a solution? Second: When our brothers and sisters who died in Soma, when they died, when they had children and a wife, they could not provide work for their brother. Are you planning on taking a step towards this?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0248par0231	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0249par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked you last session. In Article 82 of Law 5010, dated 1/10/2008, there is no less than the amount of premium paid by the retired citizens of BUG-KUR. There is a notice, and therefore, that the majority of pensioners will be in serious debt, and they will suffer a loss. You said that you were planning to make an arrangement about this, and that you were working on the Commission, but unfortunately, we didn't see anything like this in this bag of legislation. Time hasn't passed yet. Do you have any work for this arrangement? Will you make an effort to compensate for the sacrifice of the local tradesman? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0250par0236	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0251par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in one statement, you stated that 1,300,000 insurance holders were unable to benefit from health care due to debt to the SGK, and that they were having problems with health care. How would you interpret the economic and social environment of Turkey, when we consider that there are 2,900,000 insured in our country, about 45 per cent of the insurance people are in debt? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0252par0241	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Tanal has asked why the arrangement for the transfer of spouses in the public is not about workers. That's exactly what we're doing with this law. Now, we're bringing the workers this five-day maternity leave.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0254par0246	maternity leave... maternity leave...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0247	We're bringing in five days of maternity leave right now. That arrangement is happening. Another question is that in Şanlıurfa, the disabled can't enter the mosque. Probably because the physical conditions aren't available.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0254par0249	They don't have toilets.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0250	This is, of course, something we can share with the local executives. Hopefully, we'll evaluate it with them. As for 400 projects: I advise all our friends who are interested in politics and who are interested in politics to enter the elections with a lot of force. I'll tell you what, it's not harmful. In the next week, we're going to share what we've done in four years about 400 projects with the Şanliurfaans, and you'll see that we've come out white and we've distributed the pamphlets. It's a big deal. It's not random, yes, you have to leave with an election statement with a specific target. That's what we did in 2011, and we're at that comfort right now. What needs to be done has been done. 301 of our workers lost their lives in Soma. That's why business accidents are so high. That's the point of these meetings, of these studies, of bringing these accidents down. What is this? In minimizing business accidents, in reducing them -- the goal is to eliminate them -- the first goal is to address the lack of legislation. We passed a comprehensive law on lack of legislation in 2012. And today, we bring to you a law that, again, involves important arrangements to address shortcomings in this matter. In addition, contracts 155, 161, 167, 177, 176 and 189, which should be signed with the size of international contracts, have been signed. Thus, we have reached a point in Turkey where there is no shortage of legislation. Sir, we should have come in 1970. If it had been in 1980, if it had been in 1990.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0255par0253	In 2003, for example.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0254	Instead of talking about it so much that it didn't happen, we want these regulations to come out with excitement while the Supreme Assembly closes this term. Why? We're doing this to further lower the current situation in business accidents, the painting, and the current picture in occupational diseases. Since 1992 in Turkey -- when you look at today's statistics -- the number of workers has increased, although the number of jobs has increased, 1,000-1. We see 200 workers lose their lives every year. This number is a high number. In this period, it's high, it's low. It doesn't mean anything. There's no way to respect a person's death, especially if it wasn't an accident. You all know we're taking this in the harshest terms that need to be said. But it's not just the size of the law. A sensitive employer is needed. If the employer is not sensitive, how will being very good at your legislation solve the problem? The third leg is that our employee, our employee, is in a qualified position, so it's a good upbringing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0255par0256	Organization, organization, organization...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0257	There are three important issues: now, we complete the legislation, we complete it. Employer... you're stopping 1,600 of 2,000 businesses from building. So if 2,000 constructions are being stopped, we have the picture in front of us in terms of the employer, the construction industry employers, the way they look at things, the safety of work, the way they look at work. In that case, this insensitivity needs to come out of this ignorance, and our employers need to act within the framework of awareness. I've just made it clear from the podium that our employees are qualified employees. For this reason, the Employment Agency has established standards for this, and we are now starting to implement them. You'll see, the qualified employee, employee and responsible employer and the modern-day law trio will provide infrastructure for the level of business accidents that we care about in the developed countries today, and that's our struggle. Otherwise, with his opposition and his power, there's no way that anyone's heart won't be hurt by these painful paintings, but it's about contributing to the solution. And here I want to express with all sincerity that we have always contributed to these arrangements with the great House, its opposition and its power. Now, another issue was the victims of 4/C. I've said that a few times. We have made important arrangements regarding our brothers and sisters - 23,000 employees. There's no problem with the job guarantees. The main problems, the biggest problems I've worked on this year, but if the Council of Ministers doesn't issue the decision in January, what will I be if the business is terminated? They say, "What will I be?" Now they have a job guarantee until they retire. It was an important step, an important arrangement. Second, they had serious problems with their wages and were unable to receive family help. We gave them family assistance, which was their right in the collective agreement, and we gave them a 40 per cent increase in their wages. Now between $1,450 and $1,800, the people of 4/C are now working in public, and given that there's a collective contract process next August, I hope they'll meet their prices. There's, of course, a situation where, when you say 4/C, there used to be some negative aspects of this status because of the privatisation of these personnel and because they worked for ten months, but when 4/C was eliminated, the 4/A/A citizen that we now know had access to these rights as well. We've arranged for subcontractors, we've done it together again. Let me put it this way: we've made an arrangement that distinguishes the actual work and the work of the co-worker, and we've given the Council of Ministers a mandate to publish these subsidiaries.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0256par0263	But he couldn't.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0264	Now, that couldn't be done, I agree. The reason is that information from all public institutions, from all social parties will come, and it will turn into a decision from the Council of Ministers. After that, there will be no further interference with the work and the work that we make. I mean, if an assistant manager hires a guy who's supposed to be running a job, that manager's gonna get five times what he's getting, there's gonna be other jobs. Thus, the co-worker will now remain a co-worker, while the real worker will be employed as a staff member.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0256par0265	The people who work on the highways...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0266	In addition, as a result of judicial decisions, one of the decisions made by the highways, particularly by the highways, is in the judiciary... one of the decisions made by the judiciary in which it was brought to justice as a result of the fact that it was the real work. They made it very clear that they had been recruited during their visit to Turkey's largest trade union, Turk-İSK. They'll make a detailed statement about it themselves. But as the relevant union, workers and ministry, we have completed an assessment that we have reached a compromise as governments and ministries, and that they should be recruited in accordance with the needs of the Highways. But of course our Prime Minister will explain the details. Secondly, those who have won the case in other institutions as being a regular employee, if they're in that institution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you need a staff, if you need a staff, if you need them to be evaluated, not compensated, we've completed an arrangement that will radically solve past-turning problems before the law comes out.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0257par0270	You're going to put the men out of business?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0258par0271	You started it in 2008, it wasn't there before.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0253par0272	We have questions here from our other friends, but I'm going to answer these questions in this time period. Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0259par0274	Don't lose your job, Mr. Secretary. Don't lose your job.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit06spe0260par0275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are now complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0260par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our negotiations with Bill 687. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. Ankara MP Izzet Çetin will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0261par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, in the 24th Legislature of Parliament, we discussed two important laws at the end. We met someone, made them law. After enslaving a tyrant's domestic security bill, we are now discussing a delicate, embarrassing, labor health and occupational security bill. Based on the bill -- you've heard the talks on all of them -- really, it contained unacceptable arrangements. The minister also said that while the work has seemed to have taken place since two days ago, it has been based on the work killings in Soma and Ermenek. It has been transformed into a bag of laws and laws that contain changes in the law, as if there are no problems in working life. Indeed, the bill was based on the deaths of miners who lost their lives in the Soma and Ermenek killings, but in particular in mines, often in many sectors, it was designed with the goal of taking care of business health and security. But when you look at it, there's not the smallest regulation of the redevans system, which is the source of the actual work killings. Unfortunately, it doesn't provide the smallest preventive function of the subcontractor operating system. Again, when this bill was looked inside, as in previous drafts, the necessary measures for labour health were given to occupational safety experts and workplace physicians to check whether employers were taking them, and they were obliged to make notifications. If he doesn't do it, it may be criminal, but an arrangement to make them independent of the employer is not done despite all our insistence. Again, dear friends, truly, I know that these deadly work killings have made us all feel guilty. Even our statistics on this aren't accurate. Mr. Zozani just gave numbers in his speech, so he told me year after year who lost their lives in the work murders in 2014. These numbers seem right at first glance, but these numbers don't mean the truth, dear friends. The Social Security Agency explains the statistical information of those who died of occupational accident and occupational illness, but in these statements, the Social Insurance Act 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act are limited to Article 4/1-a. The off-the-books area is not included, nor are their own employees involved. I mean, we're not going to brag about 2,000 deaths, but we're going to have to give you these numbers because you're shy and cautious about taking precautions. Indeed, the official number appears to have lost nearly 14,000 workers as of 2014, but when you look at the actual SEC statistics, when you study occupational illness and the deaths in business accidents on file, the number rises to 20,799, dear friends. Of course, all of this tells us that our country's urgent need was not the law of domestic security, but the law of occupational safety, but those who draft this bill reveal a mindset that does not understand the true causes of the work killings, so there are many shortcomings. For example, there was no arrangement anywhere in the world that intended to punish the worker, the employee, in order to prevent work killings, occupational accidents. Of course, the wrong account returns from Baghdad. It is said that I thank the Minister for his approach yesterday. Indeed, it was good for him to withdraw the item that had to work at work for low wages, under obligation to do so, that perhaps his ear would hurt his ear, that perhaps his helmet would be narrow to his head, so he broke it or broke it. Dear friends, again, we're talking logic here. In fact, it's as if there's a mortal mining operation in the public, in the tender business and there's no private sector, but there's been a demand to make arrangements for the public sector. Now, when you look at the job killings in Turkey, the construction and the mines come in the 1st place, so this bill is very far from preventing the killings around here, I just told you. This may be good, but you've got a lot of populist regulations that have nothing to do with business legislation, labor health, job safety, or close arrangements. So, I have to be very clear and clear that you're doing a full populist policy by leaning on Soma and Ermenek -- it's going to be a year from now -- and we're still talking about it, and we're still talking about it -- it's not just trying to give the workers their compensation, so it's customary not to give it to them -- and you're doing it. So, one of the deceased former Ministers of National Education, the founder of village institutions, Hasan Ali Yücel, has a very beautiful saying that political elections are considered by politics -- just as the Prime Minister, AKP, thinks about future generations, thinks about future generations. Now, you're not making an arrangement for the future in this bill; how do we get the elections tomorrow, two months from now... You haven't given the pensioners anything so far, so let's give the pensioners 100 lira or we'll take it, sir...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0262par0019	It happens when you give two bonuses.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0261par0020	No, you've been in power for thirteen years, Mr. Barber, and we've been shouting here for thirteen years, and nowhere in the world, employees are not punished, social security premiums are not taken. Well, we'll give you two paychecks. Retired made this country this way, they worked yesterday. We'll give it to them, and we'll make sure it's as good as their mother's milk. We said give it to you. When are you giving it to me? When the CHP tries to give it, I will withdraw the social security benefit from 15 per cent to 10 per cent. We've had it in our election declarations since 3 semesters, we'll reset these social security benefits, we'll remove them. We say, "Yes, we'll give the pensioners 2 pay bonus on Ramadan and Victims' Holidays." Look, you're making an arrangement here, and you're making a minimum income reduction of 7.5% per child per child, and 10 per child per child. So, what's the discrimination between children? If you're gonna do it, that's how you do it for every kid. Here perhaps the most beautiful arrangement is a one-word arrangement. What is this? In universities, in the fields, in professions, in professions, in vocational studies, the study of labor health and safety classes, the arrangement for this, perhaps this is the one-faced article of this thing, Mr. Secretary. Beyond that -- my friends have also pointed out -- every time you think of something, Mr. Secretary of the Insurance Fund. You're saying I'm going to transfer senior compensation to the fund. Al, there's a fund here, you're trying to use the unemployment benefit as an incentive for employers. It comes to your mind, you say, "Ya, let's pay for the Soman workers from here." Friends, the Soma and Ermenek catastrophes have destroyed the lungs of 77 million of our citizens in this country. As a whole nation, if it's a pain in our conscience, let's put up with it together. Let's not be unconscionable about the suffering of Soma, of Ermenek, of the poor, poor, underpaid Fund of Unemployment. Indeed, these provisions will serve no purpose other than the government's populist arrangements for the elections two months after they organise occupational health and safety. I say we have a hard time understanding why you're avoiding the rights of the fired workers, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0263par0027	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0264par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the first chapter of Business Health and Safety Act 687. I hereby salute the grand jury. Making arrangements on occupational health and occupational safety was in fact a recent bill in order to introduce a community in the previous period, and despite all our objections in this grand assembly, despite all our objections, we have adopted you and the General Assembly as a integrity of the Business Safety Act. But every time, especially after the great disaster in Ermenek, especially the Soma of all Turkey, we also thought of doing something new after the job murder. Thus, those who ignored our words in there agreed that some things were necessary, that they needed to organize other things, and they made such a bill, feeling responsible for redecorating them. It is also sad to say that we have been again faced with AKP classics in subcommittees, which are involved in every ministry of this bill, which has come into the Commission in accordance with the law, while in fact in Turkey, without having had enough to discuss in the main research commissions, without having had enough to discuss it, your former illness nullify by nullifying a number of measures taken at the workplace safety point. In fact, I felt that it was not wise for me to consider how occupational safety experts were identified in Turkey at one time, what occupational safety experts could work in which workplaces were defined; how little, medium, very dangerous classes were evaluated by the West as they were defined; and especially in our regulations, there were accidents in other areas -- in other areas -- which could be avoided -- in very dangerous areas -- and in those areas. Occupational security experts, we always say, if they're employees of the bosses, we shouldn't be fooling ourselves in this way by imitating it like the United States, Germany, Western countries. Whatever the real reality of Turkey is, we need to assess it at that minimum. If we really have a job security expert at the boss's disposal, he's always at his disposal, and he's got to remember that you're always worried that he's gonna kick you out in a small way. So we have to work together to see who's the occupational safety expert, who's the boss, who's the responsibilities given to the workplace physicians, who are their responsibilities to, who are the sanctions, what are the reasonable and what should be the answers to these problems that prevent business accidents? We know that you are tasked with co-operation with occupational safety specialists and occupational physicians at the workplaces, risk assessments, work environment surveillance, training, information, relevant units. Experts take charge of their workplaces. In carrying out this assignment, we say they have to stay out of the employer-employee relationship, assess the workplace according to objective values, and report inappropriate situations to the ministry. However, when experts' boss is an employer, we can see that during this process, the fear of loss of work is seen in the most important of problems, and in the events that we have experienced in the past. In fact, dear friends, scientific data indicates that the majority of business accidents, as well as a few, are preventable by 95-98 percent. But for some reason, we're trying to maintain the work and the continuity of the business world with an understanding that protects employers, protects employers, makes the effort cheap, makes subcontractorship public. In particular, the state has to take over the employment and social and financial rights of business safety professionals in very dangerous working areas. You can either do this directly by the government, or you can create a fund, and if business accidents actually cause fatal business accidents here, you can re-sign to the employer, it's not that hard. But you can't insist on not doing that, especially not comparing them to other areas in the Constitution. I mean, you can't equate the situation with them on business security just because they're from the employer in some areas. No occupational safety specialists, no financial advisors, no legal advisors. It's because it's the human life that's at stake. If we think and accept that human life is above all else, then we must take our precautions accordingly. In this bill here, I would like to say that in particular, I find the Minister's efforts to withdraw or compromise certain articles with the opposition positive. However, when we're making a law here, we call it Soma and Ermenek; well, in the mines, the time before that, or the time after that -- of course, we don't want God to show it -- is there any point in making laws for those who die in accidents? I mean, people who work very dangerous jobs in this country, not other people, whether they're in the construction industry, or in the mining arm, or in the mine branch, if they're prepared in a law-making integrity, they'll find out who's entitled. So, whether the accident happened before or now, does it involve accidents that will occur until the law goes into effect, and I think such an argument is completely absurd. So I think it would be better to look at it with a complete understanding if there are legal rights here for people whose lives are preeminent, who have lost their lives as a result of business accidents. Again, for three years in this bill, when there are no accidents at a workplace, you talk the employer there out of paying half of what he should pay the unemployment fund; from 2% to 1%, you arrange the part to be transferred to the unemployment fund. I want to make it clear that this arrangement is not right. If, indeed, there were no accidents here at a workplace, if you want to give an award to the employer, you must stop putting the unemployment fund on the backs of the unemployed, and as the state should do, you must meet the deficit here by the treasury. In addition to mining accidents, the arrangement must also include other heavy working branches and dangerous business branches. Of course, the job safety certificates... after the job law was established, we needed a job security expert to pull down a lot of numbers. But in general, we always make arrangements after that, because we care more about what happens to us as a nation, not the account or the advice ahead. In fact, what we need to do here, really, is give you these job safety certificates, but while I'm here, although I'm saying that it's perfectly appropriate to prevent business accidents in schools and put a clause in the curriculum concerning occupational safety expertise -- I think the areas where the job safety certificates are given should be carefully inspected. We've expressed it before, the employment of a business professional from which profession, which field he graduated from, is one of our major problems. There's a certain line of work, and if you hire someone who has a job security certificate that has nothing to do with that line of work, if you hire them as a business safety expert there, something will happen again, and then we'll have to make new arrangements again. Although there is a downside, of course, everyone knows that the majority of other positive substances in particular are election investments, so there are items here that have been set up for election purposes to send a message to certain places ahead of the upcoming June 7th elections. While I find them positive, I feel that his place and time are not included in this bill, I salute the high council.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0265par0044	Thank you, Mr. Oz. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0266par0047	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our People's Democratic Party Group on the first part of the bill of amendments to the Health and Safety Act. As our other talker friends mentioned, during a new election, and especially during a new election period, Mr. Labour Minister has made an extraordinary effort to bring about a new arrangement for the health and safety of this worker, and we have held meetings for as long as possible in a consensus, for two days. But as it turns out, when we look at the exit logic of this whole bag of legislation, it's not enough that we compromise, of course, that even though we've reached a compromise in the healing arrangements brought on some issues, as I've already told the Minister, in this country, it will not be possible to prevent the killings of workers, injury, professional illness, as long as there's a national strategy for safety flexibility that hides behind concepts. So, for the first time in our country, there was a law that had been made that had been condemned -- Law number 6331 -- but there was also a lack of law, and it was spoken, and Soma became, and after Soma came the first bag law. The subcontractors' pain has become widespread, not enough, the disaster in Ermenek has happened, and now we're talking about the second bag of law on business health and safety. It's a bag, but the life, the health of the worker, the bottom of this bag, literally, call it in, so you can find it. Really, now, just now, Mr. Secretary, I mean, these laws don't come out for me or for our government, they come out for our people. Logic in general, of course, has to be this way, but in particular... we're new to the business community, the employers, the boss class, we're new to new practice, we're going to take turns doing it all for him. But, of course, in the face of the reputation of this wealthy class, the life of the worker is not worth the safety of the worker at all. So even with these regulations, the Ministry's approach, the approach of the capital class really involves disability and disability. Now, look, the Ministry of Labor has been broadcasting public spots for some time, you know, for sensitivity and awareness. I'd like to give you an example of why it doesn't prevent murders in this head. Now, an example is being given, and we're watching on TV, and the worker -- it's going to be a child -- says: "We're building a ship, there's a gas leak that's dangerous to leave in the tank, there's no gas measurement necessary for the work permit, because the supervisor is in a hurry for the gas measurement. The welder goes in, there's an explosion, but what's called after that, there's no such thing as writing on the bottom, there's no such thing as an accident. Now, that's the wisdom, that's the advice we give, that's the conclusion, that's the determination. Why is there an explosion, a gas pool measurement, and why isn't the Ministry checking instead of a job where he needs permission to do so? They don't explain it, but you take precautions, no business accidents. Now, after this is our message to the public, these murders will not be prevented here. Look, the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council announced a new list of these murders in March, the death of 139 in March. 13 are female workers, 126 are male workers. There are 35 construction workers, 4 of them children, 16 of them migrant workers, and we're looking at a total of 351 workers in January, February, March. Now, Soma has been spoken, 301 miners; then Ermenek has been spoken, they have created infinitives in society, but after that, how many Soma have become, how many Ermeneks? We're looking at it now, now that the government is under pressure, it's taking all of these arrangements in an index with mining and underground work because it created an influx in society, it's bringing them up here. However, the most dangerous business is the mining, construction and agriculture industry with business accidents. Construction and agriculture are never mentioned. In particular, the items brought in include this period of compensation, in terms of the duration of these mining accidents. Now, look, valuable lawmakers, that's no way to prevent a job killing. Why do we say that? Now, a tracking system in the mines, the chip system, is being brought in; it's a step forward. But what does it say about the execution? From 1/1/2016. So they're going to prepare now. How long has this been talked about? How many years has it been? But by 1/1/2016, there may still be accidents in the mines, and they may be neglected, and workers may die again. Our friends just told me, there's an arrangement: a workplace physician, a occupational safety expert. They have all the responsibility, they have the duty of reporting, but the boss is in charge, and they get paid there. How do you guarantee these things, have protective substances? Oh, and if he makes a statement about it, he's entitled to compensation if he gets fired. It's obviously not going to work, it's not possible to apply. The administrative fines brought in. So the fines set out for the employer's failure to comply with these obligations are not on a deterrent scale. Even though some increases have been brought in, there is no way that he could go to any trouble that would increase the cost of production and increase the cost of labour due to these fines. We've always said, have professional organisations' opinions, suggestions been taken into consideration? Have such experts been given a role in training? And there's no answer. Look, occupational health, safety defects, application disorders; this second bag is being prepared on a number of problems, but we're looking at the logic of the bag, there's flexibility to the worker, there's some obligation to the worker, and there's another taskloading. But what about the employer? There's incentive, there's forgiveness. Once again, he's been given time for not doing these assignments, so there's been no accident at your workplace for three years, so good for you. He's been given a discount on the premium he should pay. We're looking at the usual logic in all of them, the unemployment benefit. That's what's being scratched, that's what's being emptied. So, once again, we're bringing back what the employer has already left blank, what the equity class hasn't paid, what he's been avoiding. It's not acceptable. Even if there were partial arrangements, in all logic, whether it's night work, or retreating, it's a matter of child labor that's been discussed, it's impossible to see health here. The capital world wants hired workers. Private employment office is at the door. We're bringing in the minimum income discount for three children. Now, here's a political motive. So, when the minimum wage income tax cuts are three children, that family of workers will be relieved? Are the families of laborers without children or working families with two children living a very hard life? It's not acceptable. Look, it's May 1st, Labor Day. In order to prevent work killings, to prevent this corruption of capital, to deal with these occupational diseases, injuries, job murder, the diseases of capitalism, the working class must celebrate, to celebrate, to stop capitalization. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0267par0062	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. On behalf of him, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0268par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of bag number 687. On this occasion, I salute you all. As is known, this law contains regulations that predict changes in certain laws related to the Law on Health and Safety. I wish to see that we consider it positive for business health and safety in our employees and workplaces, and that Mr. Secretary's compromises and legalisation of the General Assembly as quickly as possible are the goods we see fit for. However, in addition to the arrangements that have been made, I would like to remind Mr. Secretary of State that some of the issues that have not yet been brought to the General Assembly's agenda despite the commitments made so far, may we perhaps be able to resolve some of them during these talks? I would like to say that I will be searching for some of them. Number one: There are serious problems in that region, especially since the 4/C/C/C/Ceconian and subcontractorial regulations remain unfortunately inadequate, in many parts of our country, especially since my constituency has become dense about the Kütahya mine. Following the privatisations, these workers are being sent to institutions as ▪4/C (C) and their suffering is increasing day after day. On the other hand, we were unable to compensate for the victims of seasonal farm workers. It is not appropriate for this country to employ these people for five months and twenty-nine days, leaving them out of work in the remaining six months, because the resources of this country are being pulled from one side, while the workers are being withdrawn from providing employment for our unemployed youth. Again, I asked the Minister, and he answered in part. But since there were subcontractors on the highways and they were employed in the main workforce, the judicial decision confirmed that they had to be taken to the status of the staff worker, but nearly three or four years have passed, and so far the rights of these workers have not been handed over. Another issue: the pensioner's SEC bonus cuts have been going on for years, many of our pensioners are victims. Despite our warnings, even though Mr. Secretary has promised us the previous bag of legislation, we will arrange it gradually. Despite what he said, there is no arrangement. At the end of the challenge, 15 percent falls to 10 percent. Mr. Secretary, is that so hard to lift? I mean, do you really think these people work because their pension is too high and they're not satisfied with it? No, they're working because they can't afford a pension, because they have a child, a grandson, and other relatives that he has to take care of. For him, we find it appropriate to remove this social security agency bonus cut completely. Another important issue: people who live in retirement, who are old, who are full of bonuses, who have paid their premiums, but who are not old enough to expect retirement have not been solved. Since these people don't work, and they don't pay bonuses, they're having trouble getting services from both their families and health care institutions. We need to solve these problems. Again, you promised us this, and we're going to solve it on a scale. But unfortunately, you haven't taken a step forward, you haven't solved it, and you continue to victimize these people. Minister, another issue is being persecuted and tormented by reports repeated to our disabled citizens every year. He received a 70 percent disability report last year, a year's over, he's sending the SGK to the hospital, he's down to 15 percent, so we're cutting him off. These people are suffering serious losses running from that hospital to that hospital. Therefore, this matter must be reconnected with the rules and prevented from being victimized. We'll continue to talk about our other proposals in the motions section. I wish you good night again.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0269par0078	Thank you, Mr. Light. Now we're going to question-answer. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0270par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a representative of the staff in this arrangement. Regarding the representative of these employees, reports, warnings, and the representative working on this has no guarantee. When the employee representative doesn't have any guarantees, what's here? Eight months' salary. He pays eight months' salary or four months' salary. Is that a guarantee? I mean, at least it shouldn't be fired unless there's a business inspector's report on this as stated in the French system. I mean, let's not let the extradition suit get in the way of the trial, but let's make sure that it's guaranteed by the employees. Why don't you bring that assurance? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0271par0084	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0272par0086	Mr. Secretary, we're making some changes in occupational safety, occupational health laws. You've just stated that the right to organise changes will be removed, you want to remove obstacles, and you've been working for years. You also stated that you have been working on overworking or resolving shortcomings in this matter. Now, when we look at the people we're legislating with, the stenographers are working with us for 24 hours. Our friends who serve us at the teahouse work 24 hours a day. Our friends, who broadcast online on the back of the Capitol TV, broadcast live until seven, broadcast online after seven, work with us for 24 hours, 18 hours, 20 hours. Now, besides, all these friends of ours don't charge $1.00 overtime for these hours. Is that your area of interest or not? If we're talking about labor, labor, shouldn't we be compensated? Why isn't there a precaution for all of this? These guys...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0271par0089	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0273par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there was a strike decision at the Metal-Business Union of the United Metal-Work Union in Gebze district, which was heavy. This strike decision has been postponed by your government to the Council of Ministers due to national security. For two-and-a-half months, no disclosure has been made, even though union officials have been applying to the authorities and the State Department. Do you have a defence on this matter, even though your ministry, even your government, has passed two and a half months -- regarding the right of workers from the Constitution? A second question: How do you intend to end a study in the Gebze region about the failure of 638 workers to receive severance pay? You know the subject, you brought it to the Council of Ministers, and I appreciate your concern, but we got nothing.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0274par0094	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0275par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, some of our citizens under this general health insurance claim that loans have been made for periods when they haven't been tested for income or working backwards, and that there are serious penalties. How is this subject possible with a solution to the issue of repayment? How will these people be compensated? Secondly: Is it true that some media organs are also involved in the alleged death of Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was reportedly killed by terrorists in the Caspian Courthouse? The D.A. claims they didn't do an autopsy. If it wasn't done, why wasn't it done? If it was done, what's the autopsy? Was he really killed by a police bullet or a terrorist bullet? There's a serious public unrest. Would you care to make a statement about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0276par0100	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0277par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. This article is not an arrangement for the employee representative, but an arrangement for the occupational safety expert, which regulates his competencies and responsibilities, and, in addition to his eight-month compensation, the occupational safety expert is obliged to inform the Ministry of urgent and dangerous situations. He's going to report that he's brokering a sudden inspection and not having a work accident there. Now, there's an additional year's worth of compensation on this issue. Therefore, if an employer gets a job because the occupational safety expert has done his duty, he will face a minimum of 20 months' compensation. This, in a sense, comes from the employer. This is an important provision for the safety of the occupational safety expert. On another subject: a question came about the union, the strike and the United Metal-Business. It's about the judge. Those processes continue. The decision made by the Council of Ministers may then be subject to an assessment. As for the employees of the world -- as you've expressed -- we've actually listened to friends, we've taken care of them. However, our current legislation requires that a monthly gross salary remain with the employer in exchange for 12 months of work each year. The employer continues to use the worker's money. I've said over and over again that this system needs to be changed. But, I believe, in the 25th-century Parliament, it will now have a will to change the order that operates against the worker. We're looking at a very serious number on our citizens who don't take their income tests. General health insurance was adopted on 1/1/2012. In this arrangement for those who have not had their income test for more than two years from that day, we say: 'Come, take the income test.' If your public health services will be covered, he will appear, and if not, you will continue to pay your premiums. As for your remaining debts and your debts, if your health is to be paid by the public, debts will be expunged. No, it's not that, if you're subject to a certain amount of testing, we're going to eliminate your interest. We're going to bring this arrangement in, and it's going to come to a radical solution. Of course, there's no way to answer your statements about the late D.A.'s office with my current knowledge, and it's not true. It is always appropriate for our interested friends to answer the matter in detail, based on knowledge, based on the document. I'm going to pass that question on to them. In addition, pensioners were raised between $ 75 and $100 in 2003, and 60 euros were raised in 2010 and 2011, as a result of the recent aid hikes. In 2003, an increase of 30 per cent in the SEC monthly, 67 per cent in the BUG-KUR trade month, 151 per cent in the BUG-KUR agricultural monthly. So, in addition to not getting pensioners crushed by inflation from 2003 to today, we continue with the same determination to move the lower income groups up and tighten the income shears here, as well as to increase inflation. Another issue is a low statement that the retired BUG-KURLFers are working with active workers, not with retired BUG-KUR. It was expressed in a complicated way. One important issue was asked, and the return of 11.5 billion TL, which was transferred to GERP, according to the temporary 6th article of Law 4447, will be provided by the High Planning Board. We have made the legal arrangement. I also want to say that there is no return to the fund in that sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit07spe0278par0112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0278par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our negotiations with Bill 687. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 1. Now, the two motions I'm going to read are the same thing, and I'm going to process them together, but I'm going to make separate promises in case of demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In the case of the changes in certain Laws and Laws under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Act 687, which has been changed by Article 1 of the Article 20/6/2012, which has been changed by Article One of the Law on Health and Safety Act 6331 and has been mentioned in the second article of Article 8 of the Law on Business Health and Safety, "it is reported to the Ministry's office that the failures to stop or to stop the emergency failures or that fire, implosion, chemical spill, and such life-thresponsibility may be taken into action by the employer if necessary measures are not taken by the occupational physician or occupational security officer or the department's office." We offer and propose that his testimony be changed in the following manner. Kadir Gökmen Öğüt İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Sinan Aygün Musa Pine Aytüg Thrower "In the event that the reported shortcomings and setbacks require urgent halting, or fire, explosions, chemical spills, and similar life-threatening environments that may lead to occupational disease, the employee representative will be notified by the Ministry's department, if not the official union representative, if there is one, if there is one, if there is one, when the employer does not take the necessary measures." The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the change in Article 1 of Article 8 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety No. 6331, which envisions a change in the second and fifth jokes. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür (2) 'The occupational physician and occupational safety expert assigned to the employer to provide technical guidance and advice and informs the employer of lack of health and safety in terms of legislation and technical developments in his workplace. The employer is responsible for correcting shortcomings and setbacks, for implementing measures and recommendations. In the event that the measures are not taken by the employer, despite the failures and shortcomings reported by the employer, when the occupational physician or occupational security expert is notified to the ministry's authority unit, and if there is a entity labour union, the entity will be issued immediately to the labour union and its employees and all workers, and it will also be announced to the employees in a place where they can see it. The certificate of the occupational physician and occupational safety expert, which has not been reported, is suspended for three months and again for six months. A contract of employment is also suspended for this period, with the suspension of the certificate of the occupational physician or occupational safety expert in the following cases, and the contract of employment cannot be terminated solely on this basis and cannot be lost in any way. Otherwise, the employer will be entitled to compensation, no less than a year's contract fee. The rights of the occupational physician or occupational safety expert are reserved according to business laws and other laws." Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0279par0030	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0278par0031	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0280par0032	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the 1st Amendment to Business Health and Safety Act 687. I salute the General Assembly. In this bill, we can see that with the concept of occupational health and safety, the priority is not to protect workers from work accidents and occupational illness, but to run the business. According to the AKP government, which brought the bill to the General Assembly, it is essential that the work be conducted healthy and secure. Labor health doesn't even have a name. As all arrangements have shown, the perspective of capital is also dominant. Dear lawmakers, labour health and work safety are directly related to economic policies that are mainly implemented across the country and are encouraged by the government. At the site of the construction site of Soma, Ermenek mines and Grandsons, the massacres of great workers that have shaken Turkey and made it necessary for the government to go to a law amendment, are based on business practices based on economic policies that the government prefers based on the neoliberal capital savings regime. Because it's the main reason they've imposed privatisation, non-union, off-the-booking, subcontractorization, in response to the needs of capital over the years, in all sectors and in every workplace. The same regime also brings the spread of unsecured working methods that threaten the health and safety of employees, the exploitation of women and children, increased employment, the need for investments in the field and the audits specified in the laws. The coercion of production to compete with growth and global markets, long hours, labour costs, and, depending on that, savings from the work health and work safety pencil, are the basis for worse working conditions, including accidents. The Honorable Law on Health and Safety carried out the claim to include all employees in accordance with the ILO Conventions 155 and 161 and the Framework Director of the European Union 89/391. He also aims to reduce business accidents and occupational illness, as part of risk assessments by a workplace physician and occupational safety expert. However, this bill contradicts the EU framework directive. The bill, which claims to cover all employees, did not initially include some jobs and activities, especially domestic services, without reasonable grounds, in conflict with the international arrangements mentioned. Dear lawmakers, the right of employees to live, maintain, and develop their material and spiritual existence is taking its basis from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and fulfilling the state's obligations to the individual in order to find this right to exist. In particular, occupational medicine, which is vital to the implementation of Law 6331, and occupational safety experts, not only their activities but also their upbringings, have been excluded and left at the mercy of the market. On the other hand, when workplace medicine and occupational safety specialists are launched through joint health and safety units, the approach is now preferred, not the preventive one, but the cheap one. Precious lawmakers have remained on paper, except for a limited number of workplaces where collective agreements are held, in a geography where unemployment, lack of security and non-responsibility are so common. Again, business accidents and occupational illness continue with the tendency to increase reduction, let alone decline in such a process. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces a very negative picture in terms of working life, which both the government and the public must focus on with extraordinary precision. Turkey is at the top of the world in the work killings, in the deaths of workers. In or out of the workplace, working, coming and going to work, housing, feeding, recording work accidents in all business processes, and making extensive, structural and legal arrangements to prevent new workers' deaths in this matter, again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0281par0047	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0282par0048	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit08spe0281par0049	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0281par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends was not enough to vote on the 1st article of the Law Bill 687 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading two motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In the case of the changes in certain Laws and Laws under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Act 687, which has been changed by Article 1 of the Article 20/6/2012, which has been changed by Article One of the Law on Health and Safety Act 6331 and has been mentioned in the second article of Article 8 of the Law on Business Health and Safety, "it is reported to the Ministry's office that the failures to stop or to stop the emergency failures or that fire, implosion, chemical spill, and such life-thresponsibility may be taken into action by the employer if necessary measures are not taken by the occupational physician or occupational security officer or the department's office." We offer and propose that his testimony be changed in the following manner. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends "In the event that the reported shortcomings and setbacks require urgent halting, or fire, explosions, chemical spills, and similar life-threatening environments that may lead to occupational disease, the employee representative will be notified by the Ministry's department, if not the official union representative, if there is one, if there is one, if there is one, when the employer does not take the necessary measures." The signatures of the other motion are: Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? Yes, we agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0283par0016	We agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0284par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0285par0018	We'll talk.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0286par0019	I'm reading the reason: The aim was to improve the conditions that could cause occupational illness at workplaces and inform the employee representative of the emergency and life-threatening defects, which were not determined by the employer, and if there is one, the official union representative. Yes, Mr. Cetin... If you'll just be quiet, Congressmans... Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0287par0025	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Minister has just told me that there is real work in article 1. He said, there is no denying the effort. It may have been studied, but we've made a motion, and even the motion can't fix the substance. Maybe it's well-intentioned, but it's practically impossible to implement. In Labor Health and Occupational Safety Act 6331, we -- there was already a workplace physician for their workplaces -- but in the past laws -- we brought a status called occupational safety expertise. We've documented it with a type A, type B, type C certificate. At work, in a way, we have left them in charge of whether employers take the necessary measures in terms of working health and safety. Now, we're talking about shortcomings in this arrangement. For once, we'd only take a fraction of what was missing, a fraction of what was missing. So there's an emergency, if there's a danger, he'll report it to the employer. There is an emergency. Now, if there is a union in charge -- there, of course, the unions have melted, disappeared -- if there is no union, then it has been accepted by these motions to report it to the representative of the workers. That's nice, but missing friends, you're going to report it to the Ministry. Who's gonna do it? Seeing that the employer has not taken the necessary work health and safety measures, the occupational safety expert will report the ministry's employer. What happens at the end of the complaint? In return, if fired, there will be an eight-month compensation or an additional year's compensation. Dear friends, there are employers in our country who put thousands of workers at the door for severance or other reasons. On the grounds that he does not take a security measure that will be a burden to him financially, he puts an employer at his door to intimidate and intimidate occupational health care professionals, and he pays the compensation. What had to be done was I told Mr. Secretary -- and I've been a friend of yours who's been involved in joint work since the last two days -- I said, "As long as they're not independent, as long as they're not released from the employer's terms, business security experts and workplace physicians will never, ever, ever complain to the employer. If you do not make the occupational safety expert and the business doctor independent of the employer with an account, a fund, or a national budget, you will not be able to control it, and we will not be able to avoid being the country in which business killings are still on the rise, whether we want to or not. It's a really profitable and bloody mining sector, a profitable and bloody area; coal coming out of the ground in blood comes out of the ground, and there's a live worker going underground. If the government wants to prevent such order from functioning, it will withdraw the clause and benefit the occupational safety experts. There's another missing spot, fellas. Yeah, well, if there's a occupational safety expert and a workplace physician in that workplace, that sounds like a job guarantee. Of course, there are also occupational safety experts working in joint health and security services in Law 6331, so there are occupational security experts responsible for the safety of several businesses. When they see that security measures are not being taken at different workplaces, that relationship will be eliminated. And no guarantee of their involvement has been passed by the law. So, as lame as possible, it's as incomplete as possible, it's just, and it's like a security measure is being taken at work, which unfortunately won't be enough to eliminate the murder of jobs in the mines. I wanted to express them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0288par0033	Thank you, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0289par0034	Mr. President, the decision is enough... I'm going to submit these two motions to your votes together, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There's enough to make a decision. Mr. President, if you insist, then we'll ask five people to stand up and count one by one.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0038	Yes, sir. Now, in accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the first article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 2nd Amendment of the current law bill 687 rows be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ramadan Kerim Özkan Aytuğ Thrower Musa Pine Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0291par0060	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0061	Do I make you read your reasons?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0292par0062	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0063	Your alibi is being read.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0293par0064	Musa Pine will speak, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0294par0065	Nazmi Gür will speak.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0066	Okay, I'll run the alibi first.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0294par0067	Mr. President, you're reading these motions in order of arrival, aren't you? The same motions are made according to the order of arrival. Karma motions, you have them read according to the order of arrival.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0068	Mr. Zozani, we're doing this process all the time. If you'll excuse me, please...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0294par0069	I know, and I appreciate it, but according to the order of your arrival...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0290par0070	You'll probably appreciate how many times we've been doing this, and we're following it, please. The article is removed from the draft text, which is considered to be the answer to the need for current regulations. Now, Mr. Pine will speak in the Republican People's Party motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0295par0077	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0296par0078	Mr. Pine, we're already taking it off. Why are you talking?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0295par0079	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 2 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety No. 687. Yes, this substance needs to be withdrawn, that's true, and we approve of that. But, I also want to say that as you know, there's an election for a chancellor at universities right now, and one of the largest universities of Turkey is being held, and one of the rectory elections at the University of Istanbul, Mr. Professor Dr. Rashit Tükel took the 1st place, with a big vote difference, and Mahmut Ak took the 1st place in the 2nd place. So far, the ECHR has put the first-ranked candidates in the first place at universities in the first place, and has sent them in the first place as a tradition, but has done a different practice at Istanbul University, has written Rashit Tükelii in the second place, and has taken Mahmoud Ak (G) in the first place. Even though he received few votes, the President appointed Mr. Mahmut Ak (Muhammad) as President of İstanbul University today. This is probably a similar last name, Mahmoud Ak and AK PARTI, or AKP. That's not very true. In new Turkey, then, even the resemblance to his last name is enough to become a chancellor. It's not enough to get a lot of votes in college, it's a university where his last name means he's going to be president, and once again we've seen it in Turkey. Dear friends, of course the question is: We are discussing a Health and Safety Act. There must be a need for workers' health and occupational safety in Turkey, there is a need for a draft law on this, correct, but later in the night, it is impossible to make the right decisions regarding business health, labour health. It has been estimated that if the 2nd article brought in, the employee's contract of employment, the employee's right to be discharged immediately in accordance with Article 25 of Law 4857 on the basis of the employer's contract of employment, in the case of not using personal protective equipment, neutralising the guardian of the machine and equipment, not obeying the safety code of the work three times in writing. This also brings to mind: The immediate termination by the employer in the 25th article of the Employment Act (2) is the most severe form of dissolution. If this arrangement hadn't been withdrawn, the employers would have used the right to fire workers in their workplaces in a mind-blowing way, very recklessly, if they hadn't. The Republican People's Party MP was forced to withdraw the clause whether the government was willing or not as a result of a true and consistent fight by our friends from other opposition parties in the Commission. The employment guarantees of workers, workers in Turkey are already between the two lips of employers. Although there has been a law on job guarantees, unfortunately, the bosses are rescinding the labor of workers, workers, through a decision between their lips, not according to this labour guarantee law. Therefore, this is a wrong decision. It has been important to get back from this wrong decision -- because of the support and contributions given by the opposition parties. We pray and ask that the laws that bring true labor health and job safety to our brothers who have died in Turkey, especially in Soma, Ermenek, and in İstanbul, after the elevator accident in Medjidiyeköy, pass through Parliament. But before the election, it still makes sense that such an arrangement was brought immediately, in a hurry, in such a hurry. But as the opposition party, we really think that these arrangements for labour health and job safety in Turkey should be discussed and discussed over a very long period of time, but most importantly, a working health and job safety should be removed from here in accordance with international contracts signed under the state of the Republic of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0297par0086	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0298par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute the General Assembly. After all the labor killings, of course, it's positive that workers' rights, labor health, and occupational safety are finally on the agenda of this House. And as our party, I want to say here that we're going to support in advance all the materials in their interest, in their interests, in the interests of the workers, the workers. However, the government has set up the draft, which he has prepared, so to speak, to create a balance. He's given maybe 10 times what he's given to the worker this time, to the bosses, to the employer. On the other hand, it's called the Occupational Security Act. The responsibility here is, of course, to the owner of the business and the owner of that business, that company, that boss, that operator. Taking all security measures is, of course, the first-degree responsibility of employers to bring the safety of workers and the health of workers to produce in a healthy environment, but you can see from the material that's now been released, you'll see that in the future -- even in this law, the government considers more employers, and the worker is second-guessst. Turkey, of course, is one of the world's most backward countries in business health. Unfortunately, in statistics, our report card is extremely bad. We'll see, of course, how bad it is when we think about workers, workers, who have lost their lives in business accidents in the last five or six years. That's just for registered workers or union workers, but this law, unfortunately, does not provide any guarantee for workers who work off the record and migrate from one part of our country, especially under the name of the non-community workers, three months in the field and five months in different places. One of the main flaws of this bill is that it excludes seasonal workers in terms of business safety. You know, this Parliament has set up a parliamentary research commission with our proposals about the problems of seasonal workers, as well as the report has been prepared, finished, and of course, in terms of seasonal workers' rights and autonomy rights, in terms of their guarantees, what they bring in terms of their working in a healthy environment is understood when the Commission submits its report to the General Assembly. But it's good to say, especially seasonal workers travel with their children and live in unsanitary conditions, in unhealthy areas, in the sun, mostly in the field. The problems of agricultural workers in the region of Çukurova, in the Black Sea region, in some regions of the Aegean, and in some parts of the Marmara are in extreme and inhumane conditions. There is no guarantee for job safety or labour health, and they lack those assurances. And in terms of their fee, they're practically modern slaves, modern slaves. In order for this large section and its numbers to benefit from millions of people, of course, it must be covered in order to benefit from these rights, or in the future, it is of utmost importance for us to include and protect their rights, especially this section, which lacks the union's rights, which lacks job security. The withdrawal of this clause is extremely positive, because it actually gave the boss, the employer, almost the authority to dictate. With this clause withdrawn, the job security will be secured. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0299par0095	Thank you, Mr. Gür. I submit to your votes the three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted and thus come out of the bill. To avoid any confusion, we will continue negotiations through the current commission text. Article numbers will be written consecutively during the writing of the law. There are three motions on the third article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following amendment of Bill 687 in the second article of Article 25 of Law No. 6331, which stipulates to add a change and new joke, shall be changed in the following way in the "very dangerous class." ▪ In all private sectors İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the "public" declaration be removed from the text of the article in the seventh joke, which is envisioned to be added to Article 25 of Law Number 3 and Article 6331 of Law 687. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Recep Private Vedat Demiröz Tülay Copper The signatures of the other motion are: Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ramadan Kerim Özkan Musa Pine Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0300par0122	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0299par0123	I'm reading the reason: Our proposal aims to expand the regulation on the act of stopping production coercion, not just in public-issued jobs, but in all contracting jobs. Because production pressure isn't just a public production process. I'm reading the reason for the second motion: It is intended to include all the contracts taken from the public, not just the tender, but all the work taken from the public, as part of the seventh joke in which the Law No. 6331 should be added to Article 25. I submit these two motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following amendment of Bill 687 in the second article of Article 25 of Law No. 6331, which stipulates to add a change and new joke, shall be changed in the following way in the "very dangerous class." ▪ In all private sectors Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the final motion, Commission? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0301par0138	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0299par0139	Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0302par0140	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as you know, our objection to the bill here was that there really were no arrangements for the safety and health of the worker. That's why we're proposing a amendment to the 3rd Amendment... that when we discuss this issue with the Minister, the agreement with the opposition has only been directed at subtracting the part from the public, and we don't find that enough. Now, you remember, what's behind the accident in Soma, the other accidents in the construction industry, the many accidents in the manufacturing industry is the order that we know come on. So, in other words, it's forced production, it's forced production outside of overproduction and planning. Thus, even though an arrangement to prevent this seems to have been introduced, his record, his circumstances, are very limited. What's the limit? One: why should anyone in the very dangerous class be in the very dangerous class? So business killings don't just mean murder, they come up in all sectors, given the fact that it's a product of injury or professional illness. Of course, I mean, it's obvious that it's not only in the public sector or the public-owned business. Therefore, we do not find these recordings sufficient. On the other hand, in a life-threatening manner, does he have to die? If it is the health of the worker, if there is a desire to maintain production in a healthy manner, only the means to work in a life-threatening manner are the reasons why the work is stopped. There is no need to bring a record. Therefore, not only is it in the very dangerous classroom, but it is in all business areas, in all sectors, in all sectors, incrementing the capacity of technological development, labor force, in production methods, without providing parts such as innovation, production and/or manufacturing plans, by acting contrary to business programmes, which will be the reason to stop the work in order to endanger the health of the worker. And you will be able to do this kind of work, and that is why, if you don't comply with that, by the work of the chiefs, you will be able to do this kind of intervention, in order to implement the employer who are doing unauthorized work, in the form of an accident, but you will be able to prevent the work. Otherwise, the removal of only the part of the opposition and the government from the government will not be enough to limit business planning in any kind of tender. Therefore, our group, the People's Democratic Party, in all sectors, recommends this amendment to ensure the safety of workers in this regard, in order to ensure the necessary intervention by their superiors. I expect your vote and support on this proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0303par0147	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motions adopted, I submit to your votes the third article: those who accept... those who refuse... the third article has been accepted. There are three motions on the fourth article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request that the declaration of the law shall be changed for two years in accordance with Article 687 and Article 6331, which shall be added to Article 25/A. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Haci Bayram Türkoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Aytuğ Thrower Ramadan Kerim Özkan İzzet Cetin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment of the Law Bill 687, which stipulates to add item number 6331 to the Law. Article 25/A below has been added to Law 4-6331 after Article 25. In the mines run by tender/rödovans, the mining business is handed over to the public as soon as there is a business accident that could lead to death or death, and the employers of these mining companies are banned from public tenders indefinitely. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0304par0176	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0303par0177	Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0305par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, you're going to come out here and tell me that we're making an arrangement to improve the working conditions of the worker, to ensure the right to live. Think of a clause where you're making an arrangement that pays $21.6 million a year, but because the company's manager doesn't have a share in the company, this company is bankrupt, but in the executive position, the fate of thousands of people is running the market between two lips. Look, I don't mean an easy, abbreviated number; this person's company, which is being paid $21.6 million a year, went down the day after tomorrow, sank from its administration; you eliminate all the obligations of the person in this position, the manager, all the legal obligations that are born. You've done a similar obligation removal for the managers of sports clubs before, and now you're bringing it here, and you're putting in a clause like this. When I was speaking on the general, I made this analogy, if you remember, what I'm saying now is that we looked at the little water at the bottom of the glass, and we're trying to see. But we're also looking at a drop in it. That's what's dripping into it, that's what's dripping into it. As long as such arrangements are maintained within this package, as long as they insist, we are against this bill. Yes, if people, workers, workers, laborers' living conditions, are being provided with the same improvements as the tip of a pin to correct the conditions of work, let's not object to them, but we'll continue to oppose them here, as a principle, if you can arrange to save the people in this position who are in this position, without making any corrections to them. We've already said that, and that's not the first time we've talked about it here. Our opposition commissioner, our member of parliament, has expressed these issues in detail, and we're here now expressing our objections about this issue, and we're asking that they be removed from this bill text. There are materials like this, I've expressed a substance, but there are other substances. So you don't have the chance to associate such an arrangement with anything. I'm sure you've heard from us now that there's such an arrangement, that most of you may be like this, now that you're in a position to hear from us, but like this, unfortunately. From the beginning, the rich side, the rich side, side arrangements, I'm sorry, it doesn't concern us very much, we're against them. The worker's rights, the rights of the worker, the regulations of the law, yes, but here we are strongly opposed to regulations, as I just put it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0306par0184	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0305par0186	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0306par0187	I will, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of "up to two years" in Article 25/A, which is envisioned to be added to Article 6331 with the 4th Amendment of the current 687 rows of the Bill of Law, "for two years." Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0307par0202	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0308par0203	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0309par0204	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0310par0205	I'm reading the reasons: Under Article 25/A added to Law 6331, it is estimated that those who have been convicted of a fatal occupational accident in their workplaces will not be able to meet public tenders for two years. We think it's a positive step, but it's quite inadequate. The responsibility of error is different from the perfect responsibility. People or companies whose defect has been confirmed must be banned for longer than public tenders. Thus, until two years, the expression "also" was written as "two years." Reason for the other motion of the same nature: The bill stipulates that the ban on tender should be determined by the court, not exceed two years. The amendment stipulates that the employer, whose right of recognition has been lifted during the ban period, has been banned from entering public tenders for two years, when a fatal occupational accident has been determined by a verdict of mistrial. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with these motions, I submit to your votes the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following joke to Article 5 of Law Bill 687, which stipulates a change in Article 26 of Law 6331. The administrative fines are increased by three hundred percent, regardless of the number of employees working for mining and building businesses. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0311par0225	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0310par0226	I'm reading the reason: The increase in administrative fines should be raised to higher levels, considering current employee health and safety statistics. The penalties for this common business accident need to be increased. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. On the 6th article, there are three proposals, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the 687 rows of legislation under the first amendment to Article 30 of the Law 6331 (g) under Article 6 of the amendment to "stop work at its workplaces" following the declaration. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, which is currently in session, in accordance with Article 687. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman love Look Ramadan Can "The first joke (g) of Article 30 of Article 6-6331 of the Law (MEDDE 6-6331) was changed in the following way and added the following joke to follow in its second joke. "g) Stopping work at workplaces, which has not been assessed at risk, the job will be halted, the removal of the seals for stopping reasons, the conditions for reworking, the conditions for re-working, the urgent stops at workplaces, particularly in mining and construction, until emergency measures are decided to be carried out." In which of the mining workplaces can be established, the procedures and foundations for the technical properties of these rooms are organised by regulations that will be issued within a year in the Ministry. These technical features are determined according to national and international standards." The signatures of the other motion are: Lightshooter Free Special Süleyman Çelebi Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0312par0256	We agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0313par0257	Ours is motive...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0314par0258	He'll speak in private, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0315par0259	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to give the Ministry of Labor and Social Security the authority to organise the use of shelters in the mines. He will speak privately on the other motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0316par0265	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've reached the end of another legislature in parliament. Maybe we're just having one last conversation. As traditionally, at the end of each year, the law is generally discussed by the consensus that everyone participates and creates serious expectations in society. We can't really talk about that today. But we've all been through a process in the Commission where we've been negotiating on the subcommittee for days and mornings, we've been working very hard on it, we've been trying to bring it to a point where our warnings have been violently rejected by power, our demands are not accepted, our demands are completely ignored in a mind-boggling way. He's been here for the last three days. Now it's on the agenda to get this law out. The Republican People's Party, in its sense of responsible opposition, makes its best contributions, but we oppose our essentials. Many of the articles that we object to were brought in with a strong insistence on the Commission, stubbornly, with the health of the members of the Commission being disregarded, but we see today that many of these substances are withdrawing by the ruling party with motions, based on the statements of the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties at the time, and with a summary of our statements. We are pleased with the outcome of our active opposition, because of many articles. This is a clause in Turkey concerning our living rooms, which the public has been arguing about for a very long time. The living rooms, which were living rooms in 2010, when the miners were underground in Chile, and 17 days later by the Chilean government, were not an underground living room, but the miners fled and turned it into a living room, where they were found alive and were rescued sixty-nine days later. The first question as soon as the disaster took place on that May 13th was, is there a living room in the mine? On that day, government officials, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz was absent. For three days, the officials of Soma Asş said: "We had a living room, we had a better room, we had a better one. Before we could do it, we met this disaster. And then he took some roads with the company, and he said that the owner of the New Dawn Gazette was from a different country or something, and he tried to push it into a corner, and he missed responsibility, and Taner Yıldız said, "We have it in our hands, how did they not do it?" It's our thing, how come they didn't do it? Our legislation says: "He who works takes every precaution." They say, "There is a living room in it." Now that you're willing to fight them and the stones on the skirt have fallen out, the company said: "There is no such thing, where is it written?" If there were, we would have done it. As we offered the living rooms, you said no as the opposition parties proposed. Later, there was a saying: There is no need for a living room in the coal mines, nor in the world. Then examples were set in front of you, where it's in the U.S., and the container type can be moved, and the mine can change, and there's some flexible living rooms, but the cost is $250,000, and the employer doesn't come easily to take it on. That's why you ignored it, stopped. Now, at the coming point, the Ministry has come to the point where the Republican People's Party's righteous demand is set up in a regulation, which, for a year or so, will accept something like what mine it is going to be. It doesn't work, but we say yes, we need to make more serious arrangements. All summer, we've run out of feathers in the language of our union-based MPs, including Süleyman Çelebi, Musa Pine, Izzet Cetin, and we've told the entire Health Commission, and we can't get them to listen. At the point where we come in today, at least in a year... with a bunch of round words, that's not enough, but we say yes. But, just so you know, in the next disaster, to answer that question, this House needs to be a little more sensitive about these matters. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0271	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0318par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0273	Mr. Vural, before the vote?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0318par0274	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0275	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0318par0276	Sir, we have also contributed well as the National Movement Party Group to the establishment of shelter chambers in these mining workplaces. Therefore, it is our request that such declarations be made in these motions. In this framework, we demanded that this change be done this way. I've been promised this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0278	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0319par0279	Mr. President, I'd like to say a quick word.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0280	Do you want to talk about it now or before the vote?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0319par0281	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0317par0282	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0319par0284	Mr. President, thank you very much. With the contributions of all groups, we have carried out the arrangement of the 6th article, the arrangement of these shelters. It's a pretty good compromise. All of our friends have an expectation that this beautiful atmosphere will move quickly. I hope the opposition continues to support our quick march through this beautiful understanding, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0320par0286	I don't want to impose a direction on the opposition. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0321par0287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit these two motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As the content of the first joke (g) bendi has been altered in accordance with these two proposals which have just been adopted, I am removing the other motion from the process. In accordance with these motions, which have been accepted, I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 7th amendment to Article 6331 of the law, which stipulates a change in the interim 4th amendment to the current 687 rows. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0322par0301	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0323par0302	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0321par0303	I'm reading the reason: A system where the occupational safety system is rated and paired with dangerous classes is a problem of four years. An additional one-and-a-half-year delay for businesses in the dangerous class brought in by regulation is a serious problem for workers' health and occupational safety, while the system's delay shows a lack of a holistic approach to labour health and safety. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. There are three motions on the 8th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Bill 687, which stipulates to add Interim Article 6331 to the Law, to the term "six months" as "the fourth five days." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 8 of the current law bill 687 rows from the draft text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Shirin Ünal Harun Karaca Haci Bayram Türkoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Süleyman Çelebi Sinan Aygün Kadir Gökmen Öğütüm Musa Pine Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We'll leave it to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0324par0330	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0325par0331	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0321par0332	I'm having him read his motive: The article is removed from the draft text, which is considered to be the answer to the need for current regulations. Reason for the other motion of the same nature: The item is removed from the draft text, since the current arrangement is supposed to be able to answer the need. I submit to your votes the motions that I have made read the reason: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. So the item came out of the draft text. That's why I'm not processing the other motion. The 8th article is from the text. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and copyright the amendment of Act 687, which stipulates to add a temporary clause to Law 6331, under Article 9 of the following article "Accepted from 1/1/2016" as "a month after the law is enforced." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0326par0349	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0327par0350	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0321par0351	I'm reading the reason: In the event of an occupational accident in the mines, the failure to identify the workers' whereabouts and exits makes it very difficult for the workers to evacuate, causing more severe losses to the workplace. Thus, the question of delaying the bill in the face of the urgency of such a vital system is countering the general principle of "later justice is not justice." With change, these problems are intended to be resolved.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0328par0354	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-02sit09spe0321par0355	I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient, and I'm going to submit the motion to your votes that those who agree... Those who don't agree... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-02sit10spe0321par0001	I now open the 10th Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 687, which is ranked in the 5th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 696, which is ranked in the sixth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, the decision is made to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Friday (April 3rd 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
