tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, under the 53rd Amendment of the Civil Code, I call upon the General Assembly to stand a moment of silence in front of the memory of our martyrs in connection with the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale Kara and the Sea Wars. After that, we will perform the Istiklal March. [[Respect has been held]] It's our own March. [[Identical March]] May their souls rest in peace. Dear MPs, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal for the 100th anniversary of the 1915 Çanakkale Kara and the Sea Wars Victory, and for the March 18th Day of Martyrs' special session, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. At a meeting Wednesday (March 18th 2015), the Council of Counsellors held a special session following the reading of the March 18, 2015, offering a meeting on the agenda of the General Assembly of Turkey on behalf of the 100th anniversary of the Canakkale Kara and Deniz Wars Victory, and on the basis of the March 18, 2015 General Assembly General Assembly's meeting on Wednesday (March 18, 2015) and the approval of the General Assembly's agenda after the completion of the special session with political party groups on behalf of the government for 20 minutes. Mihrimah Belma Line Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Dear lawmakers, we now begin a special session in accordance with the verdict of 1915 Çanakkale Kara and Sea Wars Victory, the 100th anniversary and March 18th Day of Martyrs. Congressmans, today is the 100th year of the Turkish nation's glorious victory in gold letters. It's a historic day for the nation. In this victory alone, in Çanakkale, in Gallipoli, in the Anafartas, the enemy ships were not buried in the deep waters of the throat, but also in the vile invasion, described by the late Akif. This victory is truly epic of the century. From seven to seventy, the Muslim-gaylim is an unprecedented epic by all members of our nation, written by the heroic Mehmetchik, martyrs and veterans in holy blood. This victory has led us to our future and our future. By going this way, thank God we've reached the republic and democracy. This victory has made Asia Minor our home forever. This victory, not just for us, but for all mankind, has been a victory that has changed the course of history. This victory has a sense of friendship from the war, as it has been expressed in the message to the Anzaks, in the most heroic statement of Saint Ataturk. In 1915, in Çanakkale, we did not just win a victory in Gallipoli, we rose up in the nation, we gained strength and self-confidence. This self - confidence has given us the national struggle and independence; it has given us a new life, a new life, a new one, a united one, a nation that wants to be erased from history. This victory has corrupted all the plans of the muslims, history has changed direction. And indeed, this victory has increased us in responsibilities. It is our duty to protect these blessed homelands which our beloved martyrs and heroic veterans have bequeathed to us at the cost of their blood, to make our state strong, to protect their eternal heritage, to preserve our unity and our integrity, to restore their souls. On this occasion, I thank and thank all our great elders, who have given great service to our state and nation, especially to the great commander and hero of this war, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to all their saints. And let not Allah make our people to suffer or to suffer any more. [[Applause]] Congressmans, under the decision taken, I will make a promise to one member of the political party group and to the government for 20 minutes each. For your information, I present the order: Deputy Leader of the Group on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group and Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı, İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Deputy Leader of the Group and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel, Minister of Family and Social Policy on behalf of the government, Mr. Ayşenur Islam. The first statement, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, belongs to Deputy Leader of the Group and Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0002par0040	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you first. This is the 100th year of the victory of Çanakkale. A hundred years is not really a very long time in the history of the nations. Most of the friends here are friends who have surely crossed paths with people who have seen the Battle of Çanakkale, friends who have heard their memories firsthand. Of course, as time goes by, memories are buried deep in history, but on the other hand, the common memory of the nations carries those memories into the future. What matters is what kind of meaning and approach we carry these memories into the future. A hundred years ago in Çanakkale, I remember them with mercy and gratitude, the countless sons of our country, the martyrs, the veterans, all of them, who defied seven heifers, fought against them, shed their blood over a year's time. A war that killed about 500,000 people from both sides. About 257,000 of our soldiers, soldiers of the Ottoman State, came from different parts of this Ottoman geography, where our soldiers were martyred, 257,000 of our soldiers who stood up against the enemy in Çanakkale. In fact, if you look at it today, it's big enough to be the population of a medium-sized city. The loss of enemy forces is around 250,000. Dear friends, events with such great losses and great historical consequences also take place in the collective memory of the nations. Even if years pass by, we'll see images of what it's like in our everyday lives. A few years ago, I attended the performance of a Turkish folk music choir at the Museum of Art and Sculpture in Ankara. You know these kinds of concerts, they sit out front in laci suits, mostly people from the elite community, in a line of protocols, but in the way they remind people of the social hierarchy, they settle down and listen to the concert. A variety of songs were sung. Each class listened to these songs, as if buried inside themselves, but when they shot me in the chanakkale, they put me in the grave before I died, the song began to be said, and suddenly in the hall, all those social class differences, the atmosphere that separated people from each other through those invisible lines and buried them all in the same heart of warmth and warmth. It's a song of heroism, but it's also a sad song that was sung by the people there, not only with their lips, but also with their hearts. Such a wonderful orchestra. It was perhaps 90 years after the Battle of Çanakkale, but the memory of the Battle of Çanakkale was a wonderful example of how the collective memory of this nation was established, and it was absolutely necessary to be a witness. Followed by the Yemeni song. While the same orchestra sang the Yemen song, the audience joined the song with the same voice, with the same heart. Our collective memory in Yemen, in Çanakkale, in the Caucasus front, in Kut'ul Amare, on the Sinai front, is the basis of the feeling that made us one today through the songs. In that sense, Çanakkale is the historic seal of our brotherhood, of our nation, of our nation, but it is certainly a historic seal. You all know, when you're kids, you have blood brothers, people cut off their fingers, rub their blood together, and they become blood brothers. After becoming a blood brother, there's a very deep law among them. The Battle of Çanakkale is a very important historical chapter in which the nation is blood brothers, and through the blood of the 250,000 people there, that common will is thrown forward like an arrow from the past to the future. In that sense, this blood brotherhood is a brotherhood that all the people from all over Asia Minor are building on their blood -- but it's not the hammock, it's really, it's the heart, it's the heart, it's the heart. So, as we look at Çanakkale, we do not just look at the past; as we look at Çanakkale, we look at the future, the horizon of mankind, along with the people we are blood brothers in the sociocultural continuum, from Anatolia to Rumeli, from the Caucasus to the Middle East. This is where Çanakkale stands, my friends. Of course, victories are very important. Victorys give us the power to do, the power to do. But you have to know about defeats in the same way. The drama of defeat, in the name of humanity there, in the name of our own nation, we need to know the lessons we need to take in the name of our future. Part of life is victory, part is defeat, part is life, part is death. Let us not forget that there is blood and terror on one side of those narratives we call heroism. As we listen to those memories of Çanakkale, we know that in the everyday life of humans there are no ordinary memories of life, that we are told of; shrapnel flies, cannons are thrown away, people are torn apart, an apocalypse. There are human dramas with one side, human nobility with one side, nobility, heroism. But part of being a hero is pain, drama. We're talking about a war where 250,000 people lost their lives. We're talking about losses, defeats, defeats until he comes to war. The Balkan War is once again a war in front of Çanakkale, which is stuck in our collective memory (1912-1913). Six Balkan countries have merged, they have won a battle against their superior Ottoman forces, and we have returned from the Balkans, sad, miserable, in 1912-1913. We also have lessons to learn from defeats. But I guess it must have been because people learned that lesson, two years after that, really, in the face of the force that those seven duvets had piled up there, the Ottoman Empire, which had been defeated by six to one-sixths of the power of the Balkan state itself, had been defeated by its six-tenths of its own power, stood up against seven heifers, and won victories on seven fronts. So it's important to learn a lesson. Dear friends, Mehmet Akif Ersoy speaks beautifully of the Battle of Çanakkale. I'm sure there are party differences, political differences, pronunciation differences among the valued MPs here, but one of the partnerships is the poems of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, and I'm sure many of them have that poem in their memory. What is this Bosphorus? Is there in the world a mate? Four of the largest armies are being loaded, five of them. To pass through the hill unto Marmara, I learned that poem when I was 15 years old, when I was a boarding school student. I'm sure my friends here -- like so many other members of this nation -- have learned this poem at a much younger age because poetry tells us better in its own language what happened. Poets so the voices of the nations cry, as another poet says. And in that poem of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, he calls us on those verses that we all remember by heart, but most of all: He was shot and laid down with a clean forehead, For the sake of a crescent, Lord, neither the sun sets! You're big enough to save your blood. The lions of Bedr were only so fortunate. That line was criticized, you know. The soldier who fell to the ground for this land, If he kissed that pure forehead by falling out of the sky, it would be worth it. O martyr son, do not ask me, He's opened his mouth to you, Prophet. Even if I shut up, the Clave will complete it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, history doesn't work on such stereotypes. History is made up of such profound detail... that there is British historian Carr, which is History? Details... if we're talking about the Battle of Çanakkale, we need to talk about the lives of 250,000 people who died there. We have to put back what tears they left behind like that first martyr Hasan Mevsuf, and what pain they left behind, because on one hand there's the heroics in Çanakkale, and on the other side there's the heroes left behind in Anatolia. If we see them all, if we know them all in one detail, then we'll have a more comprehensive perspective on what the Canakkale wars are. Those details... of course, I can't tell you all about them here, but there are some memories of what those details are, human stories. Those human stories, which aren't the bestsellers, are in the backgrounds, but our collective memory still touches them and brings them into the light, leaving them alive because it knows those stories that remain behind and deep. Look, I'd like to read you an anecdote of what the Battle of Çanakkale had left: Suddenly there was running outside. The old soldiers came to him, and came to him. They cried out to one another. When Major Abdulkadir turned his prying glances to Major Lütfi, he felt compelled to give information. He travels through the villages of Izmir. He collects the letters to the soldiers, the small relics, he brings them, he gives them to his owners. And because he's a confidant, he's the one who sends his regards to the lovers. That would make his arrival very valuable. When the soldiers gathered around him, he put his right hand into a saddlebag, took out a letter, and shouted: "Ver, I am here, and the soldier beside him struck a light fist on the back of Salim. Let him read the letter in the other side of the saddle. Let him read the letter again: From Alsancak, Hayati Salim, son of Salim, a man from among the Crows: "Ver, I am here." The martyr, the martyr, threw him in the other eye. This time he took out a handkerchief, which had been processed:, Rapheth the son of Hassan, when there was no noise, he repeated it:, Rafet the son of Hassan, he knew no one. The faces of Sai have changed. Major Abdulkadir entered the headquarters, followed by Major Lütfi, who closed the door, but still heard the voice of Sai a little bit: Muharrem, the son of Moses, so that there were martyrs who had no one left and no one knew him. Imagine how they entrust each other with their lives, and place their trust in each other, and what kind of a place of resurrection, and what a place of resurrection, and sometimes it happens. I'll read another anecdote, if you'll excuse me. This is related to a former shoe repairman Cevdet Alkalp, in the gap across from Ali Sururi Elementary in Balıkesir. One day, when he talks about Çanakkale, he starts to cry, and he says to him, "When my merciful father, Hafiz Ali, stayed in Çanakkale, I was seven months old in my mother's womb. I never knew him. He didn't even have a picture. Those were hard times. The troubles of mobilization, the time of Kuvaimilli, the years of occupation and so forth... our childhood was always about bread and adversity. But my mother, from my childhood, every time she goes to the street, wherever she goes, she comes to me and I go to the market. Call me if your father comes! I'm going to your aunt's. Call me if your father comes! I'm going to the neighbors. If your father came, he'd call me right away. My parents kept waiting for me. I grew up, opened a shop. My mother would come to the store and tell me where she was going, and if your father came, call me! Many years passed, and my mother grew old. He would always come to me with his staff, and he would always say, "If your father comes, call me!" The day became heavy, and he was lawful with us on his deathbed. You took good care of me. He said, "Give me your blessing." He turned to me slowly: If your father came, my mother always waited for you. Suddenly, he stood up and smiled at the door. He said, "Welcome, sir. Welcome." He delivered his soul. On the one hand, the people's stories, the little stories, but the stories with the soul and the heart of this nation, on the other hand, the great heroics, but what a story that little size can't compete with it. When you see them together, when we put together the story of the heroes who fought on that battlefield, and the story of those who were left behind, those who were hurt, those who were left behind, here, Çanakkale, together. The depth behind the great victory we call Çanakkale, the loss of the lives of those 250,000 people and so settled in our collective mind. Dear friends, there have been great heroics in Çanakkale, some of which are written in history. But one of the most important heroes to change the course of the Çanakkale wars -- on behalf of all those heroes -- on April 25th, in Conkbayı, I order the great statesman, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to turn our soldiers against the coming Anzaks, not against you, to die. Put on bayonets and go to bed! He put the soldiers there, and suddenly, at that historic moment, he made the decision that changed the course of the war. I don't know if he was conscious at the time, but a hunch is what a present state gives you when you tell him about this memory. In that frame, without hesitation, at that moment of danger, at that moment of absence, I made that decision. I put on a military bayonet and laid it down, and I stopped the enemy from coming, and I allowed the 57th Regiment to buy time, he says. That's what great statesmen are like. Ataturk has done some very important things in this history. I went to his school at the monastery, and I visited him. When I look from the horizon of the monastery to Anatolia, yes, it is clear that this yellow boy, this blue-eyed boy, is doing very important work. You have to see history with every aspect of its own reality. But let's not forget, Mustafa Kemal and his friends, the generals there, the Mehmetchiks there, this hero is all of them, friends, and all of them have been sent to us as a souvenir. In this frame, I am grateful for the victory of Çanakkale, who now lifts all those boundaries between us, and the martyrs there, and the glorious memories of their people who were left behind, and the human stories that seemed so small. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0003par0073	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Ihsan Özkes. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ozkes, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0004par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. On this particular agenda, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Because they have given us this unprecedented victory in the history of the world, we thank and cherish all the heroes of the Battle of Çanakkale, especially Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Congressmans, we're all Muslims, alhamdulillah. According to our belief, the highest rank in Islamic religion is the highest prophecy, and our beloved prophet Muhammad Mustafa (AS) has ended with his prophecy. However, Islam is the highest rank after prophecy, second rank, martyrdom, martyrdom. Hence, in the 100th year of the Canakkale martyrs, the memorial becomes even more spiritual. May the souls of the Çanakkale martyrs rest in peace, and may Allah grant us their intercession. When World War I began, the Ottoman state, which lacks economic and technologically, found itself in this Çanakkale War, as a result of the wrong policies. Colonists of the 20th century, who thought they had rights all over the world, went out with the people of the geography that they exploited to prevent the Ottoman State from war and to achieve its dirty goals, in Çanakkale. There was one thing those who thought that they could achieve all their goals with their economic and technological powers missed and didn't plan to, and that was the presence of hundreds of thousands of Mehmetchik, the greatest victory ever won for their country. The battle of Çanakkale is the defense of steel and fire, flesh and bone itself. There was a battle so severe that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, "I command you not to attack, but to die." Mehmet Akif, in one poem, was breaking up stories, removing afakı/ Beriden zezeles, dropping from his brain, and saying, "The bomb lightning is coming down from every trench/out of his chest, that lion neferin." Students of Istanbul and Anatolia's most distinguished high schools volunteered for the rescue of Mehmetçik, and many of them were martyrs. We buried a Darulfun in Çanakkale. The word is important in this sense. Çanakkale is a battle for life and death. It's the decision of a whole nation to be sure and surely to be focused on victory, whether it's the will or death! The battle of Çanakkale is the name of the enemy who came to the gate of the homeland and threatened all the saints. Wait, pilgrim, this is the land you came and stepped on without knowing where an era sinks. Get down and listen, this quiet heap/ a homeland heart is beating! Congressmans, the history of the Battle of Çanakkale cannot be written without Ataturk. The victory of Çanakkale is the work of God the Great, then of Ataturk the Great, and many nameless heroes. We must not forget the military role that Ataturk had played in the victory of Çanakkale. When World War I began, Ataturk, an Ataturtarian in Sofia, volunteered for the Battle of Çanakkale to pay off his debt to the country and the nation, leaving its comfort in Europe. Ataturk wanted to be put on active duty at the front in November 1914, seeking the power of First Command, but there is always a duty for you in the army, but we leave you there because we consider Sofia's Athsemilitarianism more important. The answer has been given. In December 1914, Ataturk reiterated his desire to take active office at the front by writing a letter to Enver Pasha, the Deputy Commander-in-Chief of Sofia: there is no greater and greater duty than the active duties of defending the province. I can't be an attaché in Sofia while my friends are on battle fronts and lines of fire! If I lack the integrity of being a first-class officer, if that is your opinion, please explain. Ataturk later explained his state of mind and his plans in those days to Falih Rifkı Atay. I can't tell you what I went through in those days. I decided to join any front, if necessary, like a private. So I carried the things of my house in Sofia to the embassy with my friend Fethi. I packed a small suitcase so I could move right away. Now, when I was about to leave the house, I received a telegram signed by Ismail Hakkın. The signature was written on the letter "Property of Harbiye." When I received this telegram, Deputy Commander Enver Pasha was waging the Sarıkamish war. But, as a true patriot, Ataturk, don't come, stay there. Despite his suggestions, he forced himself to become an active officer at the front. That's true heroism and patriotism. On purpose, knowingly jumping into the lap of death is more than enough to describe what a hero and patriot he is, apart from the heroicness of Ataturk (Ataturk) in the Battle of Çanakkale. On January 20, 1915, Ataturk arrived in Istanbul and began the talks to find out about the 19th Division he was appointed to. Meanwhile, in those days, he met Enver Pasha, who had suffered a great defeat in Sarıkamis. After many years, Ataturk explained to Falih Rifkı Ataya: "We were facing Enver Pasha. Enver was a little thin, pale. I started saying: "You're a little tired. " I said. No, he didn't say that. He said that. What's the matter? He said, "What's the situation now?" He said, "It's very good!" I didn't want to upset him. I turned the conversation over to my mission. Thank you, you've appointed me commander of the 19th division. Where is this division? Perhaps you will learn better if you meet with Erkaniharbiya for this. I was very tired and mindful of his work. I didn't say anything. Well, then I said I shouldn't bother you too much. I went to the Chief of Staff. I was introducing myself to those who needed me to be known as Mustafa Kemal, commander of the 19th Division. I've never met anyone who knew such a division existed. Finally, a wise man said: "Maybe such a division is in the army of the Port von Sanders. Once you saw him, I went to the office of Kazim Bey, the chief of staff of Von Sanders. Kazim Bey: There is no such division in our dislocation. But it may be that in Gallipoli, the Third Corps has designed to form a new division among some of the new agencies we know to be doing. If you could just go there once.' Kazim Bey said, "Let me introduce you to the commander before we act with this." Ataturk then met Port von Sanders. This German Field Marshal welcomes Ataturk, wondering how the Bulgarians are doing, saying to Ataturk, "Are the Bulgarians still not going to fight?" he asked. Ataturk said, "In my opinion, they won't enter yet." he replied. Why, Marshal?" I understand that Bulgarians do not fight unless one of the two possibilities is understood. Until one saw convincing evidence that Germany could succeed, the second replied, unless the war touched its territory. The Field Marshal, who was angry with this answer, squeezed his right fist and raised it in the air, asked if the Bulgarians had no confidence in German success. Ataturk calmly answered this angry question, "No, Your Excellency. " When he asked why was Port von Sanders, whose face was red with anger, he looked as if he understood nothing, but how could the Marshal not trust German success? When it was said, "How could this happen?" Ataturk insisted, "Yes, sir." And then Marshal Sanders, carefully looking at Ataturk, asked you, "What is your opinion?," said Ataturk, who, under any circumstances, had made a principle of telling the truth, just the truth, and after a little thought, was certain of himself. He said, "I am justified in the thought of the Bulgarians." The response of Colonel Ataturk was almost a shock to Field Marshal Port von Sanders. The Field Marshal, who stood up on these words, said, "You can go up to the Ataturk." Members of parliament, in Çanakkale, two great battles have been determined. One of them was the sea war of 6-18 March 1915, a glorious epic of the fate of the land mines that the Nusret Mine ship had laid down, and the other was the battle of the land under the command of the Great Ataturk, in the Anafartas on 6-10 August 1915. Commander of the 19th Division Commander Mustafa Kemal Çanakkale has played a key role in winning the war against his critical decisions at Çanakkale. Let's hear from him how Mustafa Kemal made one of his critical decisions in the battle of Çanakkale: I said to the soldiers who were on the run, why are you running away? Sir, the enemy... they said, and they pointed against the hill. Indeed, one of the enemy's hunting lines was walking freely across the hill. I left my forces behind to rest. The enemy was closer to me than my soldier, and if it came to where I was, my forces would be in very bad shape. Then, I don't know whether it's logic or instinct anymore, but I told the soldiers who ran away that there's no escaping from the enemy. We're out of ammo, they said. If you don't have a cell, you've got bayonets. I said, "You have a bayonet." And I shouted, "Put a bar on these!" And I said, "You have no cell." And I put it on the ground. And when they had put on bayonets, and lay down, the enemy's soldiers laid down, and the company behind them took hold of them, and opened fire. The moment we won, this was the moment that Lt. Col. Mustafa Kemal would be there at that moment, and the critical decision that he made was finally driven out of the enemy. So Mehmetçik formed his first position on the western coast of Gallipoli territory. He was shot and laid down with a clean forehead, For the sake of a crescent, Lord, neither suns set! O soldier, who has fallen to the ground for this land, If he had kissed her with a kiss from the sky, she would have been worthy of it. You're great. Your blood saves the truth. The lions of Bedr were only so fortunate. Who's gonna dig up the victim that's not too tight for you? Let's bury you. You won't fit. The lions of Bedr were only so fortunate. Mehmet Akif speaks his words. Why were the lions of Badir so fortunate? It's a metaphor and a subtlety. Because Muhammad, the great leader of our spiritual faith, if 313 people were to be destroyed here, there would be no one left to worship you. He was begging God in the battle of Badr. That's what Çanakkale was like. There will be no Turk left on earth today, and therefore the muslims would have fulfilled their ambitions at Çanakkale. The commander of that glorious victory, our soldier in Çanakkale, I command you not to attack, but to die. And again, that Ataturk got hurt by a piece of shrapnel, the clock broke, but he didn't let anyone know he was hurt. In the meantime, we need to talk about the Big Seyit (Seyit) of Balıkesir Havran. An armored ship named Ocean, which belonged to the British, was rid of mines, and set fire to the Bosphorus, and was watching toward Istanbul. Seyit Corporal, the remaining crane at Rumeli Mecidiye Tabia was driving a single barrel with a bullet of 276 kilograms in its entire presence to God with superhuman zeal, and only when it sank the Ocean ship in its third shot, the course of the war changed. Churchill says: "No one has done for four hundred years what Hakkhat the Torahite did. This heroic officer of the Nusret Mine ship, who mined the Canakkale Strait overnight, made one third of the invincible British fleet unusable, to be used, says Churchill during his trial: I did not fight the Turks in Çanakkale, but I fought Allah.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0005par0105	Mr. Ozkes, your time is up. I'll give you an extension, please complete.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0004par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. In Çanakkale, our heroes, who knew their homeland, who saw their friend at the front, who was a martyr, wrote an epic tale that would set an example for the oppressed people of the world. The imperialists understood the insurmountableness of Çanakkale, leaving behind the pain and tears that cost more than 500,000 lives. When the war ended, the Ottoman Empires of Russia and Austria-Hungarian Empires were erased from history. The world has witnessed the unbreakable saga of the hero Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and many of our nameless heroes, who carved his name in gold letters on both sides of the throat and defied seven heifers. As Mehmet Akif said: Isn't faith in the heart of our front a/ Joy one, a bitter one, a cause the same, a conscience one/right, a conscience one/ right? Members of parliament, in the Battle of Çanakkale, in the War of Izklikle, the nation won because it was united and united by the Kurd with the Turkish people, with the Alevi (Ali) and with the Sunni (Sunni). The Battle of Çanakkale is a preamble of the Republic of Turkey. The martyrs of Çanakkale are the ones that make Çanakkale uninterruptable; the genius of Çanakkale is the great leader Ataturk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I end my words with the verses of Mehmet Akif.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0006par0113	Mr. Ozkes, I've given you two more minutes. Please, to greet the General Assembly...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0004par0114	My last sentence, sir, my last sentence.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0006par0115	Okay, I turned on your microphone. Please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0004par0116	In Çanakkale, I remember our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, and end with the verses of Mehmet Akif. If you are buried on the vine, you will overflow. Alas! / These horizons won't take you away, O martyr son of martyr, don't ask me, Prophet. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0006par0119	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the group belongs to Deputy Director and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0007par0124	Reverend President, Congressmans, I salute you all. It's March 18th Martyrs' Day. It is also the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. On the 18th of March, we have different feelings, a little bitter, a little proud, a little sad, but full of pride. Because there is an unforgettable note of history in Çanakkale, where mankind will look back and look back until the end of time, and learn a lesson. We have a past where we can take pride in the deeds of history, read history, and describe it, and not blush at it, but as one of the ancient nations, who is blessed with the praise of the Holy Prophet on earth. Today, many documents that have been removed from the dusty shelves of history and laid out in front of mankind speak of unthinkable events in Çanakkale. When we look at these documents, seven duvets from thousands of miles away reveal that they vomited death in the name of the cross in order to erase Muslim Turks from the history of Asia Minor. And we can't say very pleasant things about whether or not we're going to show the proper sensitivity for the rest of the job. The battle of Çanakkale is one of the greatest events in the world in its own lane. The absence, the faith, the disbelief, the humility, and the vanity have brought ruin to his pride. There are many lessons that can be learned from Çanakkale when it is approached like this. First of all, it has been seen and accepted by all the worlds that can't be crossed by war. The superpowers of that period proved to be edible to the entire world, even the armies of the British and French armies, known as the Undefeated Armada. In almost every period of history, the empire, which has caused problems, headaches, or boils, has suffered a great loss of prestige, with the greatest destruction and loss of soldiers in its history. The First World War grew longer when Çanakkale couldn't get through. The Tsarial Russia, who joined the war on the side of the Allied states, hoping to get a piece of the fallen Ottoman cake, succumbed to the Bolshevik Revolution, unable to overcome the internal turmoil, as it did not have the help of the alliance forces to reach its own. Survivors of their brother's struggle for life and death at his last outpost in the east, Yuslam feasted on the victory of the Turkish armies. The philosophers of history can learn more results and lessons than that. The victory of Çanakkale has become a turning point in the history of the world, a Turkish nation has played a decisive role in the course of history, the seeds of national awareness have been cast and the basis for winning the War of Salvation has been the name of a prestige and a struggle for determination. We, the descendants of the people who made Çanakkale impenetrable, who were martyrs in the Battle of Çanakkale, should know well the effects of this war that have reached our present day, the surrender of the flag, the silence of the oppressor, the declaration of truth, the thirst of the holy land, watered by the blood of the ancestors, and remember that the hearts of faith and faith are shielded from the enemy. I truly believe that the work prepared under the light of scientific knowledge, documents, and historical data will help future generations to better understand the historical significance of the battle of Çanakkale. When the books on the Battle of Çanakkale are studied in detail, there are many interesting information. I'd like to present a bunch of this interesting information. As a result of the battle of the Çanakkale front, each of the three houses in Anatolia became martyrs, and one of the three women became widows. Most of the university students who were martyrs of Ariburnu and Conkbayı are students of Darulfun's medical school. The faculty did not graduate in 1915 because the students were in military service. The naval operation of the Çanakkale front is no ordinary military action or combat event, no doubt. As of the location and significance of the straits, the Istanbul Black Sea gate, the Çanakkale de Aegean Sea gate, is always discussed together in terms of the strategic importance and value they carried in the past and the value they now carry in our time. In both throats, classical and narrow frames, not only the Mediterranean to the Black Sea, or the bridges connecting Europe to Asia, but also today its effects on world politics and economics, connecting the world's great seas and large continents with the other important waterways of the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal. For these reasons, Turkish throats have always been the focus of leading international relations. Indeed, ever since ancient history, economic, commercial and political relations between European and Asian countries and military movements have been constantly enforcing in the Bosphorus region. In other words, the throats have been staged in the endless struggles that have not been seen in other parts of the world. Under the light of the short explanations of the strategic situation and geopolitical position of the throats in the course of history, assessments of the consequences of the battle of Çanakkale will undoubtedly be more important and more meaningful. For such an assessment to be more realistic and healthier, the national ambitions of major states over the Turkish straits must be taken a brief glance. Germany's policy towards the east, Russia's aims to reach warm seas, dominates the world, which dominates the seas. The politics of Russia, which has dominated its theory since the 19th century, are always tied up in the Turkish straits. This is the secret conflict of interest on the Bosphorus, which has led the British and French to take Istanbul and to take over the Black Sea Strait before the Russians, and has been the main factor in opening the Çanakkale front. If there's a problem with weapons and supplies for the Russians, it's only the apparent cause of the war. Thus, it is only right to point out the historical ambitions of the great states on the Turkish Straits, while it is also true that Britain has played an active role in opening this front in the first degree. As a matter of fact, British Secretary of the Navy Churchill has made great efforts and has been effective in opening the front. Indeed, he had become the head of the opening of this front, not taking the Turkish military power seriously, saw it as a simple and limited act of punishment. He thought the Turks would stop resisting with the appearance of their most powerful and modern-day armoured armor at the throat. That was indeed a great mistake. The British made a huge miscalculation by simply ignoring the Turkish defence and his military in Çanakkale and their higher spiritual power, and eventually they received the relentless answer that they had never expected on the sea, and then on the land. So they retreated, leaving the victory to the Turkish cannons and mines on the land to the Turkish bayonet. The victory of Çanakkale is a guarantee of our future, as we owe it to our ancestors and martyrs, especially young generations. As a matter of fact, the important leaders of the era of victory said: "The Turks, for example, are built as a fortress in the face of the most advanced techniques of the era that forced Çanakkale. " In Çanakkale, everything was perfect, but we did not succeed. Because the Turks were fighting the fury, courage, and heroism of the lions who had entered their homes. I've never seen such a people." he says. Congressmans, when we tell our children about Çanakkale, we have to tell them that Çanakkale is not a normal war. Indeed, Çanakkale was an extraordinary battle where the breasts were shielded from the enemy, where bullets collided with each other in the air. Çanakkale was also the battle of those who remembered that there were enough people to take their wounded enemy off the battlefield and deliver him to the enemy trenches. The hunger of England's glorious fleet, the greatest naval force in the world, in the Battle of the Bosphorus, should never be taken out of memory by tomorrow's national defenders. Here, the Turkish soldier's resistance, determination and spirit, compared to other nations' soldiers, which are equipped with the world's most powerful armor and the most modern weapons, equipment and plenty of ammunition, also has historical value in the sense that our Turkish War of Instruation bears equal meaning with the spirit of Kuvaimilli. So the giant armadas fought a bunch of old-fashioned cannons, even suspected of firing, only 1,900 rounds on land, while the Turkish artillery on land could fire 4,000 bullets on our single battery. However, four Turkish cannons were damaged on land by this hail of bullets, and 44 cannons were seen to have been buried in the throat waters on enemy ships alone. In fact, the truth was that modern weapons were fighting faith and faith. Their dream was to expel the people who made Kostantiopolis Istanbul and to crush the enemy, to resurrect Byzantines. Why else would they have come tens of thousands of miles into our land? Mehmet Akif as the deceased said: The Old World, the New World, the whole acronym, It boils like sand, apocalypse, truth apocalypse. You're looking at seven climates of jihad, You're looking at it with Australia: Canada! The faces are different, the languages, the skins are colorful. There's a simple incident: violence equals violence. Some Hindus, some cannibals, some trouble... You know, that awful invasion in Tauna... Members of parliament, in Çanakkale, there was not only an example of courage, but also a quality that peaked in human dignity and dignity. A true story about the Battle of Çanakkale: a large dressing place is being established in the village of Kossere. Some are brought in, some are Bosnian, some are Adıyaman, some are Georgian, some are Aleppoli. One of them is from the Beybaş village of Lapseki, and his wound is quite severe. It's hard to breathe. It sticks to its commander's dress, it's hard to breathe, but there's a lot of words coming out of its lips, and there's a lot of chance I'm going to die. I've written a compass, deliver it to my friend. I've taken a loan from my villager İbrahim Corporal of Lapsekili. I didn't see him. Perhaps I'll die, and he'll give you his right. Don't worry, my son. He says, "Don't worry, while his blood is red-painted with his forehead, he'll be a martyr in the commander's arms, and then he'll be a martyr in his arms." No more than a few hours later, the wounded are brought in there all the time. Many of these are martyrs before the bandage is delivered, the items that appear on the martyrs, the dog tags, are delivered to the commander. Here's a dog tag and a compass again. The commander hasn't had a chance to wipe his tears yet. He opens the compass, sob reads it, and he falls down where he is, and he closes his hands to his face, and he can't stop him from shaking or crying. Note on the compass: I lent my friend Halil. He couldn't see me. We're about to launch an attack. Maybe I can't go back, tell my friend, I've given him my blessing. In fact, it's faith and power that Seyit Corporal puts a 300-pound bullet on his back and puts it on his back, hits the shrapnel clock in Conkbayir instead of Mustafa Kemal's heart, gives the 57th Regiment, which has lost two-thirds of its presence. The nameless heroes of Çanakkale, who purposely held the front that he left behind his friend, ran from every corner of the country to the front, never thought to return for the flag, for the land, for the oppressor, for the sake of the land, for the sake of his dignity and honor, did his duty well, to preserve his honor and dignity. By gaining the victory of Çanakkale, they have not only achieved victory, but continued the existence of the Turkish nation in Anatolia, and they have justly earned the title of "Mehmetchik" in the heart and heart of the Turkish nation, the army of the Prophet. The blood on the flag that makes the flags. The land is the land if any have died for it. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, by willingly changing the fate of a nation by willingly giving their lives for the sacred homeland, our country, our sovereignty, their unwavering faith, their unwavering courage, our saintly martyrs have written a unique epic story in the world. As the poet said, they fell to the ground for the sake of their land, and were shot in the clean forehead for the sake of a crescent, and went into the arms of the Holy Prophet, instead of the holy prophet. Those who have watered the land of the land with their own blood, those who write this saga, those who equate our country with those who want to invade it in the name of peace, are the present-day representatives of the elite. Such people should be well known by our society. On this occasion, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our republic, our martyrs of Çanakkale, and all the saints and veterans we have given so far, remember once again with respect and gratitude on behalf of the National Party of Action, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0008par0158	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Corporate. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0009par0163	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, with the joint assessment of all groups, we remember our Canakkale martyrs and that great victory in Çanakkale. Once again, we honor and honor our ancestors, our elders, who lost their lives in this struggle against the imperialists. Yes, in fact, it is both necessary and important for our Parliament and all groups to speak on the subject, especially in its 100th year, to draw conclusions from it today. Speaking before me, the representatives of the group made more and more talks and evaluations on those who performed heroic deeds in Çanakkale, presented myths, and were driven to the front from all four sides of Asia Minor, our homeland, where they gave their lives without fear. History is our history; history must, of course, be known in all its aspects, in all its realities. And to remember, as applied today, without some twists, especially by learning lessons and pointing to the needs of today, I think it's our duty to our thousands of people in that land, our duty to them. What happened a hundred years ago in the Canakkale Strait? In the fight to share with the British, French imperialists and German imperialists in the First World War, the use of the Ottoman State in the war and the destruction of our land, at the cost of the throats, and, as we are told today, our people have fought an unrelenting battle on the front of all nations, from all nations, from Turkey, Kurdish, Arab, Alevi, Armenian, all nations, and from all nations, who have been cut off from the bosoms of Anatolia, as we say today. Despite all the deprivations, they've written a great epic, such as his name, but they've put up a real fight to defend his home, to protect his future, to defend his home against the imperial invaders. Now, I'd like to remind those who are talking about epic writing again today. It's one thing to fight the invaders, to fight them bravely; today we want democracy, freedom, equality, life for the youth of this country. It's one thing to shoot bullets, to fire gas flares, to inflict violence, to terrorize the state. It's not epic, I just wanted to remind you once again to remember the heroics of our Çanakkale martyrs and the Battle of Çanakkale. Of course, the AKP government, in particular, has been doing a lot of political material in recent years, on the Chanakkale Sea Victory and on the ground wars as well as on the sacrifices of our people. Today, the Prime Minister was speaking again at the memorials in Çanakkale, where he once again applied to words such as the state, honor, honor, honor, and dignity, and today, at work, we did not owe the IMF another penny by giving IMF samples. Dear lawmakers, esteemed MPs, my dear friends, our motion on the economy today will be discussed anyway. Now we have to accept that our economy is not bright at all, that we no longer owe the IMF a penny, that we no longer have any value to today's debts, current account deficits, inflation, devaluation, unemployment, poverty. We need to deal with our economic realities in a way that is much more accurate and accurately informing our people. The losses of Çanakkale, the sacrifices of Çanakkale, and the sacrifice created there; the freezing to death of 90 thousand soldiers in Sarikamis, the responsibilities of the Ottoman Pashas here, the emels connected to the imperialists, so it is necessary to speak of them before we forget that it is the German Pasha who commanded our soldiers and our army in the Battle of Çanakkale, which we are very proud of. The evil role of the imperialists in history is to invade the land, to encapsulate the people, to divide the people, to provoke the people, to plunder the land as a marketplace, to seize its natural, historical riches, resources, to do it in every plan, to commit genocide... that evil role of the imperialists had to play, now there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, we need to keep alert. Therefore, when you have such values in our history, you need to see the reasons, the reasons, the reasons in their background. In particular, it is necessary for young generations to learn history in the education of whom we desire to have it. See, as Mr. President was speaking to a youth population we can call AKP youth again on the 100th year's basis of this memory of Çanakkale, our young men would not be Vandals who would burn to the left; there would not be young men who would attack women, who would rape them, who would rebel against the state, who would do similar things like this, who would create a form of youth that he wanted to create himself. He was a nationalist, religious, and also a model of youth that was ready to fight against those other than his own ideas, other than his own ideals.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0010par0176	Mr. Levent isn't drawing a nationalist model.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0009par0177	However, the criticism of Mr. President who gave this speech was also treated as preventive detention, as were young people who voiced criticism of Mr. President's stances in the country today, just as today -- taking the blood of mothers -- insulting mothers for various reasons, for reasons, the mothers' wishes to be questioned and arrested for reasons. Likewise, some columnists, journalists' criticisms presidents, should be tried in this way, for example. Now, on one hand is a history, a very important history page in which we really come to this day, a very historic, important, glorious page that we might call the First Battle of National Liberation, followed by an understanding that, behind it, at the point of almost denial, there is a multinational, multinational, multi-identitarian community in the Ottoman geography, which denies the reality of this war on the front, followed by a nationalist, separatist, separatist, separatist, separatist, separatist of the word. What's all this for? It's just what I say it is, it's what I say it is, it's a power that lasts. So, on the other hand, if one side of our history is a life-threatening struggle against heroics, civil war, homeland defense, imperialist invaders, colonialists, but on the other hand, the denial of the peoples after National Liberation and the republic, the denial of the peoples, just to dominate a monotheistic understanding in the country, the building of a religious, conservative society, the building of another, the Sunni sect, the idea, the idea, the idea, the belief, on the other side, the right of the people outside of the Turkish peoples, the right to continue their lives, their culture, their national identity, especially the Kurds, the Armenians. Now, perhaps there is a quest to learn from our history of all these massacres, dark pages, and there is a process of resolution, but we hear from the Prime Minister's mouth that he explains the solution with compassion and compassion. Look, dear lawmakers, Mr. Speaker, we're going through a very important process. A hundred years of history, a ninety-two-year republic, all of which, facing the future, in unity, together, in health, peace, prosperity, and peace, but above all, to walk as equal, free, honorable citizens. In these things, we have to be able to say wrong, and in what needs to be done, we have to make the right decisions, so we have to approach them. The Kurdish problem... On that day, the people of Hakkari, Batman, and Siirt, who lie in the land of Çanakkale, who we all honor today... Likewise, Agop, our Armenian citizens with other names, he was good at fighting there, but on the other hand, at the same time in Istanbul, in Babıali, in Sultanahmet, the Armenian intellectuals were being exiled. Look, April 24th is a time when everyone's talking about a reckoning, a period of propaganda, but most of all, the French, the Americans, what's here, we have to do it. Why is that? On the one hand, when we're fighting in Çanakkale, there's no way we can cross that which we're all proud of. If we're going to claim the legacy of those who wrote Lockbahir's blood, then the Armenians who fought on the front, then the exile, the genocided Armenians (X), and the fact that we still suffer today, and the Armenian policy that led to the slaughter of our precious intellectuals like Hrant, we have to question Kurdish politics, our policies against the Flames. It is the democratic culture, the democratic solution, that will bring us all to the right path. If we're going to call it a solution, as I just said, not compassion, not compassion, we all have rights from birth, from being part of the human society. As a Turk, I have rights, as a Kurdish, my friends have rights, our people have rights from other nationalities. What will happen, my dear? What are we all missing? We don't develop a president, a state politics attitude, attitude by approaching a problem, as the citizen in the street, in the neighborhood, in the coffee shop is approaching. Isn't it obvious what we lack, what the Kurds lack? First of all, in this struggle for identity, there are lives lost in the struggle for equal citizenship. We came from a war. So, what we mean is that war is not a war against the imperialists, but I am a people, and I have been in this land from the past to the present, and I will be from now on, but if we're going to live together, if this country is our common country, we need to rebuild it as a democratic country. We need to come up with a new constitution, a new definition of citizenship, new political freedoms, new management models, but, of course, not by fighting, fighting, arguing, arguing, and developing politics... here, we're all in charge of developing a process where our friends from the multinationalist community, especially a negotiation, where they criticize it as a process of dark forces, a process full of unknowns, and they're questioning it. If he has a debt of gratitude to our fallen in history, if we owe a debt of loyalty, and we come to these days, if we have a duty in their struggle, then we need to talk about today. We're missing a lot, actually. Those dead people don't even have graves, those kids, those teenagers. The unsub's been compromised. Let them come out, let them be investigated, let the commissions be set up, let the House run it, let it run it. What do Kurds not have? At first, his native language was ignored. Education in the native language is still the most basic issue today, and perhaps the most talked about in terms of constitutional change. Look, we don't have a lot of congressional friends from the HDP Group today. Why not? I mean, against today, not because it doesn't make sense to them. The week we're in is the week of Nevroz, the week of which they celebrate, in the provinces, in the provinces, in the towns, in the villages, in the villages, in the Middle East people, in the Kurdish people, in all the peoples of this geography, in the celebration of Nevroz. In part of the Nevroz, the celebrations are a process from history, which has historical significance, but as important as that, here we are today, in search of a process of peace and resolution with Mr. Ocalan for the past two years, everyone today has planted their ears today, waiting to see how the message from Mr. Ocalan will be included. Why is that? Because it's important for all of us now that our young people don't die in conflict, and that from now on, the efforts to guarantee it, the needs to be pointed out. Dear lawmakers, the Kurdish problem has never been a problem for Kurds living in our country. Today, on that front, the Kurdish problem became a problem for all of us, the descendants of all of our ancestors who fought in the battle of Çanakkale, because we all had problems, especially the Turkish people, because equality, freedom, democracy will be for the whole country. But the point that we've come to with a 90-year-old republic... is it a historical struggle, coincidental? It's not like that. No Çanakkale is worthy of the blood he shed... the province of Çanakkale. On the one hand, there's another kind of fire with shipyards, thermal plants, dump facilities, environmental destruction, in the countryside, in the woodsheds, in the mines, in the quarry, in the fire. On the other hand, 20 percent of our country's unemployment, young unemployment, the descendants of the fight in Çanakkale, millions of young people today are unemployed. How are the women of Turkey now, carrying weapons to the front that day, waiting for their husbands, wives, men, and women who fought that day? Reproduced every day with contempt, sexist discrimination, in the family, in the street, in the coffee, in the state institutions, in the field of education, pushing women to a worse place every day, unfortunately, that's where the women of Turkey are at this point. Now, our biggest problem is to approach these problems today in a non-discrimination, non-discrimination language, where people will live together. So, as we commemorate the heroism of our history, on the other hand, the only way to avoid the mistakes that we've made and the other threats that are waiting for us today -- from imperial forces -- is to clarify them correctly, from Kurds, Armenians, Alevis, all persecuted, discriminated, oppressed, and responded to our people's wishes. Indeed, learning from mistakes will be the only way out of this day's work to satisfy every kind of deprivation we face. Otherwise, a oppressive, authoritarian government against those who seek rights, running the country by themselves as they please, as I say, arrest those who criticize me...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0011par0190	Mr. Corporate, your time is up, please finish your speech, I've given you an extension.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0009par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. So, history is our history, reality is our reality, and our will to live together is still very strong and strong, but the greatest need is a need for a democratic country, a society where everyone will participate in it without shame, without boredom, without dignity, without dignity, with all their rights, with freedom. And it's pretty obvious where that's coming from. So I think the calls of the Kurdish people and those who want peace, those who want democracy are the best answer to those who want to rule the country with these old notebooks again. Let the fires of neuroses illuminate our country in that sense, strengthen our unity and unity, and let no young man or man of this country be hurt again. I say let us stand together as equal citizens against the imperialists, against the colonials, against their compulsions, that we all live together as citizens of a full democratic, free country, as citizens of Turkey. Once again, we honor our martyrs. I wish for a future where there will be no such wars, no casualties, for all our peoples, and all our citizens, who follow him. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0012par0196	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Halaçoglu, do you have a request?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0013par0198	Mr. President, I have a request. Mr. Speaker has made some talks about Armenians in particular, which have nothing to do with the truth. In this regard, we need to correct the Çanakkale Wars and the martyrs at the present date, so as not to be misunderstood.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0014par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0015par0201	I promise Mr. Halaçoglu, then Mr. Vice President, I'll give you... Here, I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0016par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, now, of course, facing history is not an easy task. It's a great benefit for everyone to face their history. Really, I'd like to first determine the extent to which the Armenians face their history. I mean, what were you going to do when you were fighting for your life and death in Çanakkale, when your subjects, the Armenians, they were going to rise up against Van, they were going to cooperate with the Russians, and they were going to slaughter 80,000 people? Or what will you do if 20,000 of your soldiers were sent to Zaytun, instead of fighting the British who rebelled against the Armenians in Zaytun? You're at war and you're fighting on four fronts. First of all, you have to put these back together. Second: you're talking about Kurds. What Kurdish tribes collaborated with the Russians during World War I? I mean, come on, I'm talking about a lot of tribes, especially the Bedirhans. Who had been decorated by the Russians? It's not easy to face history. Come on, if you're going to face history, let's face it together. Look, as a state, we called to the Armenians, and we said, "Here we are, the committee of historians, and let this be resolved together by the committee of historians." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But why won't anyone come in? Because they can't face their dates, they don't have faces. Now, we're not supposed to be talking randomly here. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0017par0215	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0018par0217	We're having a special session on Çanakkale. As Levent Bey said at the end of his speech, we hold a special session because he has a quality that we should contribute to his will to live together, but he has connected with Çanakkale in a daily, polemicist political language, not enough, and has made severe criticisms against our President and Prime Minister that they do not deserve. I want words in this frame.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0017par0218	Yes, you have my word. However, as you pointed out, we're making a special agenda, and we all appreciate the courtesy of it... and the public is already listening, following all the speeches, so please, in that frame...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0019par0219	Mr. President, there's actually no bullying in the speech here. Each group, of course, will think differently about certain events, and it's not right for you to make it a polemic issue on such an agenda, in a matter that does not involve direct grouping.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0017par0220	I don't want to do it, but we know which Civil Code rules you evaluate when you're not promised to pick on them.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0019par0221	No, there's no such thing as teasing. A framework has been established that combines the view of the People's Democratic Party's history with the current.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0017par0222	So, don't worry, we've made a warning, he'll make a compromise in that frame, or he won't tease you. Yeah, well, it wouldn't be right if he did. Come in, Mr. Bostanci, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0020par0226	Mr. President, dear friends, if I pick on you, it's obvious, and Mr. Idris will take his word for it. We're here in a private session. It's really important that he wants to live together. The will to live together is not spontaneous, it takes effort and effort to build it. As we look at history, we can read history in different ways, but if there is a special session today, it would be right to approach it with an understanding that is in line with the spirit of this special session, in line with the desire to live together. Mr. Levent agrees, so at the end of his words, I'm stressing that. But excuse me, setting up 18 minutes of a 20-minute speech on a polemic criticism of Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, is not a form of support for that will. I say the Polemicist will see that he is a truer. Ideology is already the decapitation of nature, so it sees itself as being the same as nature, and it doesn't see any other kind of reality. Mr. Levent may think he's talking about such a reality, but to me, it's not, it's a polemic language, it shouldn't be available today. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0230	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0022par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0232	Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0022par0233	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to see our friends criticize and tease...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0234	This is the last conversation. Is he coming back now, and you're going to tell him...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0022par0235	No, no, I'm just about to close...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0236	Come on, let's give you some. We're off to a good start, but we have to finish well. It's a meaningful day, I'd like to ask...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0022par0239	Mr. President, don't worry, we'll finish well, don't worry, just as we've just been told, we all have the will to live together in this country, we have the determination to solve these problems, there's no other chance than that it's good, but in order for it to be good, we have to get real close to them. First of all, we need to respect our democratic assessments here. So now the three groups' assessment of the Battle of Çanakkale and our martyrs was more of a reminiscent conversation that was limited to that date. Mine, differently, was an assessment of the results of today's events in our country, Turkey. What we need most is a democratic future. This is in terms of the country's governance, and in terms of the burning peace our peoples need, and in terms of Kurds and Armenians. Of course, Mr. MHP, as the Deputy President of the Group said, there were riots in that date, which meant that there was no way to participate in an assessment that would mean "killing vacipti."
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0242	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0023par0243	It's not like I said anything about a murder vacipti. It's not like it's about a killer.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0022par0244	But there's no way to talk about it in two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0021par0245	Thank you. Anyway... it's all in the transcripts. Hopefully, the readers will consider it objectively. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Aysenur Islam. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0024par0254	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you all know, are the century of the 20th century world wars. The first war, which began in 1914 in Europe, soon spreads throughout the region and under the influence of the Ottoman State. If Ilber is the longest century of the empire in the 19th century, we can also accept that 1915 is the longest year of the century. The First World War, supposedly started with an assassination, was a massive fire where millions of people were killed by two bullets. About five months after the start of the war, the Ottoman Empire enters the process, and 100 years ago, in this land, the most important battle for independence and sovereignty in the history of the world. It is clear that the Çanakkale and Istanbul Straits, which have always had a geopolitical value, have increased their value exponentially during the war. To control these two throats is to control the political, commercial and certain military activities of states on the coast of the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, as well as to control the activities of the marine forces in private, as well as the shipping of these states. The control over the throats is an indirectly effective control over the commercial activities of environmental states. During the war, this issue is widely discussed, and the thesis that the British can only be reached by the navy and then by Istanbul is weighted. Some arrangements were taken by the Ottoman army before the war to defend the throat, of course. The throat is mined, the number of mine lines is increased, the plates are arranged, the lights are placed for night observation and accurate shooting, and on 5 February 1915, fishing nets are stretched behind the last mine line in the southern part of the Bosphorus, which prevents submarines from crossing. The British send the Queen Elizabeth, the most modern armoured of the Royal Navy, the French send their best fleets to the region. The naval operations of the Ottoman states begin on February 19, 1915. By March 13, 1915, enemy ships keep our plates on cannon fire and mine-scan ships travel as far as they can. The Ottoman fleet is on the defensive. By the morning of 7-8 March, the Nusret Mine ship managed to pour 26 mines in parallel to Erenköy Bay, with a distance of 100 meters under the command of Captain Hakkak, regardless of the projectors of enemy ships. This action will soon change the fate of the war. As a matter of fact, on the morning of March 16th, the French Admiral Karden left his post on the grounds that he had a nervous breakdown. On March 18th, part of the ships of the foreign states were sunk, some were eliminated, and 100 years ago today, Çanakkale could not be passed. Field Marshal Otto Harbor von Sanders describes the surprise of the states of alliance in these words: "It is impossible to describe Çanakkale as a soldier. What is a human structure of steel, of spiritual power, of love of the land? The answer to that question is this modest, client and silent Anatolian child himself. The course of war changes after March 18th. After this first victory in the Bosphorus, the landings of the Gallipoli Peninsula begin with the hellish bombings carried out by the world's most powerful armoured. In order to cross the land, Çanakkale has been released to the Gallipoli Peninsula by the nations of confiscation since 25 April. This time, Australia finds a Turkish army of hundreds of thousands of Mehmets across the nations of the Anzaks of New Zealand soldiers. They plan to fight the troops on land and then cross the straits on the sea. They fail in Ariburnu, in Seddulbahir. In June 1915, the two corps of 20,000 French and 31,000 British soldiers launched a general assault in support of armored vehicles. Both sides suffer great losses in these collisions. The enemy is stopped, but in two months 100,000 martyrs have been given. However, the British in particular have risked everything to reach the Sea of Marmara. At Anafartas, they are repelled at Conk Ridge, and eventually on January 9, 1916, they almost retreated in secret. In the Battle of Çanakkale, where we have given a total of 250,000 martyrs, the British lost 100,000 and the French lost 50,000 soldiers. One of Darulfu's followers, İsmail Hakkı Bey, explains: "The defense of Chanakkale has been taken and won. But the mission is over for only soldiers and commanders, not for us, not even begun. Let everyone know that those who shed their blood here have always died for this history, honor and virtue. You have to pay their blood debt. Let the poets write their epics, let the painters draw their tablets, let the sculptors put forth their monuments, let the warriors write their stories, and let the survivors read Fatih. Samipaşazade Sezai says that the defense of Chanakkale is a battle of three miracles. One, for saving the state; two, for returning the glory of the past; three, for making our country a homeland. The most undisputable consequence of the battle of Çanakkale is that it has made this land an eternal homeland for all of us and for all of us. Çanakkale is a concept of Ottoman geography. Young and old, men and women from all over the Ottoman lands, have enjoyed the geography of hundreds of thousands of people. They literally brought forth the spirit of Çanakkale, with tremendous resistance against seven heifers. Mr. President, I'd like to complete my statement with a few sentences from this bench eighty-five years ago: there is a Mehmet in Çanakkale territory, there is a Mehmet in Dumlupınar, there is a Mehmet in Sakarya, there is a Mehmet in Inönü, there is a Mehmet in history, there is a Mehmet in the air of this Assembly. This is Mehmet. You can see it in the person of this merchant, or in the person of the entire country, or in the person of the entire history, but it is the spirit of Mehmet, who brings these provisions, these days, these provisions. Mehmet, who is dust in the heavens, who is dust in the trench, and Mehmet, who is boiling in the sea, who melts like water, Mehmet the soldier, Mehmet the sailor, Mehmet the sailor, Mehmet the Turk's history, we are after you, and you are after us, Mehmet. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I ask God's mercy to all of our Mehmets who have come to eternity, and I express my thanks to our veterans and heroes once again. I celebrate the 100th anniversary of Çanakkale Deniz Victory and the Day of Martyrs, and on this blessed day I salute all my people.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0025par0267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear MPs, the 1915 Çanakkale Kara and Sea Wars Victory is completed at the 100th anniversary of the Sea Wars and the March 18th Day of Martyrs. We'll go to the usual interviews.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0026par0270	Mr. President, may I have the floor?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0025par0271	Is this about this?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0026par0272	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0025par0273	We'll continue to talk about this again, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0026par0274	No, sir, now we've listened very carefully to the speech of Mr. Levent Tüzzel, the Istanbul MP. There was talk of genocide, and I propose that this be taken off the books.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit01spe0025par0275	All right, let's get the transcripts, and if there is, we'll do something like that. Thank you. The talks are complete, we'll proceed with the usual interviews. Again, Mr. Izzet Cetin, Mr. Mustafa Erdem and Mr. Selçuk Özdağ will speak in the same order, but I interrupt the talks in ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0027par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to our usual meetings today. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Izzet Çetin, who wants to mention the March 18 Martyrs Memorial Day and the 100th anniversary of Çanakkale Deniz Victory. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0028par0009	Mr. President, I've been promised off the agenda because of the 100th anniversary of Çanakkale Deniz Victory and Memorial Day of Martyrs. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Çanakkale wars, which change the course of history, are one of the most critical stages of the imperialist World War I. Despite every absence and negativity in the battle of Çanakkale, which historians call our republic's foreword, our martyrs have been immortalized in the heart of our nation. The Battle of Çanakkale was a stage for the resistance of historical freedom and independence against imperialism, as it was for the struggle, and also for the history of the greatest revolutionary ever seen. Our unique commander of the National Liberation War, our nation's luck and the founder of our republic, the great genius Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who led and set an example in the struggle for the liberation of the oppressed nations, has emerged in this battle as Commander Mustafa Kemal. On March 18, 1915, the imperialist forces that planned to cross Çanakkale were defeated and the land wars that began on April 25, 1915 resulted in independence, freedom, brotherhood, and the spirit of unity. Those who could not cross the valley of Çanakkale tried to reach their goal on land, but failed. Our troops under the command of Commander Mustafa Kemal Ataturk have also established a great example of defence and heroism and resulted in the victory of the land war. This victory is the disappointment of Winston Churchill's "We didn't count on a single person, Mustafa Kemal." It must have led to his confession. The victory of Çanakkale has also been a source of great morale and motivation for the National Liberation War behind it. In this war, once again, a historic struggle was fought and resulted in victory, led by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who gained the confidence of the people, a legendary hero, who entered the hearts of the people. Mr. President, there is an understanding in our country today that distorts historical facts, ignores historical facts, transforms historical events into their own ideology. For a long time, this understanding worked to ease the historical significance of the victory of Çanakkale, and of the great soldier Mustafa Kemal. Those who are uncomfortable with the Ataturk principles and revolutions and the achievements of the republic are also members of the same understanding that carries the wind to the sails of imperialist profiteers. Those who are troubled by the name of Ataturk today are also troubled by the victory of Çanakkale and the War of Salvation. Diyanet, ruled by a man who walked around in a million-dollar luxury armored cars, who was not left behind in the show of glory, does not speak of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the most important commander of the war in the war, in which he taught for the victory of Çanakkale. It is also a grave situation to consider when someone who owes his seat to Ataturk, who owes it to him, ignores him, ignores him, resents him. These are the ones who are looking for secular, modern-day regimes that can't digest the Republic of Turkey. It's those who consider our republic, the blood of our beloved martyrs, the blood of our ancestors, as their father's farm. Their grandfather, Çanakkale, is well aware of the value and value of Ataturk and the secular republic, who have been martyred on many fronts for freedom and independence. Any attempt and plan against the secular democratic republic has always been repelled by our people, and it will then be repelled. With this feeling and thought, on the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, the founder of our republic, the Veterans of Çanakkale Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, our heroic martyrs and veterans, I honor and thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0029par0020	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0030par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Highly valued MPs, in honor of the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Çanakkale, who entrusted this land, this state, this religion, this nation, to us, and our martyrs of Çanakkale, remember all our martyrs and veterans with love, respect, mercy, and gratitude, and I salute you all with love and respect. Honourable MPs, the office of witness is the highest place in the life of this world, and not an easy place to reach. Our great book, the Quran, is a value that they have purchased with their possessions and lives for those who have attained the dignity of martyrdom in the Lord. Today, those who have left us a trust in Çanakkale, who have taught us seven heifers in Çanakkale, who have made Çanakkale uninterruptable, who have preferred the Hereafter in the life of the world, and who must seek the pleasure of Allah by putting forth their possessions and their lives. Again, our great book, the Qur'an, describes the People of the Book as the Right, the People of Faith, the People of Faith, and those who prefer others over themselves, even though they themselves are in need. Yesterday, as a human being in Çanakkale, people who have the right to live as much as we do as we have to live as we have to live as a servant, have the right to enjoy the world's blessings that God has dedicated to them, as much as we have, their dreams, our ambitions and ideals, as much as we do, have entered into the land of the land, so that this nation will not be persecuted, nor be subjected to the feet of this nation, nor will they be drawn to the sacred land of a rose. Dear lawmakers, those who stand in our country today who say that they are keeping their trust, not their inheritance, must at least put their hands on their faces in ignorance of God, and test whether their actions are worthy of God's approval. Dear MPs, those who didn't know what freedom meant to those who buried their youth in Çanakkale yesterday, those who didn't know what freedom meant, those who formed an alliance with the enemy, and sold their homeland today, how their descendants were condemned to drown in the sea of blood and tears, in the Middle East, in the sea of tears, I humbly, with regret, with grief, with grief, in the presence of the great Turkish nation, in your presence, in order to prevent such a bitter fate. Dear lawmakers, the event that makes Çanakkale impossible is the spirit of knowing what it means to believe what it means, what it means to be home. They were so convinced that without a country, there was no state, there was no freedom of state, and there was no chance of being an honorable human being. They were Muslims. They knew that without a country, there would be no chastity, honor, honor, dignity, and more than that, there would be no Muslim life without a country, without a state, and they were eager to protect their flag, their state, against the enemy's boots in some way, and to enter the ground young for it. Dear MPs, I regret to say that yesterday, even though they were members of the Ottoman State, even the disciples called the Turkish military, they were the people who honored the Turkish nation and brought seven duvets to the Turkish nation's name, but today, sadly, their homeland, those who ruled over their land, they have no reason to say "Turk (Turkish)." I'd like to point out what Turkish nationalism stands for: But, remember, don't think that the glory of our ecdad is the marufi jihan/fit changes, this blood is also that deception! It says, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0031par0034	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0032par0039	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who ran to the front a hundred years ago, knowing that they would not return to the imperialism, He was shot and laid down with a clean forehead, For the sake of a crescent, Lord, neither suns set! O soldier, who has fallen to the ground for this land! If he kissed her with a bow from the sky, she would be worthy of his forehead. You're too big to save your blood. The lions of Bedr were only this fortunate. Who's gonna dig up the victim that's not too tight for you? If I told you to bury you in history, you wouldn't fit. Akakkale is the name of a battle of existence, which Akif had expressed in his wonderful lines and was likened to the lions of Badir. There is also a deep connection between our victory at Çanakkale, and our Instlical March is connected to Mehmet Akif; it is possible to see the traces of the Istiklal anthem in his poem to the martyrs of Çanakkale. In a more accurate way, we also have the Canakkale Victory in the background of our Istrillal March. We celebrate the 100th year of the victory of Çanakkale. This victory, of course, is not the only victory in our history, but it is the battle and victory of our future, which has influence today, Çanakkale. In order to protect Istanbul and our last port of refuge, the Anatolian province is the name of the legend written a hundred years ago against seven heifers. It's called Çanakkale. For the sake of religion, Islam, the Order, the flag, and the sovereignty, it is the myth of Mehmetçikelle, who ran to the positions to drink the martyrdom of his friend without blinking an eye. It's the name of the poem written by the Muslim Turkish nation, Çanakkale, who shielded their breasts so as not to restore dignity and honor, not to touch our temples, not to touch the Namahrem hand, not to soothe the seda of our oppressors. Dear lawmakers, Çanakkale is the nuance of the Battle of Salvation resistance. The resistance plant in Çanakkale has released branches in the national struggle. Çanakkale is the front for us where determination is noticed, and Sakarya is the front where determination becomes victory. Çanakkale, Meshhed Ali of Azerbaijan, Ali Arrat of Afghanistan, Ilyas of Batum, Yakup of Bitlis, Mehmduh of Silverhani, Memduh of Diyarbakır, Rauf of Crete, Hajji İbrahim of Hajcı, Hasan of Manisa, and Halil Özakça of Ankara are the greatest martyrs of the world if there are any who die in the cause of the earth. Precious lawmakers have shown the world that the Ottomans, who have soon lost their land in Europe, who have lost to the smaller states in the Balkans, have resurfaced with Çanakkale, and will live forever, tearing apart the shroud that had been cut down on themselves, and that power is not just in the gun. Churchill said we'd tie one hand behind our backs and crush it with one hand before the war even began. He imagined that they would enter Istanbul without any resistance. The Turkish nation buried Churchill and its allies' dreams and accounts on this land in the cool waters of Çanakkale. Mr. President, if we had been defeated in Çanakkale, the consequences of the First World War would have been more painful for us, and perhaps we would have lost the entire territory of Anatolia. The Republic of Turkey is still an Ottoman state for those with ambition and accountability on this land. Those who tried to drown us in Çanakkale yesterday are the same forces that turned the Middle East and Africa into a pool of blood today. The games of those with account and enthusiasm on this geography are still under way. We need to set up all our plans for the future to break those accounts, evaluate what happened with the faith and dedication of Çanakkale. In this framework, we need to understand the message of the victory of Çanakkale, which extends to this day and gives hundreds of thousands of martyrs to the entire Turkish nation. In Çanakkale, the martyred apothecary gave us a spirit. The name of this spirit is the spirit of Çanakkale. This spirit invites us to join together in the same goal, in the same faith, in the same wisdom; it shows us with a victory that brings to the whole world what myths can be written in unity. It is our duty as nations to live in the brotherhood of our martyrs who lie in Çanakkale, to live with their youth, their youth, their age, their man, their east, and their west; to raise our young ones with the spirit of Çanakkale; to take care of the values they die for our martyrs, and to make efforts to live with them. As long as we keep the spirit of unity and unity alive in Çanakkale, there is no goal that we can't achieve, and there is no issue that we can't overcome. Dear lawmakers, 250,000 martyrs in this saintly town are still on guard there. We are children of a civilization that believes that martyrs are not dead. They're alive with a life we don't know. They have given us a holy land by drinking the sherbet of witness. It is our duty to protect this relic, to know every stone in Çanakkale. The Ottoman armies in Çanakkale, acting commander-in-chief Enver Paşaya, Cevat and Esat Pasha, the founder of our republic, who was a commander in the battle of Çanakkale - Gazi Mustafa Kemale, thousands of commanders and students who have never returned to the front line, will be protected by every stone you have entrusted to us. The land you have not broken will not be violated by any force until the end of time. It's our national spirit guide that you fermented in Çanakkale. For us, every inch of the land is Çanakkale. Blessed be the 100th year of our victory. I pay my respects. God be with you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0033par0065	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Dear MPs, today is the March 18th Memorial Day and the 100th anniversary of the Canakkale Sea Victory. We're having a historic day. The victory of Çanakkale is an inspiration for a nation that wants to be erased from history to show its country and its existence how to defend it at the cost of its life. The victory of Çanakkale is the most beautiful and painful truth of all who live in this country are brothers and share the same fate. The Chanakkale Victory process is an epic example of world history, where we prove that we feel the same brotherhood for the people of other countries. The sense of brotherhood is most genuinely expressed by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in Conkbayri, where heroes shed their blood on the land of this land, where you are in the land of a friend, where we sleep in peace and quiet. You're next to the Mehmets, the sheep's sheep's sheep. Mothers who send their children to war from distant lands, make your tears stop. Your children will be in our arms, at peace, and they will rest in peace. After they gave their lives in this land, they are now our children. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak to all who follow us: To understand the suffering of this country, this country, our history, and the triumphs of suffering, we need to see the historic National Park of Gallipoli to understand how our young people fell to the ground for every inch of this land. Every time Mehmet Akif Ersoy says, "Hey, if he were to go down there and kiss the soldier who fell to the ground for this land, he would be worth it." I wish that the brotherhood established on the road to the victory of Çanakkale sheds light on our future. I proudly remember all our martyrs, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and honor them and bow before their memories. I'm a martyr's grandson. In the days of the campaign, I fondly remember Kazim Efendi, Mehmet Efendi, Mehmet Efendi and Kamil, who had been killed on the Palestinian front, and who had been martyred in Sarıkamiş, who had been killed in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0034par0075	Mr. President, if you're done, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0033par0076	It's over.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0034par0079	Now, Mr. President, in the special session of the Çanakkale wars, the MP who spoke for the People's Democratic Party used a sentence exactly like this: the fighting Armenians, exile, genocided Armenians, and today we must question our Armenian policy, which has still suffered and led to the slaughter of valuable intellectuals such as Hrant. He has made a statement here, claiming that Armenians had been massacred. It is not possible for us to accept this in this way in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, because it is not possible for us to present an issue that does not exist here, to be racist here, to be able to accept that the Armenians, in fact, to use the word,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, the word, that betrays their state. I don't think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would agree. If necessary, I demand that you put this to a re-voting in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that it be removed from this place, that it be removed from the proceedings.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0035par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0036par0083	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0035par0085	Mr. President, genocide has come to the attention after World War II as a legal concept. The Armenians in the diaspora aimed at different goals, linking the events of 1915 to this legal concept after 1945. In 1915, there were great dramas in Ottoman lands, great sufferings; Armenians suffered and massacres. Likewise, disasters are involved in other areas of Asia Minor. The historians may have a lot of words to say about this, but within the National Assembly, in this place, which is part of the will to represent the nation, I consider it unfortunate to use the expression of genocide in the way the Armenian diaspora distorts history to different purposes, and I demand that it be removed from the text. The Armenians, as you know, are what are called the Ottoman Empire. Translation room activities during the Tanzimat period have been left entirely to the Armenians. Armenians have a great contribution to the Ottoman Empire. Of course, there's Ohannes Pasha. For example, as a master, as an architect, as an industrialist, there are jobs they do as part of the empire. But on their way to 1915, they are recorded in the east by the Tasnak and Hnçak committees. So I don't think it's appropriate and acceptable for policymakers to use the Armenian diaspora's matuf discur for nationalistic purposes here. I demand that he be removed from the record.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0037par0090	Thank you. Mr. Corporate, would you care to make a statement?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0038par0092	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0037par0093	Your position, please. Mr. Corporate, Mr. Altay will also have an explanation. Let's listen to him if you want to do something collective. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0039par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Leaving history to historians is something we, as the Republican People's Party, have been saying all along. It's a case of events in the past that we don't want to happen amongst the people on the territory of Asia Minor. As Mr. Halaçoglu had just said on the stand, the Kurds and the Russians did this. We do not have a result for Turkey's future, for its safety. As the Republican People's Party, we also know that we accept and disapprove of the statement of the Armenian genocide, but of course we know that Armenians were killed, mutual killings, this is what happened, there is no problem in that, but there is a collection of Armenian genocides in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which I can't say is not true. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0040par0100	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0041par0103	Mr. President, thank you. I've just learned that testimony from my speech has been met by groups with a request to correct it. Now the Armenians, exile, genocide, the expression of reality... First of all, I'd like to point out that in terms of democratic functioning in Parliament, lawmakers and groups must be able to express their views without any restrictions, both within the framework of freedom of thought and the freedom of evaluation. But, of course, the issue of the Armenians is a very sensitive issue for both our House and the people of our country. No one wants to take on such evil as hostility to Armenians. Of course, we share those feelings about this, but here's the thing: there are painful events in our history. It's not called genocide by international judicial decisions, it's possible to agree with that aspect. Perhaps there, rather than a word of reality, such claims are expressed in the form of the international community. But the point is, we've always said that if we're going to live in peace, walk into the future, have the brotherhood of the people, on a date like April 24th, we're going to have a feather on it, and we're going to remember Anzale and we're going to dedicate this history there, not to do these memorial ceremonies there. With all our honesty, with history writers, with their politicians, on April 24th, it must be to bring to the table all the facts, all the facts, all the reviews. So, here we are today, Armenian brothers in peace and security, where the pigeon will be able to live without anxiety, without fear of disappearing here. Or the fact that the population of 1 million Armenians has fallen to thousands today is not their problem, but our problem, like the suffering of Kurds, is the problem of the majority in this country. That's what I wanted to say. If the word genocide creates such a sensitivity -- which I understand this sensitivity -- in no way should the expressions we use should not be restored to our brotherhood, to our common life, to the peace, and to our common responsibility in this investigation; I agree, in this respect, to correct it as "the allegations" and to our group, it will not be a problem for me as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0111	Thank you. The necessary correction has been made by Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0043par0113	Mr. President, just a minute. We don't quite understand how it's being changed.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0114	I should have said, "Indeed." He's making a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0043par0115	So you're going to change the Armenian claims that they've been broken into into into shapes?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0116	Now, look...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0043par0117	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0118	Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Tüzzel said that it is a sensitivity to express this matter in this way. I shouldn't have said that.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0043par0119	Then remove the word "substitution" from there completely.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0120	It's not up to me to rule out the word.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0043par0121	No, he'll take it off himself.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0042par0122	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0044par0123	That's not true, dear. Mr. President, would that be possible?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0125	I'm sorry, then...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0046par0126	Mr. Halaçoglu, can I have your attention? Now, Mr. Corporate has made his statement, I shouldn't have said that. And you say you're not satisfied with it, but I'm not authorized to remove that word from the transcripts. It's a presidential court decision. If you are not satisfied with this answer, you will write your petition according to Article 155 of the Civil Code, which the Presidential Court will decide.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0128	We'll do that, Mr. President, but here's what I want to say...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0046par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0130	First of all, the term genocide is nothing more than a political expression. The number of Muslims that Armenian gangs -- look, I'm not saying Armenians, I'm talking cautiously -- was among them, 518,301 people. In which village, in which area, there is a record of which gangs have been massacred. So, without such a record of Armenians, for what reason can there be a conversation in the name of genocide?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0046par0131	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0132	First of all, it's...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0046par0133	I mean, we're not in a state of historical debate here now, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0134	Sir, it's not a simple job; see, it's not a job that has anything to do with freedom of opinion; it means that a nation is accused of the most despicable crime.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0047par0135	No, I don't accept it at all, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0048par0136	Mr. Halaçoglu, there are allegations like this, like this.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0045par0137	In the Republic of Turkey, it is not possible to accept such a claim in the Turkish Republic's Grand National Assembly, such as the Parliament and Çanakkale wars. They need to be able to feel its sensitivity and film it themselves. I'd like to make that very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0049par0138	He did, and we know you're being sensitive.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0050par0139	Mr. President, he's made the necessary statement, Mr. Deputy, you can review the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0049par0140	If this cannot be satisfied, it is not my authority at this time to remove this word from the transcripts, and I will specifically ask you to act in accordance with Article 155. Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0051par0142	The genocide claim is an accusation of Turkey and Turkish enemies, which is unacceptable and unacceptable.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0049par0143	Mr. Akar, you've made a request according to 58. May I ask what statement you wish to correct?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0052par0144	That's where I put it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0049par0145	During my speech, I used a false expression.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0052par0146	Yeah, I used the wrong expression. Should I read my statement?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0053par0147	That's where he'll say it. Why would he say that here?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0052par0148	I'll say it there, sir, I want it for him.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0054par0149	It would have been much better if you'd told me, but here you are, all right.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0052par0150	No, it's okay, I can tell you right here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0054par0151	I mean, I'm going to ask Mr. Altay how to handle it from now on.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0055par0152	Mr. President, the Civil Code is very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0054par0153	I'll ask you. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0056par0155	I'll tell you right now.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0054par0156	The truth is, I mean, I'm not mad. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0056par0160	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, first, on March 18th, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, where a proud nation has proven itself to the world and changed the course of history. I remember with respect and mercy our saintly martyrs who allowed us to live freely in this land, primarily Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great Leader. Yeah, why did I want that word? In a paragraph of yesterday's speech, how did we get here in the paragraph on agriculture? Let's see: from 2003 to 2014, we imported 19 million tons of wheat and paid $19 billion. We imported 8 million tons of barley from 2003 to 2014, and we paid $6 billion 300 million for it. This sentence is completely wrong, it's a sentence I said wrong. I want to correct this sentence. Yeah, how did we really get here? Wheat production produced 19 million tonnes of wheat in 2003, while 19 million tonnes of wheat produced in 2014. So there was no increase in wheat production, but our population increased by 10 million during the 12 years of the AKP. I just wanted to point that out. [[x]] Again, there has been a significant decline in barley production in 2003, at 8 million 100 tonnes in 2014, at 6,300 thousand tonnes in 2014. Such decreases in grain products or food products are not proportional to the population, although the population has increased during AKP rulings. But as a result, a large amount of imports have been developed, and the area the size of 2 Thraces in Turkey has also become a country that has come out of agriculture and imports agricultural products because it can't produce and earn products because it can't afford them. [[x]] Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0057par0167	Thank you, too, Mr. Akar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The parliamentary delegation, consisting of members of the Austrian-Turkey Parliamentary Friendship Group, made an official visit to our country as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the ruling dated March 10, 2015 and 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken, including the legal arrangements for the unemployment issues of the province of Yozgat, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 105. [[Yozgat]] [[Inconceived]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Kastamon]] [[Samsun]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] Yozgat is a city in the capital of Asia Minor where agriculture is heavy. As a geographical position in central Asia Minor, there is unemployment in Yozgat, while the proximity to major cities such as Kayseri and Ankara should put our province in a more advantageous position. Our Yozgat province is constantly migrating. In the last ten years, Yozgat has moved as fast as he can. As of 2007, TİK's figures are clear. Lastly, on the basis of the 2010-2011 period, Yozgat is the 2nd most immigrating province since the earthquake disaster of Van province. Everyone knows that the cause of the migration in Van (Van) is an earthquake, but the reason for the migration in Yozgat needs to be investigated by authorities. According to age groups, most of the migratory population appears to be 40 years old and under. This shows that every passing year, Yozgat loses its young, dynamic and productive population. According to the Development Ministry's data, the distribution of public investments to this side from 2003 to the province of Yozgat has never been more than 60th place between 81 counties. In terms of population density and geographical size, even cities smaller than Yozgat have received more investments. In particular, in recent years, all public investments against production in Yozgat have been closed or privatised, no new investments have been made in favour of employment. Some district managers have also been removed. The closure of municipalities in some areas available for the development of tourism will result in the complete elimination of tourism, which is already inadequate. Because of these negativeities, unemployment and migration have increased rapidly and continues to increase. For such reasons, a parliamentary investigation must be launched in the province of Yozgat in order to find the unemployment problem in place and to clarify the matter and take the necessary precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although smoking is harmful to human health, it is an economically important consumption agent. A third of the population in Turkey consumes cigarettes and spends large sums of money. Most of this money goes to the safe of foreign cigarette monopoly. Smoking smuggling in our country is known for its damage to human health and economics. With all due respect, it is necessary to open Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to block the entry of illegal cigarettes into our country and prevent and determine the measures needed to be taken in order to prevent off-the-book trade. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 3) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[Elizipt]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tripoli]] [[Manisa]] [[Sakarya]] [[Mersin]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] The fight against tobacco products and alcohol smuggling is important in ways that prevent tax loss, protection of human health, obstruction of funding of terrorist and organised crime organisations, preventing unfair competition and providing registered employment. With the country's economic structure and the crime of smuggling tobacco products, which has become a major threat to public health, the risk for our country is increasing day by day. The smuggling of tobacco and tobacco products is often in violation of our land and sea borders. In the Eastern Anatolian region of 32.3 per cent of the customs fugitives seized across the country in 2011, 27.8 per cent of them were released on the domestic market through our provinces of Antalya and Mersin, with 12.8% in the Black Sea Region, 12.8% in the Mediterranean Region, and 12.8 per cent in the Mediterranean Region. International crime cartels in the Black Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean region have been found to have concentrated criminal activities against our country and Europe in 2011 from the autonomous zones of Romania, Georgia, Abkhazia, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria and the KKTC. On the other hand, in the 354 cases carried out by cargo method throughout the country in 2011, 1,324,25 packages of cigarettes were seized. It has been determined that the method of betting has been used by increasing acceleration in transferring illegal cigarettes from eastern provinces to western provinces and launching them in different provinces in the western region. Turkey has 30,000 tonnes of illegal cigarettes per year. So, out of every six cigarettes, one of them is on the run. According to official institutions, the economy is at $1.1 billion per year and 2.1 billion per tobacco expert. These numbers are estimated to be much higher. The fact that cigarette smuggling is less risky and easier than arms and drug trafficking, the lack of punishment according to current laws increases interest in illegal and counterfeit cigarettes. At the same time, the state is taxed for 2.5 billion dollars each year, while the terrorist organisation PKK provides serious logistical support. According to intelligence reports, the fake cigarette introduced in Turkey's market was produced in cigarette factories in northern Iraq, while the PKK played an active role in the country's entry and distribution. In order to prevent the loss of the Turkish economy and prevent the tax-paying tradesman from harming the state, I respectfully submit the Constitution's obligation to open a parliamentary investigation on Articles 104, 105, as required by Articles 104 and 105, in order to prevent illegal smuggling of cigarettes into our country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to international contracts, each individual under 18 years of age counts as a child and marriages under 18 are considered an early marriage. The number of applications for the use of this exceptional condition should rise, after the new Civil Code and the age limit of marriage are conditioned on the exception of 17 except the exceptions, and increasing the number of informal marriages made at the age of children's children's children's children's brides, which have been a problem for a long time in our country, suggests the need for measures to be taken. As it is known, early marriage results in the detention of girls, especially girls, above all else. On the other hand, being a young woman, a wife, and a mother burdens their daughters with too much responsibility to handle. Early marriages, made by hiding behind social traditions and causing many lives to black out, remain a problem. For these reasons, we would like to submit a parliamentary examination of Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine the issues and measures necessary for the forced marriage of girls at an early age. 26/11/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] 9) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] Article 16/2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights rules that marriage can only be done with the freedom and fullness of those who intend to get married. So, according to the declaration, if one of the parties is not mature enough to make a conscious decision, it is agreed that the will of marriage cannot be free and complete. One of the seven basic UN contracts for human rights is that the International Convention on Avoiding All Genocidation Against Women shall not be considered legal for the child's engagement or marriage at an early age, nor will all necessary measures be taken, including the legal registration of marriage and the mandatory registration of marriage." It's called. In line with these, Article 124 of our civil code states: "Man or woman cannot get married unless they reach the age of seventeen." He has ruled the situation. However, the law also allows the judge to allow a man or woman who is 16 years of age in extraordinary circumstances and for a very important reason. With the Turkish Civil Law in effect, families who wanted to marry their children under the age of 18. In recent years, there has been an increase in these applications. According to TÜİK data, the number of families suing the court in 2012 to marry their daughter under the age of 18 has increased by 94.2% compared to 2011. Some NGOs also state that there is an increase in the number of informal marriages between girls and children, without completing their childhood, spiritual and physical development. Almost all of these marriages are coerced against the girl's will. Although many factors have played a role in this problem, starting with the right proportion between the prevalence of children's brides and the family's poverty, the fact that early marriages throughout Turkey are around 40 per cent and that girls are married at an age that cannot protect them should not be excluded from the fact that education rights are the biggest obstacle to their right to education. There is a need to take extensive and sustainable measures, including increasing social sensitivity in this regard, including legal regulations. Otherwise, the effects of this problem and the negatives it creates are inevitable. For the reasons mentioned above, we believe it would be appropriate for a parliamentary investigation to determine the issues and measures of preventing girls from being married at an early age and forced into marriage. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, we are starting talks on whether to open a gene question about Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci (11/47) for the recent economic and employment indicators of Turkey, acting Group Deputy Chairl Idris Baluken, on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Government? Here. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 72nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 9/3/2015. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the members of parliament who have been mentioned: İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of the group; İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu on behalf of the People's Party Group; İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Bitlis MP Vedat Demiröz on behalf of the Justice and Development Party; Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci on behalf of the government. Now, the first word is Mr. Sebahat Tuncel. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0058par0362	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I respectfully salute you all. Today, here, in fact, we're going to have a very important discussion about Turkey's economy. It's actually a matter of great interest to life itself. The economy isn't just about numbers, it's about the welfare of society, the future of society, but when I look at it, there's not a lot of interest in the General Assembly. I think it's a problem in terms of power and opposition. Dear friends, it's also important to express our general criticism of economic policy by our AKP governments; otherwise it's important to see in that person what the AKP government's economic policies have done to Turkey. One of the main problems of the Turkish economy is that the issue of what the economy really is is in this country is not very accurate. In fact, the AKP government is a very happy country, because our economy is very good, and they've said that they've done politics on the part of their twelve years of government to the President, to the ministers, to the president, to the ministers of the Turkish economy, to the number of times of the world economy that I know about; so if you need stability, you'll vote for us, so we're a very happy country, because our economy is very good. But when you look at the truth, is Turkey really doing so well in the economy? Yes, one was in very good condition, and a few are very happy in Turkey that we can call 10 per cent because a group in Turkey are satisfied with this economic policy because of the AKP government's policies for the bosses, who are actually close to the ruling party. But a large percentage, 80 percent, 90 per cent, are being crushed by these economic policies. You can see it much more clearly when you look at the level of workers, workers, workers, women, poor people in Turkey. When you look at the AKP government's budget for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in particular, we can make it very clear what we mean by that. In this country, we are faced with a mindset that makes poverty chronic, which presents it as a destiny, and it turns it into a destiny, especially through charity funds through poverty. In fact, that's the general policy of capitalist modernist countries. The AKP, after all, is a representative of capitalist modernist forces in Turkey, a representative of neoliberal policies in Turkey. So he's looking at privatisation policies, labor policies, women's employment, agriculture, all these policies, and looking at the economy in this country, he's only doing politics from here on hot money, just looking at whether things are turning around. The president's approach to running this country like a company in the last few days is, in fact, an indication of how AKP power operates this country, and it's very striking. In fact, with its approach to managing this country like a company, we are in a approach that transforms Turkey's ecological field, converts all kinds of processes into Ranta, makes our lives miserable under the name of urban transformations, makes the poor more poor, makes the rich richer, leads the poor to a chasm between the rich and the poor in this country. And there's no accountability. This is one of our most fundamental criticisms -- when you look at all the economic investments or all the transactions made by the AKP government in this country, it doesn't answer to this Parliament, it doesn't answer to the public; there's no accountability in this country. It's a very serious problem, actually, when you look at the central government policies from local governments. If corruption is being discussed in this country, if theft is being discussed, money laundering is being discussed, the AKP government and its personal name are involved, there is a problem here. So, what you call economics isn't just a question of money coming and going; it's the basic thing about not being transparent, it's the lack of control. The Minister of Economy is responsible. There is still no reckoning in this land, and no reckoning has been given to the people. For example, the money from the shoe boxes has not been accounted for. For example, there is still no account for theft in this country.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0059par0369	Isn't there an election in this country, Sebahat Hanım?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0058par0370	And because it's not given, people are looking at it with anxiety. Of course, it's traditional, it's small, it's big. It's from the top to the top, it's the President to the Prime Minister, it's the minister, it's even the smallest tradesman in the region. I've said it in a few places before, that being an uncle is a Turkish word because he does his uncle's work. This is what it means to be unconcerned, not to be transparent, to be out of control. Now, we're looking, if we're really in such a good economic position, why do people have serious problems? Let's say, when you look at economic employment in this country, there are serious problems in employment, especially women's employment. If you even look at the 2013 data, there are 7 million,820,000 women employed in this country, 2.1 million of which are actually unsecured, actually working in unregistered areas. Again, you see, in the Global Gender Inequality Report of the World Economic Forum, Turkey has fallen to the 125th ranking of 142 countries in Europe and Central Asia. While these inequalitys are expressed, in fact, women's participation in employment, their participation in economic life, are the issues that have been evaluated in this sense. Dear MPs, it is important for Turkey that the Minister of Economy answer here today and on behalf of the government. Because the economy has a direct, direct connection to democracy. There are not that many gaps between the poor and the rich in democratic countries. In democratic countries, there are no such gaps in human rights as well as education, housing, health care. Again, in democratic countries, we're dealing with an auditable economy. So you have to answer for all of this. Look, we've got May 1st. We'll discuss it again. Isn't it a problem that the working class is brought in, that the unions are brought in, that the workers in this country can't get the workers' rights, that the workers can't even strike? Look, the workers can't strike in this country. He's making a strike decision. The government is delaying the strike with the signature of ministers, even though there are no ministers immediately. How is this economy, which opposes this economy, that we are oppressed by it, that we can't repay our efforts, that we can't organize? We're dealing with a system that slows down even the voices of those who say. That's why there's no controlability. Who's gonna supervise it? He'll supervise the working class. Now, if you bosses make all the decisions you say, the working class here, of course, will object, of course, they will rebel, they will expand this struggle. Again, dear friends, you've been looking at it recently, in the period of AKP power, you know, the rise in the temperature of the dollar when the economy is so good, the level of the dollar, the fact that the problem is still unresolved, despite all political interference, shows how deep the economic crisis in Turkey is. Now go, little shopkeeper, you'll see the situation. Do you realize, in fact, that the economy you boasted so much about during the AKP's reign, that the tradesman was severely in straits, that you made everyone in this country owe almost 76 million to private companies or to the public? Citizens in this country have to get credit to survive. In this country, you owe them all so that you can send your children to school, to live in better conditions, or at least to live in better conditions, to buy a house. In fact, it's one of the fundamental things about capitalism that makes it depend on itself. It is one of our duties to carry out these policies against this, to really express our objections to the policies that the AKP has uncovered, and to answer for it. Again, dear friends, you take better care of the numbers than we do. Look, Mr. Minister, there are numbers ahead of him, the level of Turkey's development, the rise of inflation, the situation that occurred again in dollars, and we always remind you once again what it's done to the economy of Turkey, what it's done to Turkey, what it's done to the economy of Turkey so far through hot money. I myself had spoken on this platform, and if you remember then, we also cited Greece as an example, and we said: with the policies that AKP has implemented, we will always remain economically good, we will be stable, so let no one fear, that their policies are wrong, that their approach to society is wrong, that this is actually a serious problem, that the approach to hot money is not based on employment, it's not based on production, it's not just consumption, it's what we've been warning us now that it's going through consumption, it's going to come through hot money. The policies the AKP has implemented against both foreign policy and the economy today have led Turkey into the middle of a serious economic crisis, which is much deeper, much deeper than it seems, and you'll see that in the coming times. The AKP government is trying to take measures from its own things, its prime minister, but the public now knows the truth. So the Turkish economy is not that good, and it's much more fragile because of its politics in the Middle East. People don't invest here anymore, they just invest in construction, they don't invest in jobs, they don't invest in production. Let's take a look at this, and there's more real estate assessments here from foreign countries, so even when you question the reason for all of this, we think that the Turkish economy is very fragile, that it can have a very deep crisis, that it needs to be taken care of, and that this measure should only be at a democratic, transparent point.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0060par0378	We don't know what the subject of the gene is, so it can be called a gene?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0058par0379	That's why the Ministry has to answer for it.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0061par0381	Mr. Tuncel, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0060par0382	What's your kid's problem about?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0062par0383	Don't you get it? He's been talking for ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0060par0384	I swear to God, if you've given them a gene, it's a shame.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0063par0385	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0062par0386	The economic crisis, the dollar; they're about the Minister of Economy, aren't they?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0063par0387	Members of parliament will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0064par0390	Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, I salute you all. I'd like to share our views on the genome our group has given about Mr. Nihat Zeybekci, Minister of Economics. Mr. Recep, of course, spoke of the economy, I don't think he understood them. I mean, unemployment figures, poverty indicators, dollar-kur-related relations, and all of this is very closely related to Turkey's economy, one-on-one. So who can claim that the economy is getting better today, after what's happened since New Year's? We have to go through this on behalf of the entire 77 million citizens of Turkey. Someone's got a hand in oil, a hand in honey, someone's in debt, let's not say someone, millions of them are in debt. This imbalance must, of course, be placed on the table, questioned, and has to be explained by the Minister and by the government. We have questions, too. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, it's important to acknowledge that Turkey is having a very difficult, economically difficult time; in the sense of the word, it's in a straitened state, it's in a state of crisis. In fact, there's a sheet that's being wrapped around it by those who run the economy. Now, what was the last thing public talk about? The sudden rise in dollars, you know, who fuels the fire of dollars? After all, the president's name is often mentioned here, and every time he makes a statement, a penny goes up like this. Everyone knows that the more the dollar goes up, the more the dollar goes up, the more the dollar goes down in the citizen's pocket, and that's very clear. And the missing number since Christmas is around 16% covered in devaluation. Of course, there's been a lot of discussion about the rise in this dollar and the rise in its tendency to continue; are there external speculators at its source, or are there conflicts, arguments, contradictions in the internal power that governs the country? All this is being questioned. But there's one thing that everyone's united on, valuable lawmakers, so the level that all of these foreign-source interventions can bring in the dollar is 2.40, but if it's come and gone to 2.63, the only difference is that the president's sole responsibility is the one person who directly intervenes in this area, questioning the Central Bank, questioning the central bank's independent or autonomous structure, extending its autonomous structure to the habit of treason. So you have to understand and question this once. In this country, making dollar rich people richer, raising the number of billionaires into the 40s, that's an unstable, unfair situation, short-term cornerers, unfair profiteers, profiteers, who are getting rich, so it shouldn't be too hard to determine who's getting rich, so the balance sheets are being explained in terms of what we're living in today, so there's an SEC, there's an IMK, there's an IMK, there's a system, there's a wheel going on, it shouldn't be hard to find them. So we know, of course, that in early March, Turkey's wealth list was announced once again, once again, large monopolyes, banks. But it's like he's being questioned and questioned that there are other people who collect dollars like this and win from this speculation. Now, at some point, you know the arguments with the Central Bank, which no one can put anywhere, which is the top of the state and the middle of the economy, the Central Bank. In the financial world, they were not meant to be. Then the Prime Minister went to New York, where he took some advice, apparently. Then the Economic Board met, explained, and the Central Bank made statements. In a sense, it's like it's all settled, but it's all settled, so what happened? Our national savings, our national resources, the cost to us is over 80 billion dollars. That's what the things say, so there's a variety of games in between, so you really need to account for that. So we just have to make a budget every year, these budget surpluses, things that exceed the budget, they have to be explained, but they're directly, primarily, the ones that are hit by all these games, speculations, pullouts that are directly hit by workers, pensioners, pensioners, fixed wagers, fixed income. Why? Because the living, transportation, housing of fixed incomes have folded their vital expenses directly. The other thing, the credit card debtors, is represented by millions. Today, each section, small-income, low-paid, hard-to-standing, turns the entire family budget with cards and debts, and the bankruptcy of this debtor, the small-businessman, has come and gone everywhere, and, of course, the lost worker, has now faced the loss of his previous collective contract rights. The results of the exchange increase, the increase in exchange rate, are relentlessly hitting millions of workers. Now, then, who really got rich, and who got rich wrongly? By asking that question, then we need to ask the question, "Who really is the traitor?" If, with the games of such external and internal forces, and their interference, someone is getting incredibly rich, perhaps the worst harm that can be done to the country, to the country, to our people is here. There has to be an explanation for this. Once again, when we were promised such an economy, we paid the debt to the IMF. There's always this saying, but there's a 33 percent increase in external debt reality in 14 months. Again, unemployment numbers are always explained, called double digits, so we know that young unemployment, like those who have lost hope, has reached 20 percent in this regard, and that's the kind of life that our people over 3 million people live in the unemployment circle. So, now, what's the direction? ▪ Is there any sign of this vulnerability, of these depressions, of improvement, of recovery? What's dependent on all its industry, its production, the financial world, is that this process is not going to stop, it's not going to stop, it's not going to stop, it's not going to stop. So, there's a collection of money, and there's a lot of money in our country that's going to flow in here, and therefore our gaps are going to get bigger. But the capital world will find its way, no doubt about it. Somehow, with the political power, the way he's been granted forgivenesss, exemptions, concessions, incentives, and all these legal arrangements that have come our way, these Council of Ministers decisions, planning, but in the eyes of our working class, being oppressed, being driven out of work, being reduced to poverty every day, more and more of our laborers. Everywhere, look, there's actually a huge resistance all over Turkey; there's a big, small, small, large, and every time you touch anyone in the country, there's a working man who has a sore and a moaner. There's a lot of reasons for that: privatisation policies that never give up. Again, we're looking at this law that's being discussed, the GDP privatisation is on the agenda. So, this is the privatisation of the plants. After the great cyclical apocalypse, a deal was reached at Ketenköy plants, but we know that -- where is the privatisation -- workers who have resisted in electricity business, in BEDAŞ, Istanbul, in Tirana, for months, have been victims of this privatisation by subcontractorial study, and they have been resisting for months. The privatisation header, the health and safety of workers, is an important head of resistance. Look, this government has not kept its promise to the people of Soma, to the men of Ermenek, to the Zonguldak miners, to any of them. In Soma, 2,830 workers lost their jobs. Some of it went back to work, got himself a job again, works hard. But 1,400 workers are now standing before Soma, Kınıkta, Manisa, İzmirin districts of Turkey. They have not been compensated, nor have they been given severance, nor have they been paid by the government, nor have they kept their word. The workers of Ermenek rose up again, saying, "The government has not kept its promises to us." In Zonguldak, HEMA workers landed 500 metres below the ground. In the same order, the workers, again, can only be granted such rights in Zonguldak, by resisting and invading the mines. Not just miners, look, food workers. And do you know who these food workers are, friends? Workers who work in the businesses of the richest of Turkey's factories. They were workers of the country, and the last time they got a deal was yesterday. The workers who work for Coach Holding's Court, all 60 of whom have been put to the door because they want unionisation, are standing in front of the factory. The world rich, Turkey's rich, richest family, they don't want to work in their own factory, in their own factory. In Kayseri, Boydak workers walked recently, in the furniture business, in the tree business, thousands of them, 4,000 workers, but from there, their resistance again was suppressed with the highest interference, and now they are working with a brutal contract for food. Same with the city workers. There were so many mentions yesterday that the university would be founded. SFC workers in Kastamon, also workers in the tree business. Look, when these are in order, they're numerous. Because of their dismissal, they all refuse to receive their wages, because of their union, they stand up for unfair hard work conditions. Why? Because this is the state of the country, it's a reflection on working life. In the economy, the capital class, the ruling class, the ruling class always wants workers to make sacrifices, the workers to show them. That's why all this is happening. Dear MPs, now, Minister Nihat Zeybekci is here. We especially want to turn around and ask what's said in this economy as a way of getting better, and look, right now, the lowest growth rates in the history of the republic, especially during AKP rule, are the lowest growth rates in 2002-2015. How do you explain these? Are they still behind the claim, particularly the 3 percent improvement in the Central Time Program? The economies, the ministers of the economy, can the government still suggest that this will happen? I mean, growing up, of course, the rich are in the middle, the dollar billionaires are in the middle, the numbers are going up, but from the other side, the injustice is just as bad. One per cent of the population, valued lawmakers, have 54 per cent of the income produced in Turkey. Does that ring a bell? One percent of the population, 54 percent of the income... that's the last place the income injustice, the revenue gap could be. So, how do you fix this? Will this government achieve a fair tax collection, a tax system? Look, how does the Central Bank -- now, at this time, they've had frequent meetings, meetings -- explain this to the government? Now, again, one thing to explain: now, the dollar is dry, and we've just mentioned it, it's gone from 1,82 to 2.63 in a year, it's shown this trend in a year. What kind of explanation does the government have here? No, no responsibility at all? Again, there was a way of dealing with this Central Bank and the President, and as I just said, it's settled, but what is the role of the recommendations proposed to the Prime Minister in this settlement? Explain these things, we want to know. There's a decrease in foreign trade volume. What is this reduction interpreted to? These unemployment rates increase regularly; they don't decrease, they don't decrease, they don't increase. In the same way, to what does the government attribute it? Again, yesterday it was in the papers, and the Prime Minister's office has spent a lot more than it's been paid for. How much is this? What's the expense? We want to know the reasons for this expense. Now, look, the manufacturer industry is getting smaller and smaller, and we want to hear digital data and evidence from Mr. Economy Minister on the currency debt, the income of private capital, both the debt and the foreign currency revenue. So, from this angle, is it forward or evil? You know, the capital world, all right, their accounts, but our workers want to know what's in it for us. Dear lawmakers, again, in terms of food policies, look, food prices are dropping all over the world, but somehow, for some reason, we're getting more and more. An outside addiction? Yeah, there's an outside addiction. So, what's the situation here in terms of this dollar increase reflected on this side? These need to be explained one by one. But this explanation is that we want the public to have a little bit more patience, a little more patience, and everything will be fine, not to inform the Assembly in a way that really makes us all nervous, think, think, take precautions, to bring realistic, understandable, logical explanations. Finally, valuable lawmakers, I would like to say that really, in terms of economic progress, external interventions, addiction, etcetera, and the point where Turkish lira is brought from this point of view, the indicators are not bright at all. But on the other hand, the government, the administration, is always in the pockets of the worker, always choking him. Sacrifices are always asked of workers, young people, women. That's the employment policy, that's the production policy, that's the capital market policy. So, if we have the savings of this country, millions... look, Turkey has 26 million working, producing working populations. The savings of these people, the values created by these people, the taxes paid by these people, the savings you declared as national capital, national wealth, let them not once again be pursued by the capital groups, and all this be directed to the people's vaccines, their livelihoods, their well-being; and if a measure is to be taken, let the law be brought for this. So, is there a study in the government, in the Ministry of Economics? We didn't see it, we didn't see it until today. We think it could be worse than this. Of course, the next election will also be a reckoning in this regard. I mean, it's not just the corruption, poverty, unemployment that we've always talked about, it's the public in the right direction... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as long as he's willing to do his own thing. The Ministry of Economics is a ministry that is also a target in this regard. I demand that our genome be considered and supported. I want to thank you on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0065par0416	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu will speak. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0066par0421	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of Mr. Nihat Zeybekci, Minister of Economics of the People's Democratic Party, and I stand before you to convey our views on the motion. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear MPs, today is March 18th. And I, in Çanakkale, remember the blood and soul of our fathers and our martyrs with grace and mercy. Dear lawmakers, our nation is tired of these heavy economic conditions that have been put in place and of corruption and thefts that have never been witnessed in our country. Today Turkey has more problems, deeper and more important problems than its interest debate, and Turkey's economy is on the back of a knife. If the areas of discussion were actually under the following headings, we might be able to talk about different issues here and make some suggestions to the government. What could these be? Inflation that's rising and threatening. The current is open, and more importantly, the quality of financing of this deficit, which is still not affordable enough, even in the fall. The $170 billion foreign obligation and the open position of the real sector, which should be translated within a year, amounting to $183 billion, and with the final debate, Turkey's rising credit risks, the rise of CDS risk premiums, should be the main issues to be discussed here today. The presence of these risks is also an obstacle to the free arrival of the money that we call Turkey's money, which burns our hands when we get it. Dear friends, actually in terms of hot money, Turkey has become a paradise between the ages of 2003 and 2007, and Turkey has been financed with hot money for many years. In such an environment, what should fall to government and economic governance and, of course, power? It was supposed to be trying not to create an additional risk, not to increase the risks, and to minimize the risks that were taken as well as the ones that I just counted, but let's see, the AKP administration, in doing the opposite, brought up the issues of the subsidiaries in the motion we discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, all of a sudden, the courtship didn't go up, it didn't go up. So when we look at it, about 2:30 on January 16th, it comes down to 2,62, maybe a penny. Even though the Central Bank is so serious in transferring money from its reserves, there is no serious measure for currencies, dear friends. The basket found 2.70, and the rate of interest in what we call the mortgage bond interest is 8.76, or five years of interest, some of which at some point found the increase of 9 percent. Dear friends, in this environment, the recent economic briefing was given in Fivetepe. And one of the interesting things about this briefing is that the graph that shows the exchange rate of dry activity, which you see here, the graph, the precious friends, is actually telling us in the presentation of the president of the Central Bank himself. What you see in this graph is what you see in a dark color, the value of Turkish liras against foreign currency, especially foreign currency, dollars, and others, the less colorful ones, are the currency of developing countries. Now, even though it's shown on this graph, especially in the last month and a half, the reason why there's been a fluctuation of currency is that by putting aside the interest pressure on the Central Bank, there are some ministers or leaders of the economic administration who are from the Party. They also mislead the public with stories, such as stories. In fact, the Fivepes presentation is also very clear evidence that this is not the case. What this means is that after 2013, the most important reason for the fluctuation in Turkish lira is that fragility is all about acceleration from internal elements, and it's because internal issues, or rather, economic and political stability in Turkey, are beginning to disappear. Stability in Turkey has been lost, dear friends. And that's the graph that's in this presentation. The dollar, which shows a 14 percent increase in interest pressure, is dry, and if it were just a parite movement, it would have increased by at least 5 percent, but that's just another indication that it's coming from the inside on its own. In 27 countries like us, the price of dollars has increased by 6 per cent on average. If we bring it to these days, 14 percent of us, as of now, are almost 20 percent closer. Actually, it's a secret devaluation when you look at it like that. In January, the talk of certain circles, the speech of certain individuals, and the discussion that started with almost the removal of business to treason, led to 20 percent of Turkish lira, dear friends. So, unfortunately, as some of our spiritual values can't be preserved as in the Solomon Shah Temple, so the value of Turkish lira can't be preserved today. What's going to happen in the next few days? There will be an increase in the invoice for imports, depending on dollars. And we're going to see an increase in inflation, depending on that. Of course, the price and price of the rise in this dollar will inevitably rise in the coming days. In turn, the loss of value of euros also leads to a reduction in export revenues. And that's another fact that we've come across. So in a very short period of time, we're dealing with a situation that stems from cost and price structure and affects the entire economy negatively. Dear lawmakers, while we're dealing with policy interest from the Central Bank or while someone tries to adjust it to the Central Bank, there's actually another interest rate set by the Central Bank that concerns everyone in the community and hurts everyone in the community. You know what that is? Credit card interest rates. Have you ever heard of those who adjusted the bank's credit card interest rates, O Central Bank, to take it down? I'm afraid you've never heard of such a thing. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0067par0433	Never heard of it.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0066par0434	Credit card interest is 2.02 per cent per month when we look at it as a transaction interest and a cash advance. When we bring it into the yearbook, you know, when you look at it simply, it's like 24 percent, but it's not, it's simple.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0068par0435	The compound...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0066par0436	When you look at compound interest, it finds 30 percent. On top of that, put the Resource Support Fund, put the bank insurance tax, load the burdens on the consumer's back, and see that it becomes inextricable from the credit card.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0069par0437	And someone's turning the corner, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0066par0438	Dear friends, the interest rate of the Central Bank -- I said -- 7.5%; that's the short-term interest rate, or the interest rate of the political interest rate, is what's called the interest rate of interest. Final inflation is 7.55 percent. E, they also have a non-inflation target -- you get 6.3 percent, but in the meantime, you put the credit card on the consumer's back with a rate of at least 3 times the policy interest and 4 times the rate of other actual inflation. Now, in the name of this, if you call it the mildest word of the word, it's called the thallan, it's called the impact, and it means that people who live in all parts of the low income community will be hurt. Dear friends, if we're really going to download an interest rate in this situation, or if we're going to do a certain amount of exiting to the Central Bank, a way out, I don't want to use this word -- excuse me -- that's very wrong, because the Central Bank has been independent during our administration. We didn't bring his independence to this state of central bank. That's when we brought independence so the Central Bank wouldn't face these events when they were independent in 2000, so that some greedy politicians or irresponsible people wouldn't adjust to the Central Bank. In this case, how will Turkey's other macroeconomic indicators be affected? Let's look at this. A few things. Is growth affected or reduced, or does inflation approach the goal? When we look at these questions, we can answer the first question, yes. But the second question, unfortunately, we have to say no. So growth is negatively affected, inflation doesn't fall. That's because, of course, we're dealing with the disorientation of currency courses. It's obvious that the issue that caused the inflation has increased enough. Imported entry prices are affecting other prices inside, and costs are increasing. Since these cost increases also affect the expected inflation, the triple price behavior is causing inflation to go higher. These debates lead to Turkey's fragility, valued lawmakers. What's this about breaking? Now, the issue that Turkey was cited as the first 20, the first 15, is far behind; Turkey is now counted among the fragile five. What are these countries? Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa, India and finally Turkey. The main feature of all of these countries is that they all have problems in their economy, they have problems, they face serious inflation increases, they have current deficits, and they are responsible for making them vulnerable to those countries. Dear friends, the firms are the key to this vulnerability. The corporate division, the private sector, is more affected by this vulnerability, because it's a matter of courtship increases. So when it's time to pay back your debts, you've got to make a prearrangement, which I've just said, from about 2,29-2,30 to 2,62, or even 2.65. There's no way they could afford such a high cost. Here, what are they doing? They reduce production, they bring in workers, which affects growth in a negative way. Dear friends, it's not the interest of TL -- look, I'm stressing this -- it's currency interest because the Turkish economy is a two-dollar economy. In an economy like this, you can never get anywhere by giving instructions to the Central Bank, downloading short-term interest; you have to point out in the other direction, but unfortunately, for that, there has to be a discreet, stable economic management. Short-term interest rates are going down fast, which also means that investments are going to have to increase financing costs, which means that there's going to be a lot of attention. Now, if this relationship were understood correctly, I think there would be others involved in the matter of treason. Dear friends, real interest in Turkey was at one time the world's highest real interest rate. Look, between 2002-2006, real interest was 14 percent, even 17 percent, and then from 2006-2010 to 5.5 percent, and then, after 2010, it got closer to zero, time to time, less. That's when the interest was 14 percent, dear friends, our growth approached 7.5 to 8 percent, found 4.7 percent when the interest was 5.5, and when the real interest was almost zero, it became 4.4. You know why I just said that? The reduction of interest in TL has also reduced growth because the interest in currency has increased, lowering interest in TL does not affect growth in a positive sense. It's a fact. Well, that's the kind of argument you've started, unfortunately, that's what's brought the country to this point. So let's ask the question, who is the interest lobby, who is this interest lobby? You know, everybody's talking about it. Normally, we'd have to call the groups that agree and collect from citizens at a low interest rate and then loan them back to the citizens with very high interest rates, and we'd normally call them the interest lobby, so that's what we'd have to say if the order were normal. In addition, the banks acquired $12.4 billion in interest revenues in January 2015, and in January, they again paid $4.7 billion in interest to deposit holders. So they give almost a third of what they get, so that's how cheap they are. In fact, what I'm about to say now is that for 12 years in this country, both government and, at work, the Central Bank has now created the real interest lobby by using a crisis-proposal low-interest policy. As a result of these policies, the real interest lobby has emerged. Dear friends, all these practices have also taken exports out of profit. We're having serious problems with exports right now. Why? Instead of transferring our resources to foreign trade issues and sectors, he's turned to luxury real estate, some public estates and investments. So the government made a mistake with funding planning. You have to be very careful with that, too. Where you'll be looking for the interest lobby here and there, we say turn around and look for these wrong policies. Inflation has risen to a very serious meaning, and in order to prevent inflation, there are actually a number of reforms that need to be done, both to increase growth and prevent inflation. We say that as the National Movement Party, the government has structural reforms to focus on. What are they? Pay attention to human capital, pay attention to the labour market, deal with technological innovations, and finally restore physical infrastructure to it. I mean, it's a really interesting and wrong goal to focus on interest policy when there's so much reform going on. Now, dear friends, I must say that the Central Bank has written six apology letters to this government or to the previous governments in the last nine years, and I'm sorry, I've done inflation targeting, but I can't get it right. Now, why don't you put aside the Federal Reserve's interest policy and focus on this issue. Why don't you integrate money and finance policies together and do something about it so you can get a letter written? Or do you like the letter too much? Now, the exchange entry and exit will be severely distressed and reduced in 2015. A 180 billion-dollar short-term foreign debt issue seems to be a landslide in front of us, a very serious problem. When we look at the debt figures, these numbers are huge. At the end of 2014, the treasury owed $612 billion, but more importantly, the private sector and its household debt is 1.5 trillion. Now, let me tell you something, that's where the change is. What did they do in 12 years? It used to be public debt, 80 per cent of the total debt was public, now the balance has changed, and they've put 70 per cent of it into the private sector. In other words, Turkey's debts were not reduced, they switched places with each other. Now, when I said that, when I went to the companies, I came up with a business issue, and it's kind of been discussed these days. Can a country be run as an anonymous company? Dear friends, I know you're all very curious about this. I'll tell you why the government can't be run like a company. In fact, the answer is very simple, there's a huge difference between the government and the company. It means that human communities living on a piece of land have a sense of sovereignty and are organized in law, so the concept of a state separate from the nation cannot be considered. That's why the government is already working with tax revenues, other revenues to increase social well-being, but the company has a boss. What's the purpose of the company? Increase the profits, distribute the profits. Is there such a thing in the state that I should increase profits and distribute profits? There's no such thing. Dear friends, I say that today the political government sees the government as property of its own father. Not the Turkish state, the business or the company or the holding company, let's stress that, there's no difference. There is a state tradition in Turkey since the Ottomans, and we need to take this state tradition seriously and bring it on. That's why companies should be run like corporations, and government should be run like government. The main thing is to run the government like the government, and to run the company like the company. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0070par0458	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0071par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the general staff of the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all. His gene is a gene for Mr. Zeybekci, a gene for the Ministry of Economics, and a gene for the government's economic policy and economic policy in general. In particular, there has been a recent debate on currency and interest, which Mr. President has been involved in, or rather, directed by the President, with the Central Bank on the side of the issue. Now, first of all, we need to say a few words about economic policies and economic developments that the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Minister or the President of the Central Bank is sitting on, to understand, and to explain how well these statements are sound. First of all, let's say we're going to say at the very end: things are not going well in the economy in Turkey, the economy is not going well. Now, I'm going to look at some data, and I'm going to use the official data of the TİKİK. I'm going to bottom out what I'm saying about this. Let's look at the growth. Now, it's said that the Turkish economy has broken the record of growth over the period of the AKP governments. We passed China. There's a miracle of Turkey in the international community. Is this really like this? See the official figures of the state: from 2003 to 2014 -- assuming that this year will grow around 3 percent -- the growth average of Turkey's economy is 4.8 per cent. From the formation of the Republic to 2002, Turkey's economy grew by an average of 5 per cent. There's wars involved, there's crises, there's coalition governments, there's left governments, there's right governments, there's unstable periods, there's coups; you divide them all, you divide the economy by 5%. During your administration, the average growth of the economy from 2003 to today is 4.8 per cent. So you couldn't even make the economy bigger than its historical average. There's a growth rate below the growth average in Republic history, Minister, the official figures of the state. Now you're going to say that this may be the historical average of Turkey, that it can grow below the historical averages, but what about other countries of the world? Look, when you compare Turkey with other countries of the world, compared to other countries of the world, you understand that there is a problem with Turkey's economy. Again, let's talk about official numbers: Turkey's economy grew from 2003 to 2007 -- 6.9 at a time when there was plenty of money in the world; this is a good growth, a growth above historical averages. At the same time, developing countries have grown 7.6 per cent, which means Turkey has closed this period with a growth under developing countries, but with a growth above historical averages. Then the money changed direction, there was a global crisis. As we look at how developed and developed the developing countries have grown, and how much Turkey has grown, after 2008, the growth of developing countries has fallen to 5.3, and Turkey's growth has fallen to 3.2. So, Minister, Turkey has been separated from developing countries. This means that Turkey has a structural problem with its economic policies regarding Turkey's policies in Turkey. Turkey has not grown as large as its historical average, but has grown less when compared with other developing countries. A third problem, our growth has dropped a lot in the last three years. So, look, in 2012 we expect 2,2; in 2013 we expect 4,1; this year we expect 2.7, when we get the average 2.9 percent. The economy of Turkey, with an average of 2.9 for these three years, has very little to do with the years of crisis. So, we really have a structural problem with the economy, so let's sit down and talk about it. So, beyond any kind of political polemity, beyond any ideological stance, we need to discuss this by putting the official numbers of the state ahead of us, so in the Turkish economy, this loss of growth, this loss of momentum, we need to discuss them, Mr. Minister. See, the natural result of this is unemployment. Now, let me give you a number, the official figures of the state again. The unemployment rate in Turkey has increased during the AKP period, Mr. Minister. Look, the 1980s, the Özalites, the years of stable governments, the average unemployment in Turkey is 8.3 percent. The 1990s, the years of instability, the years of permanent government, the years of failure, the average unemployment average in Turkey is 8.2; the official figures of TİK (TİK). So, what's your period? Double digits. As of late 2014, unemployment averaged 9.9; 10.9 in December. So, in your time, we did miracles of growth, we did miracles. You're saying that unemployment has increased, unemployment has increased in this period, over the 1980s and 1970s. And unemployment has been on the rise since the fall of 2012. See 2012 8,4; 2013 9; 2014 9.9; unemployment increases. Normal, it's normal to increase unemployment in Turkey. Why? Because growth rates are dropping. Turkey cannot carry 3% growth. A Western country, America or a mature economy, such as France, England, growths of two percent, three percent may be very good, but Turkey is a young country. Every year 500,000 people, 600,000 people enter the pool of employment. In addition to the current 3 million unemployed, you have to increase the economy by at least 5 per cent, even in order to give these people a job in the pool of employment. When the economy grows at least 5%, unemployment remains stable. But as the growth rate goes down, so does unemployment. And in the next term, in the middle term, Turkey has a growth path between 0 and 3. I don't expect a crisis, I don't expect a 5 to 6 percent reduction, but there's a stubborn low growth period in front of Turkey; 0 to 3. That's unemployment. This is actually more corrosive for governments, because when you get smaller for a year, and you grow up the next year, you can tell that, but the low growth that creates unemployment, doesn't produce enough jobs, increases unemployment is unacceptable for Turkey, is more corrosive for Turkey, for power. So we have a problem like this, and I'd like to bring that to your attention. Now, when you ask, what is the most structural problem in Turkey's economy? The first issue that comes up is no doubt the external explanation; the current account deficit and the external dependence of the economy. See, all the problems that we're talking about, all the problems that we're talking about, are problems from Turkey's growth model. This problem is not invented by the AKP, nor is it a problem created by AKP, but it is a problem that has been deepening and deepening since January 24th, when the 1980s had created a growth model that had been structured since the beginning of the AKP's rule. See, any country may have a current account deficit, but it's one of the few countries in Turkey that has to give out current transactions in order to grow. The mechanism is very simple: you need a break in order to grow, and that's when you enter. So, growing up in your growth model depends on imports, not exports. As long as you can import goods and services, you can grow. And since your exports aren't up to your imports, you're giving me an opening for current transactions. So, the current transactions are as big as you can afford and you can finance them. In this model of yours, it depends on you growing up in this growth model of yours, giving and financing the current transactions, and it goes on and on and on and on and on as the economy grows smaller and smaller. The current account deficit you have to give to grow one unit during your administration is constantly increasing. In the 1990s, Turkey had to give up current transactions in order to grow, but now it has to. But now it's a country that has to give more accountability to grow one unit. Therefore, Turkey cannot carry this. This is the structural problem of the Turkish economy, and this structural problem must be dealt with immediately. The financing of the Cari processing deficit is another problem, and that has not changed or even deepened in your time of power. Look, you're opening up current transactions to grow, and you're financing the current transaction deficit with hot money or loan creative pens. See, the latest figure, as of January 2015, is annually compound cumulative $42.8 billion. So the economy of Turkey has shorted $42 billion from this January to January. Well, when we looked at how he financed this gap, he only funded $6.1 billion from pens that don't lend money and pens that don't have hot money. So, direct funding with foreign capital investments, 4 billion of that is already real estate. So, imagine that you're short 42 billion dollars of current transactions, and you're only financing 14 percent of that from sources that don't create debt or have no hot money. This model is unsustainable, this model needs to be changed at once, and it needs to be dealt with radically, and we need to discuss it and talk about it. Now, look, the natural consequence of this model, this economic structure, is debt. Now, my friend, Mr. Secretary or AKP spokesman, will come and say that we have paid our debts to the IMF. We owed $22 billion, now we've cleared the debt. We've become the country that lends money to the IMF. Now, look, friends, if you're giving a trade deficit, someone has to finance this current transaction deficit. This gap has not been financed by the public since 2001. Public debt stocks are dropping to national income. When you look at it from this angle, you seem to have met the Maastricht criteria, but the total debt of the economy is growing because you're giving up current transactions. And who's loading it? The private sector is being loaded. See, the private sector only owed $43 billion in debt in 2002, so every government that came from the republic to 2002, $43 billion in stock in the private sector, has now increased to $278 billion in your time, at least five times, at least six times. (CHEERING) That's normal. Think of it as a balloon, you squeeze one side of the economy, you squeeze the public sector, the public doesn't borrow money, but the economy continues to create debt, so the other side of the balloon swells. Who's the other side of the ball? Private sector. (CHP cheers) Now you're going to say, "What do we care about private sector debt?" We take care of the public.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0072par0478	Unfortunately, unfortunately, they call us what about the private sector debt.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0071par0479	There's no such thing, you wake up in the morning like in 2001, when private sector debt suddenly becomes public debt. So you can't ignore it. The total debt of the Turkish economy grows in this model's hand, increasing the fragility of the economy. Look, Mr. Secretary, we need to talk about this. The amount of debt we have to pay in Turkey in the next year is 166.1 billion dollars. So you're going to be due for the 166 billion dollars of debt we've made in the past year from now to next year; 42 billion, 43 billion, you're going to be short on current transactions, 210 billion dollars. You'll have to find that in a framework where international markets and lendable funds are narrowed down. If we were having this conversation three years ago, I could tell you that loanable funds in the world are $3 trillion. Turkey can withdraw $200 billion from here very easily, but the money is changing direction, the money is moving back to safe ports. Thus, lendable funds have fallen under a trillion dollars. I mean, it's an economic model that has to provide a growing financing from a shrinking cake. We'll look at the interest debates from here, see how meaningful these arguments are. Look, another data exchange position gap. In 2001, the financial sector's foreign currency deficits were $20 billion, and the entire banking system sank with this $20 billion foreign currency deficit, because it was more vulnerable to the lottery. Then the BDDK was established and the financial sector's foreign currency deficits could be monitored, reset or kept at risk, but we weren't interested in the real sector. The exchange position deficit of all real sector companies in Turkey is 183 billion dollars, directly employed, produced, from the largest to the smallest. We were caught in a financial crisis with a $20 billion deficit in the banking sector of foreign currency. 183 billion dollars today. When you came to power, it was $6.5 billion, now $183 billion, and this sector is dry, which makes the real sector fragile. Look, let's say that in the last three months, with debates or global developments, national money has lost 10%; let's say 12 percent but 10%. The loss of ten percent value caused in the real sector is $18 billion, due to a lack of currency. I mean, no one has the right to put this in the Turkish real sector. So we're going to look at all these debates about interest from this economic framework. Let's put aside our ideological positions, political positions. This country belongs to all of us. If we want this country to produce more and more -- thinking about dealing with this model -- we need to say something on these platforms, more than all these palliative arguments, we need to guide these platforms, and if mistakes are made, we need to accept them with open heart, we need to make self-criticism. As opposition party MPs, we are prepared to offer our contribution in all this self-criticism, and we are prepared to do so as constructive opposition. See, interest is the only tool that sweeps all the risk out of the market. When you look at interest in a country, you see all the risks of that country; you see the political risks, you see the social risks, you see the economic risks. No one who tries to prevent interest from being created within the supply and demand conditions of the market can keep the interest there as palliatively. The interest rates are high in Turkey. Turkey offers high real interest. Those who advocate high interest in Turkey or do not want interest rates to go down are traitors. The Central Bank is trying to adjust interest rates according to the supply and demand requirements in the market, according to the monetary policy. The Central Bank is in a very difficult situation right now. On the one hand, the pressure of political power, the needs of the market. Therefore, putting pressure on the market's interest based on supply and demand conditions is causing interest rates to rise in person. Now, look, trying to create pressure to bring down the interest rates of the Central Bank to the independence of the Central Bank is causing interest rates to rise in the secondary market after a while.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0073par0485	It also means the traitor.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0071par0486	Now, it's important to ask: Who will be the traitor if the central bank is going to raise market interest with the pressure they've made? Who's the traitor? If interest rates go up, Mr. Minister, if it's treason or keeping interest rates high, won't they look back at themselves because of the pressure they've made to raise interest rates in the secondary market? How do they explain that? (Applause from CHP rows) Palaative interference in the balance of the economy causes malfunctions elsewhere in the economy? Look, woo... let's give you another balloon example: when you squeeze one side, the other side explodes. The national money has lost 13 per cent since January 22nd. Now, you will say that the exchange is dry...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0074par0489	Tell me about the world economy. What's going on? What's the dollar doing? How does America grow?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0075par0490	The rest of the money?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0071par0491	That's the problem with dollars, not other money. Look, Turkish lira lost 5.2 per cent against euro. Basket at 8%. It's not just about... it's not about the parite effect. Let me give you an example: the dollar has lost 12.3 per cent since New Year's in Turkey. The money for developing countries has lost 9%. Now, why is Turkey's money losing 12.3% when developing countries -- which is very fragile -- lose 9% against dollars? This means you have a structural problem with Turkey. This means that Turkey has a problem with Turkey in a different way than in other developing countries. This is all about arguments here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0076par0495	Name your Norwegian crown, the highest thing in the world. Look at the world economy.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0071par0496	So, Mr. Secretary, you are a minister at the helm of the economy, and you are obliged to defend the economic rights of the real sector in Turkey, of all citizens in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, it is your primary duty to relieve the economy of such interference. I suggest you put aside these arguments and be more reasonable about this matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit02spe0077par0501	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0077par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction (11/47) of Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci will be on the agenda. The government is here. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Vedat Demiröz. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0078par0006	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I celebrate the 100th anniversary of our victory at Çanakkale, the heroic epic of our nation who is not afraid to give his life for independence, the pioneer of the resurrection and history scene, the 100th anniversary of our country, and I remember with mercy and gratitude all our martyrs who know their lives as saints. I declare that we will continue to work with all our efforts in power and opposition to bring this beautiful home they entrusted to us to a more prosperous level. Dear lawmakers, we are gathered today to decide whether or not to raise the question of our Minister of Economy, Mr. Nihat Zeybekci. First of all, I salute you all, and I'd like to share with you the current developments in the Turkish economy. Of course, if this was an institution that had been very important in the past years and talked for days after it was given its geneor, it would have been a downsized government, but unfortunately, today, we're being handed over a motion to the five ministers and the Council of Ministers in a row, and unfortunately, only our friends, who submitted the motion, are currently among us...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0079par0009	Look at your lines, look at your government lines!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0078par0010	The importance of that is...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0080par0011	Where's the government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0078par0012	So, please, this establishment is a really important institution, and we need to be careful with that.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0081par0013	It's obvious how serious you are! Where's the government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0080par0014	Where's the government? There's no minister there!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0081par0015	How many people live in the AK PARTY Group? There aren't 20. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0082par0016	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0083par0017	Yes, valuable lawmakers, as you all know, there has been an economicly rapid transformation process in Turkey since 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0081par0018	You know best where our friends are! They are in the fields of Nevroz.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0082par0019	Mr. Baluken, please, let's not quibble. Please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0083par0020	As a result of this transformation and recovery in the economy, we have had an average five percent growth rate since 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0081par0021	He's consciously present, and then he talks like this.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0083par0022	After the global crisis in 2008, we left six years behind. For six years, all the economic players have worked hard to restore the stability environment and to get back on track economically, but we see that the desired stability in the global economy is still unreachable. There's still a search in the European Union, especially our biggest business partner. In 2010, Turkey reached the highest-growing country in Europe, growing by 8.8 per cent in 2011. In addition, we have reached an extremely high growth rate, such as 5.6 in the last 20 quarters, and that is an indication of how quickly Turkey has managed to emerge from the effects of the global crisis, compared with developing and developing countries. In 2013, with a 4.1 growth rate, we became the second fastest growing economy among members of the European Union, following Latvia. In 2014, when many economies around the world faced the risk of deflation and growth was extremely low, Turkey's economy achieved 3.3 growth. Our Ministry of Economics has great efforts to keep the contribution of net exports positive for growth. When we look at Brazil, Russia, India, China and the South African bloc, which include developing economies, we see that countries outside India have been watching weak growth recently. We are especially going through a conjunctural in Brazil, where growth has lost momentum in China, and there are problems in growing against high inflation. On the other hand, there's a significant improvement in critical indicators in the United States economy that are being monitored outside inflation. In this regard, we are at a critical time in the process of increasing interest in the FED, and the situation affects all developing economies. On the other hand, political tensions between Russia and Ukraine, political instability in our border countries, stand in our way as a negative influence on the Turkish economy. Our goal is to solve the structural problems of Turkey's economy and give our future young people a more viable Turkey. In this direction, we have opened universities to every province to improve the quality of our young population, which we call our capital. In 2003, the number of universities was 70, and in 2014, they increased to 181. In addition to increasing the number of universities, we have focused on the RD to become more qualified and contribute to our private sector. RD spending, $1.84 billion in 2002, rose to 14.8 billion in 2013. Thus, in 2002, the GDP for GDP, which was 0.54 per cent, increased to 0.95 in 2013. Our goal is to get RD spending to a 3% GDP in 2023. Our Ministry of Economics is giving us the support we need to achieve this goal. For example, investments in the production of products supported by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, as a result of R&D projects, our Ministry of Economics provides huge support for such projects, taking priority investments. On this occasion, I would like to stress that all of our government's institutions are working in cooperation and harmony with the common goals. Part of the important work of our Ministry of Economics is encouraged by investments. From 2003 to today, 41,200 investment incentives for a fixed investment of $480 billion and employment of approximately 1.6 million have been issued in our country. With a positive contribution to these incentives, employment levels have reached record levels in our country. As of 2014, our total employment was based on 26 million people. Precious lawmakers, of course, Turkey's only success in the world's economy of such difficult conditions is not growth. Looking at foreign trade figures, we see once again that there is no longer the former Turkey. In 2014, our exports reached 157.7 billion dollars with a 4-percent increase, breaking the record for all time. These numbers don't include exports and passenger sales from free zones. When we include them, we get about $172 billion in exports. Now, that's why we've been given our Minister's genotype, why do export numbers reach so many billion dollars? In addition, our promotional activities abroad are being carried out by sectoral advertising groups formed within our export troops for the purpose of promoting certain sectors and products that are important to our exports abroad. One of our major sectors in service exports is foreign contractors and advisors. So far, our contractors have acquired 7.615 projects worth $295 billion in 104 countries abroad. The price of the project increased from $2.6 billion in 2002 to $32.5 billion in 2013. The foreign projects, which were adopted in 2014, were $17.4 billion. In the logistics sector, new transport routes are being detected that will allow our exporters to reach target markets at affordable costs and speedily, and the problems of the sector are being quickly resolved. Logistics have made efforts to establish new export routes from the Gulf to the Gulf from Georgia to Russia, from the Caspian Sea to Central Asia to our very important export market, Iraq, and Iran to continue our transport to Iraq uninterrupted, where the authorities of Iraq and Iran have been made initiatives in order to ensure that our exports to Iraq and Iraq continue uninterrupted. As in 2014, the main goal for bilateral relations -- except for the traditional European Union market, where the market is largely satisfied in terms of demand -- is to expand our economic and commercial impact in the broad region, including the Central Asia, the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, North and Central Africa, as well as our cultural geography. One of the important applications for our 2023 goals is our investment incentive system, which we implemented with a new understanding in June 2012. I can safely say that over the past two years, we've achieved significant investments through our incentive system. We're now depriving our country of low-tech and passive investments based solely on montage. In this understanding, our incentive system is an important instrument that we use to ensure the structural transformation our industry needs and to free our industry from its externally dependent production stalemate. A total of $14.6 billion foreign direct investments in our country up to 2002 have been directly invested in foreign investments from 2003 to 2003, and nearly 70 per cent of foreign direct investments in 2014 are from the European Union. I see a point in reminding you here. The whole point of our ministry is to create a more appropriate investment environment for our investors. As so far as our private sector and work on this goal will continue to be carried out in the coming period, with great determination and precision. When we look at the import front in 2014, we see happy results. By reducing our imports by 3.7 per cent, we've managed to reduce our foreign trade deficit by 15 per cent. We also think that with the rapid implementation of our Prime Minister's priority transformation programmes, the balancing that we live in foreign trade will be safer and more secure. Dear MPs, under the leadership of our Minister Nihat Zeybekci, the Ministry of Economy continues to govern our country's economy in a solid way, despite both global and regional problems. I wish all of you with respect that his precious efforts to bring our country to more prosperous levels will continue to succeed in the coming period.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0084par0036	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0085par0037	Mr. President, the speaker on the stand accused our group of insensitivity in the process of preparing the gene, so there was an open taunt.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0084par0038	I'll give you my word, only the Minister will speak, and then I'll get the objections. Okay?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0085par0039	Sure.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0084par0040	Minister of Economy Nihat Zeybekci will speak on behalf of the government. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0086par0043	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I stand before you on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the Ministry of Economics, on behalf of my Ministry. On this occasion, I salute you. Of course, at the beginning of my words, today, under a very large umbrella of the people of this land -- first of all -- the people of the same faith, the people of the same land, the people of the same flag, all my brothers and sisters, I will not pass through here until I remember that epic written in Çanakkale. I remember all our martyrs in Çanakkale, all over the world with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. But I want to underline the need for our history to be very well known while we're reminiscing about our martyrs. At first, all members of our President, Prime Minister and Government, and before that, the prime ministers and presidents of the Republic of Turkey have always said that the alleged Armenian claim should be left to historians who know and experts. Other than that, the nation has a stance to this day for those who try to put this work on a label that will never, ever be known as a political title to this nation. First of all, I'd like to thank you very much for this question. I see this as a very important opportunity for our democracy to take information, information, discussion, mutual consultation, and negotiate, one of the most important elements of our democracy. The most important place to discuss an area that has recently been speculated, manipulated, somehow abused is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Here, to do so, nothing, without challenging political debates, or at a minimum level, should be able to discuss this with political issues, or a minister of the government or members of the government should come here and give information about any issues that concern the opposition or members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. For him, I find it extremely important. It shouldn't just wait for the gene, I think it should continue with the development. Our government's minister or ministers should inform each and every one of our opposition parties or all the groups in the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the issues in their time of health. Information is important. If we get healthy information, if we're given healthy information, we'll have the right opinion. And when we have the right opinion, we make good decisions, we make healthy decisions, and we have the country that benefits the most, and we have the nation. Before I begin, I'd like to make an assessment of 2014. If I try to respond one by one to the opinions of the valued group representatives who were quoted here before me, this time here is certainly not enough, it is necessary to give responses to the hours, or to discuss the issue. In 2014, Turkey wrote a commercial epic, despite all the negativity around it. When we look north of us, the Russian and Ukrainian crisis -- I'm talking about Russia's foreign imports dropped over 40 percent, Russia's foreign purchases dropped 20 percent, not 2015 -- not just 20 percent in the year's, the negatives around Georgia in the Caucasus, the uncertainty about the removal of sanctions in Iran, the invasion of 40 per cent of Iraq's land by a terrorist organisation, the increase in the foreign trade of Egypt, the increase of the foreign trade of 10 per cent in the Caucasus, the increase of our foreign trade in Turkey, the increase of one part of our foreign trade in Turkey, and the total of one in Turkey's four per cent in total, despite the fact that only one percent of our foreign trade in the United States. Why 5%? Look, we need to... we need to use healthy figures on Turkey's exports from now on when I give you this information. Our exports have been announced by our government, or by the authorities concerned, as 157.7 billion, but what we don't take into account is that we have $5.2 billion in exports from free zones. It's not included in our export numbers, so it's never been done. Also, in the official record, there's an $8.8 billion suitcase transaction in the government's hands, with an invoice and a cash intake, and when we add these things in a row, the export of Turkey is $171.6 billion. As for our imports, over 242 billion dollars, our imports are also 241 billion dollars when we put imports in free zones as a plus, and then when we add our imports with minimum prices, we add about $4 billion to the optimal increase of our imports. Thus, Turkey's proportion of foreign trade deficits or imports of exports has reached a historic peak, reaching 71-72 per cent. Dear friends, after our foreign trade deficit, one of Turkey's most important -- as the speakers have just pointed out -- one of its weaknesses is clear. So while this current deficit is increasing Turkey's exports to Turkey's current deficit... yes, we can't accept that Turkey should never, ever agree to a growth under 5 percent, but when we look at the world and especially look around us, to confirm that you're saying about 2.8 percent -- the growth rate of growth that will come at the end of this year is around 2.8 percent. Without ever underestimating the future number of growths, Turkey highlighted a success that should be written in economic books, economic theories this year. This is that he managed to narrow down his current deficit when he increased exports, when he grew up, before his investment and interim imports went down. According to the past 2013, he narrowed down his current deficit at 30 per cent, and achieved a $19.3 billion recovery in the current deficit. The $19.3 billion deficit narrowing is one of the most important indicators of a healthy, national growth. Why? The $12 billion of this comes directly from our net export growth, and about $7 billion from our unnecessary imports. Thus, Turkey has also achieved a very important success in this sense and has achieved success. Dear friends, one of Turkey's most important achievements is service export. Turkey achieved $50.5 billion in service exports in 2014. Service exports don't usually appear in our pencils, but our service exports are a half-export income. Our service exports are $50.5 billion, and our service imports are about half of it, which is exactly what we're paying $25 billion more. On the other hand, despite all the negativity around us, despite the negativity of geography, Turkey caught a historic summit in 2013 in construction services. Turkey has signed under the $34 billion annual contractor services. In 2014, despite all of this, Turkey signed under over $23 billion of construction services. As Turkey, we aim to sign under the contract of a $100 billion-a-year contractor service in 2023. Turkey also received its desired results in tourism in 2014. 41 million tourists have arrived in Turkey. It has been the world's sixth largest tourist destinies, Europe's 1st tourist destinies. Dear friends, this positive development of the 2014 current statement continues at a record level in 2015. In January, our current deficit is at $2 billion. According to January 2014, our current deficit in 2015 has improved by 60 percent. So in 2015, the current rate will be at 5.7 per cent in 2014 and will reach 4 per cent in 2015. That's because oil prices are going down, and raw materials are going down parallelly, in line with it, whatever its name is, there's a result. So, right now, we're getting a very important result of the current explanation. Dear friends, starting in 2002 -- and I'm not saying that because we came to power in 2002 -- but at kilogram export prices, Turkey is taking important steps to stop being a passive economy. What's that? Turkey, so far... so far, I'm saying God bless everyone who serves this country and the nation. Whosoever has laid a stone upon a stone in this land, God be praised. But let's take the picture that we've come to this period: In a world where raw matter and energy will come and other people control the world of raw matter and energy, in a world where others control their consumption habits, in a world that has been determined by others, in a world where others have established distribution channels and consumption channels, in a world that others have controlled and controlled. But now, if we say target 2023/, the target is 500 billion dollars in exports, $150 billion in service revenues, $100 billion in contracting contractors, Turkey now has to move on to a world where it determines its own practices of consumption and controls the consumption channels. In this way, Turkey reaches its 2023 targets, and in this way, our work continues. Turkey's 1 kilogram export in 2009 -- I'm talking about 2009 -- was 1,16 cents/kilograms, while Turkey's 1 kilogram export came to $1.66 as of today. He's got imports. And our imports are $1.77, the products we import. Target: Turkey must bring this to the level of $2.25-2.50 as soon as possible. I'd like to share with you another important development: TLS's foreign trade was at half a thousandths, half per cent in 2002, 6 per thousandth in 2002, now it's 5 per cent in Turkey's foreign trade, so we're now able to do our $19.1 billion foreign trade with TLS. And that's what Turkey has been trying to create in the past few days, even though it really doesn't deserve it. Dear friends, you know, someone about the courtship is trying to take the opportunity out of a fluctuation that is not Turkish or Turkish economy. There's a fluctuation in the world. It was inevitable that the world's economies would be affected by the fact that from the end of 2013 to 2013, the U.S. Central Bank would stop its liquidity from $750 billion to $4 trillion in dollars, and thus would increase interest rates, creating an interest increase. But on that day, we said, "Yes, the world will be affected, and Turkey will be affected, but Turkey is a country that does 40 per cent of its foreign trade with the European Union." It is the only country in the world that has a Customs Union Agreement with the European Union. What did the President of the Central Bank of the European Union say in the same time period? We said, "Yes, Turkey will be affected by this decision by the United States, but it will be more affected by the European Union's decisions, and therefore, Turkey does not need to worry about this thing about the future and go to high interest costs." And then what happened? History proved us right. At the last time we arrived, the Central Bank of the European Union began to put money into the market of 60 billion euros each month. By the spring of 2016, 1.6 trillion euros said it would go into the market, and while doing so, he also did this: he reduced the interest to zero, even to negative. By the way, what did others do? Other countries followed. It was a country that did the opposite, Brazil. Brazil has increased its interest in this period to address this problem with the courtship, but it has not been able to prevent it, and from June to today, 40 per cent of Brazilian money has lost its value. So, what happened? Dear friends, I would like to share this with you very quickly. As I said at the beginning, it's not something to talk about very briefly. Look, in exchange for dollars and dollars, the dollar -- as of this moment -- has lost 27.2 percent of the euro from June 2014 to today, and has lost 23.7% of the dollar against the dollar. Another thing is: there's a group of six currency units called the dollar index. Let's call them the most independent currency in the world. Euros, yen, Swiss francs, pounds, Canadian dollars and Swedish crowns. Do you know what these six currency did in exchange for dollars from June 2014 to today? They've lost 24 percent of their value. Turkish lira lost value at 23 per cent during the same period, while the world's most independent and most powerful currency lost value at 24 per cent. There's an interesting graph of the days when the speakers were talking about, when our President wasn't talking. It says there, especially from the beginning of February. When the president spoke, he went up on the floor; he kept silent on the floor; and so on; and so on; and so on; and so on; and he spoke on the ground, and he went up. At the same time, on the same days, at the same time, we did a study, we said... right there, two in a row. In the same days, we also looked at him and said, "What did the euro do? One-to-one, 95% of the same days, the same time the euro did the same thing. If we turned around, the dollar index would have done the same thing. I said on that day: OK, you may have a claim like that about TLS, but what are we going to do about this fluctuation of euros? Is the euro going down and down, or is the euro starting to follow our President now? We'd appreciate that. Dear friends, look, when we look at all the values of Turkey right now, when we look at all the values of the economy, when we look at the equity of banks, we're better than 25 percent of the banks of 28 countries in the European Union. When we look at the budget deficit, we are better than 22 percent of the European Union member states. One of them has a teaching that they say that they are of course, or that those who follow them, you are not naive enough to invest in production, to gain its income at the end of the production, or to invest in interest and wait for its appointed time. You're going to look at the rate of those wavelengths between these fluctuations. Someone called it. Now they're trying to play a game in Turkey. There is no doubt about the future of Turkey's political stability; there is no doubt about the future of Turkey's economic stability. What are they supposed to do? If there is a risk, there is a provision. They have a motto. And here is the provision, of course, not to confuse it with Allah's lawful provision, but it's a word they say about their speculation. There is no risk in Turkey, and there is no sustenance for them. Let everyone know that.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0087par0067	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0086par0068	Dear friends, the heart would love to be able to provide you with a much healthier, long, long history of information on this matter. Again, I salute the High Council. God be with you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0087par0071	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0088par0073	Mr. President, before Mr. Secretary, I had a request for a statement due to bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0087par0074	I know. For what reason?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0088par0075	Mr. Orator, during his speech, he accused our group of running a geneorical establishment in a nonsensical manner.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0087par0076	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0088par0079	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Talking on this bench is a serious job; you have to think about it 10 times and use the sentence once, because it's binding after the word comes out. In particular, Mr. Bitlis, we leave it to our people to be so detached from his own people, from his own truth. You know best where the HDP MPs are. This week is the week of Nevroz, and all of our deputies are celebrating the enthusiasm of Neroz, where they are celebrating with their own people at high prices. Of course, you have to hold the mirror to yourself before you talk; if you had kept the mirror to yourself, you would have seen that at the time of the geneorization talks, 25 members of the AK PARTI were sitting at the maximum, and 25 of the MPs were here when you spoke, and there was not a single minister at the time of the government, and that the AK PARTI Group was only here during the inspections. So your criticism of this geneor is an extremely inappropriate criticism. Because from the time we gave the gene, it was actually to bring it here by consultation with our group, which was also consistent with political courtesy. Our group was here last week, and on the first day of the week, the majority of our deputies were here again, but we, in particular, are complicating the election of the week of the neurosis with your seriousness. This week, there's a program for the People's Democratic Party, and another political party, I think, has a convention, a general council. So even in an environment like this, you don't feel the need to co-operate with political parties about running the parliamentary agenda. I'm saying that your approach, above all, does not apply to political courtesy. Besides, I made a promise to Mr. Secretary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Minister needs to correct a sentence. He described the common umbrella here in this country through faith. I think it's a big mistake that you didn't realize. The non-Muslims in this country, the people who have a different group of beliefs, are citizens of this country, under the same umbrella. You must correct that statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0089par0087	Mr. President, I just don't want you to misunderstand...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0090par0088	Here you go. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0089par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. It's one of the umbrellas that unites us, faith is one of the countries -- I mean, if I say it to correct it -- it's the flag, it's the only state, and it's faith. All of this is our wealth. If not, I am also a man who knows that there are Greeks in Çanakkale, and I know that there are Greeks in Çanakkale, and I do not make such a mistake. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0091par0095	Thank you. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on economics Minister Nihat Zeybekci will be taken into consideration. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0092par0101	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit03spe0091par0102	I'm going to vote for the motion to be raised and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who do not accept... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion for the gene is not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock. I'm taking a break from the merger until 00.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0091par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Al-Seconditional Law, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Order for Humanitance; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul's Proposal Çağişdeşdeşdeşimation on Peace and the Law on the Laws Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanment; We will Proposition to Bene on the Law on the Law on the Law; We shall Propose to Bene of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and the Peace and the Law on the Law on Peace of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; Wed on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human.; Wed.; We shall of Peace and the Law. of Peace and the Law on Human. of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace and the Law on Peace of Peace and the Law on Human. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and Kırıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 45 MPs; the Law Proposal and Budget Commission Report on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, as well as with Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman and Plan and Budget Commission Presidency. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the 10th Article was adopted in the last chapter of the proposal, which was considered the basic law, and we will now discuss the 11th article. There are three motions on the 11th article, and the two are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures, which are currently in session, 688 rows, 11. We provide and propose that the clause be changed below. Haydar Akar Bulent Kuşoğlu of Rahmi Love In the final sentence of Article 1 of the First Amendment of the Law on Responsibility of Some Taxes and Institutions No. 1606, dated 11-11/7/1972, added "to economic enterprises belonging to these institutions," which were included in the last sentence of Article 1 of the First Amendment of the Law, "and will be issued under the Law on Taxes of the Income Tax 13/6/2006/2006." Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the current 688 Orders Numbered Law Proposal We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Erol Dora Iron Steel Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0093par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0091par0055	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0094par0056	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0091par0057	Mr. Erkan Akçay, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0095par0059	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 11th Amendment. The four, eleven, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, and sixteenth articles of this law offer are regulations concerning the Red and Greena. Dear lawmakers, this is Kızılay, and I propose that after the green moon, we build AKP to build one of these provisions, because they will make AKP a bruise in the future. (CHP cheers) I mean, really, I mean it. Mr. Erdogan said: "We will run the country as a company." However, let me inform you: your company is working off the record, working under the stairs. This is an epiphany of unregistered and sub-stairs management mentality, and the idea of running the Red and Green under the stairs. No law, no transparency. So you're entitled to transfer $15 million to the Yerenai Foundation for 2015, and you're entitled to a non-tested grant. So it's a confession that I'm going to commit corruption here. No, we will not be corrupt. If you say so, you must not make these arrangements. So many tax exceptions, their exemptions, they also lead to unfair competition. What is unfairly competitive and unequal? There is also injustice and injustice among civil society organisations, associations that work for the benefit of the public. The Green Moon Foundation was founded, as if it were the Knights of the Temple of the Green Moon Foundation; no names, no rulers, no explanation. Why don't you explain? What's the need to build a foundation for green? They've got their own agenda, or they're supposed to be private, like a mason's box, and you're expecting to transfer $15 million a year to a government, a structure that you keep so private. Here are some exceptions to the VAT in the Kızılay, some exceptions to the institutional tax, the way they forgive the tax fines, the way they remove the ongoing lawsuits. Now, valuable lawmakers, if there's no audit, without an account book, there's bound to be corruption there. In a sense, these are institutions and organizations that are made up of public donations, people's money, people's resources, people's resources, and they need to serve the nation again. On the one hand, if you transfer the public source to this, you will first undermine the power of civil society. Now, valuable lawmakers, you are envisioning the immunity of the Kızılay Association from tax cuts under the IRS Act or the Tax Tax Act, excluding its activities according to Law 5624. Why are you predicting it? Shouldn't the public be the first example of doing their taxes? First, public, public and civil society organizations will set an example for the citizens, who will see these positive examples, and will carry out their own homework. And in every bag of law, it's a classic. One: exceptions and exemptions from the Public Contraction Act are being brought to the bank. In recent years, there have been some arrangements for the Red Sea, and particularly about the Yereza, and there have been also been some curious about the Green Moon, but it can't physically put the activities of Yerelai in front of the nation, despite such support, certain privileges, and privileges. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you to express our views in the following articles.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0096par0067	Thank you. Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak on the other motion.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0097par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 11th Amendment. I salute you all. In fact, we've expressed many times on this bench that the way that we make this law, the way that the bag makes the law, causes a lot of problems, and that it's a very serious problem after we've passed this law, this time when we've made new arrangements with the new bag of laws. Of course, this place is tasked with establishing laws that will express the future of 77 million people living in Turkey, make their lives easier, make their lives better. But the laws set out here are unfortunately based on adding new problems to the problems of society rather than solving them. Now, in fact, we're building a new foundation, which is expressed in these materials, especially, and we're doing new things on it. This isn't really about determining the needs of the AKP government... let's define the current needs, let's make a law on that. What is the framework of this, what are the rules, what are the demands? Instead of doing this, let's set up the institution first, then set up the budget, and then -- whatever -- let's impose it on society as a need. In terms of law enforcement practice, this is a serious problem. Really, when there's the Red Moon, when there's the Green Moon, do you need anything new, from what need? For example, the government must convince us that there are these, these needs. The community has a very intense demand for assistance, and every day these demands are being expressed, so we bring a new law against these demands. Instead, instead, in terms of its own ruling relations, how can we do anything about a institution where the president's daughter is president? A review of this by law... and then it leads to another argument. The need of society or someone's need? So do we make laws by society or by individual law? Because the AKP's people have done a lot of arguing, we see once again that there is no law, there is no Constitution, because they love it very much. Another dimension is taxing when you make this law. You have stated that it is for the benefit of the people. Are we making the same assessments for all the institutions that benefit the public? No, some of them are much more private. Because you give these things special authority. You're tax-free, you're actually providing public resources in some way to serve it. Maybe. We're not saying no. It'll be needed, you'll need it... it's really a need, it's requested by very large sections, it needs to be done immediately, but we're not dealing with that kind of situation here. Your secretary just told me. So what needs do you need to build this new organization? On what grounds are we going to do this? How's he gonna handle it? For example, no inspection. Well, do these really work for the cause or not? How do we check the fitness of this purpose? There is nothing in the matter. However, we are dealing with the unfair gain of this law and the further deepening of the legal, unfair system that is already available to society in this scope. From that point of view -- because there are a number of other articles in the same arrangement -- we're going to continue to express this arrangement on this platform, these things, our criticisms. Dear friends, we stand for everything that is truly in the best interest of society, not everything. But while we're doing this, let's decide what the benefits are, let's discuss them together, let's really come in here, let's set the needs together, let's make the law together. Now, you bring in a law, you impose it on civil society, you impose it on society, you impose it on political parties, and then you say it's in the public interest. We understand that you're concerned that if you can't be in power in the next thing alone with this bag of laws before the election, we'll get out of whatever we can get out of it. It's a legitimate concern because after the elections, you'll see that you won't be in power alone. The second thing is, whatever we can get out of the fire, whatever we can get out of it, in such an approach, but it's going to come back here in the next period, and it's going to be an argument again. Because every law you make, every law is gonna have serious problems. We, as the opposition, once again want to stress that this is causing serious problems, and especially that a non-control structure, free of supervision, free of transparency, will cause serious problems of its own, deepening injustice. ▪ Why are existing institutions not enough? How can we strengthen these? Instead of adding new institutions to existing institutions, it actually means nothing more than opening up a new land area, opening up new jobs, in its own way, and in its own way, bringing their own followers to their own. In that sense, we recommend that this clause be removed from the text of the law. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0098par0077	I will submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0099par0078	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0100par0079	No, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0098par0080	Is the decision enough or the roll call? III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0100par0083	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit04spe0098par0084	I'd like 20 people for roll call, please. Congressmans, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Hamzacebi who follows this rule well- please help us if 20 people stand up at once. Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Seçer, Mr. Candy, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Turtümen, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Light, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Özkes. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. Congressmans, this is my first and final fifteen-minute recess. All the time from now on, it's been five minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure The meeting on the 11th article of Law Proposal 688 was not enough in the roll call, before the vote of the 11th article of the Law Proposal of 688, held together with Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends and İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends' motions. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We're still negotiating the proposal. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures, which are currently in session, 688 rows, 11. We provide and propose that the clause be changed below. Ensar Öğün (Ardahan) and his friends In the final sentence of Article 1 of the First Amendment of the Law on Responsibility of Some Taxes and Institutions No. 1606, dated 11-11/7/1972, added "to economic enterprises belonging to these institutions," which were included in the last sentence of Article 1 of the First Amendment of the Law, "and will be issued under the Law on Taxes of the Income Tax 13/6/2006/2006." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0101par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0098par0021	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0102par0022	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0098par0023	Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0103par0026	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. This is the 11th article of the Law Proposal, 688 rows, which is about taxes, which is a provision for further clarity of an issue that is not really a problem. It's an arrangement due to the fact that there's a very comfortable law enforcement situation that can normally be solved with the Ministry of Finance and Reda. Dear friends, at this time, unfortunately, things have become a fashion. I'm afraid we're making a law on everything, on something that we need to set up with regulations, or on a matter that we need to deal with with with with with the Minister's approval. These are issues that need to be organized by the bureaucracy, arranged by the ministers, detailed by the ministers, all of which cannot be passed, but the bureaucracy is not taking any responsibility at this time, and the ministers are not taking responsibility. Let's make a law on this. The law on everything is being passed. So, in this period, unfortunately, we've been constantly dealing with the bag of laws in the Plan and Budget Commission or here. Most of these things were things that shouldn't have come as a law, things that shouldn't be arranged, things that we've done, unfortunately, and while they're being done, for example, with our friends at the Plan and Budget Commission thinking that they should go through this very quickly, they don't take the word, they don't usually argue about it, they leave it to us. We're just trying to shed some light on something with the information we've been getting from the bureaucracy. Most of the work that we've done in this period, unfortunately, has passed some of the laws that we've made, even before we've applied them, or even a month later, two months later, we've had laws that we've corrected five months later; we've had a period like this. But we can make better laws. Making the law... this isn't a factory, it's a fast law, it's a law, it's a law, it doesn't mean the House works well, it's a legislature. There's an understanding, with that understanding, unfortunately, that we make laws all the time. We have claims of violation of the Constitution, and these are not considered. Unfortunately, there's a similar situation in this bag. These are brought back here without much discussion or consideration. Again, an amendment from the Constitutional Court will be passed as a law again with the reverse of the sentence; it will most likely return from the Constitutional Court, so it should return normally. I'm afraid we've had some questions about the Constitutional Court. My dear friends, the bag we're interviewing right now is in question of the law, or of the fact that we've finished a bag of laws in two days in the Plan and Budget Commission, which is similar to what I just said. Mr. Akçay just said, for example, about this Greena, the Yeşilay Foundation, the foundation's foundation, and then there's the release of a court order in January, but we're holding it in a hurry to put $15 million into the Ministry of Health budget. So, who are the managers of this foundation? I don't know, I don't know. Look, a foundation that hasn't been established, hasn't been established, hasn't gone to life, we're transferring money to the institution by creating immunity in Law 5018, so let's not be audited. Actually, that sign there is wrong, and that's what I said yesterday. We're transferring money to an unregistered institution, the foundation, and we don't want it to be controlled by the law. Other than that, it's in the law again, it's in the bag, we're building a university for the Department of Health staff; that can't happen. Then there are valuable people in the Ministry of Finance, so let's get them a university, a finance university, and the Ministry of Culture. Let's set up for the Sports Department, let's build for the Ministry of Economics, let's have college everywhere. I mean, we mess up the system because we make laws, we mess up the state order, we mess up the legal order. Again, the Plan and Budget Commission we've been talking about has an arrangement with the bag of legislation that ends today...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0104par0034	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0103par0035	Okay. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0105par0038	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0106par0039	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 12 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to Law and Law Orders of 688 rows that are being held. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. An Ensar Öğeğir Haydar Akar MADDE 12-25/10/1984, followed by the first joke (g) of Article 13 of Article 3065 of Add Value Tax Act 3065. "h) Surrender and services under disaster management and assistance, housing, feeding, social aid, awareness of society, national and international humanitarian law and international Redbeard Movement activities, war or extraordinary tasks and services of blood, health, migration and refugee services (including asylum services), as part of the duties set out by the Turkish Red House, international cooperation and membership, international menagency and accession of the United Nations and international acquities, as well as the assistance of international institutions and organisations, and as well as the assistance of humanitarian services (including asylum services)." Now, I'm going to have two proposals in common, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 12 of the current Law Proposal 688 be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tünzel Adil Zozani Demir Steel İstiye Birtane Halil Aksoy Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Mustafa Erdem Ali Öz Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0107par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0106par0067	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0108par0068	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0106par0069	Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak on one of the motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0109par0071	Mr. President, I have been promised to convey the opinion of our group on the 12th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly again. Really, we need to rethink some of the arguments here. I think it's more accurate to consider the scope of public-interest institutions, NGOs, because it's important to determine whether or not this civil society serves in the public interest. Because you have to transfer it to institutions that serve all public interests. Is there anyone else involved in this foundation, which is in the public interest of the Yerenai Foundation, which is actually being increased by 15 million dollars a year and by the fact that every year it's going to be increased by the need? For example, how do we determine whether women's organisations work for the public benefit or not? Is this country really going to have the same kind of support or support for women's progress in the present situation, their violence, their social problems, the associations they create to solve their problems, the NGOs? Many women in this country are victims of violence against women, so all kinds of violence... we spoke on this stand, and after the massacre of Özgecan, we said, "Let the hands of women be broken." After that, almost ten hundred women were slaughtered and still being slaughtered. In this regard, especially women who have been abused by their wives, by their lovers, by their relatives, let's say they apply to women's organisations, and many of them do not do this because of impossibility, so women often have to stay in shelters for three months or six months and then go back to life again. Are we, for example, going to add women's organizations to this public thing? I think we should. If it's for the good of the people, then let's evaluate them here, and let's make it fair. Now, we have children who have to work on the street today, for example, before we separate some of them, and budget the foundations or institutions that the government has established for itself, for the benefit of the public, for the benefit of the government, for the benefit of the government, for the benefit of the government, for the benefit of the government. This is where we can assess the approaches to an NGO for their future, institutions for public benefit. That's why we need to get justice, when we collect taxes, when we distribute them. Another issue, valued lawmakers: The issue of inspection is a very serious matter. For example, how do these foundations -- both the Red Sea and the other NGOs -- assess the budget they receive? For example, do they do a gender-sensitive budget, and do they consider the perspective of equality on what they're doing? What perspective does the Redbeard do when doing the help, and if not, what is the control, what is the sanction? For example, let's say, who's overseeing, how he's controlling, how he's not using these funds in line with his purpose, there's no discussion, there's no argument about how to account for this; there's more, there's an institution here, there's help -- at an emotional point in the public interest -- yes, in the international community, there's Turkey. Near us, especially in the Middle East, at a time when there was a need for humanitarian aid in Turkey when there was war and conflict in the Middle East, we don't even see how we, especially the Red or the AFAD, or the people working in this field, work here. In particular, because of the war, we opened our doors, people came here. How much help is being audited here, whether these helps are being done in accordance with its purpose or not, there's no such thing as what's being watched in the face of these benefits. So when we're looking at the laws that we're making, we're not just making a law based on a material need, or there it is, not the need of institution representatives or the representation of power according to its own thing, but let's really define the need of society, let's make this control issue serious, because control is one of the main things of democracy. As a result, the opposition does not say in vain what he says here today on the stand, nor do we just say in opposition, but we also have concerns about this, which need to be resolved. In the end, we are determined to rule this country where we stand. For example, that's not how we're going to run this country when we're running it; we're going to get together with all the NGOs, the public, the citizens, and we're going to set our needs together. Maybe we'll open the way for the public to control it. For example, the public doesn't know, all these laws are being passed, they don't even know where to apply. If there really is an unfair legal situation, he can't even control it, but it's only natural because it's legal in Turkey. In the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of women, everywhere, on the next matter of urban transformation, we will express our views on that matter -- in all these areas, law, law. And we're being imposed on, at least as the opposition, we're expressing our evil for it. We demand that this clause be removed from the text. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0110par0082	Mr Mustafa Erdem will speak on the other motion, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0111par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 12 of the 688th Amendment. I salute you all with love. Dear lawmakers, in accordance with our beliefs, people have to share their own gains, their own resources with others. It's in our pattern, it's in our culture, it's in our religious values, it's in the whole of Islamic civilization. As a culture of charity, this has continued for centuries, but its best shape has hit the era when the Turkish nation led humanity. Now, while we do some good work as individuals, we have to ensure that it gains institutional identity, so that it can reach more people, more masses, more places. As a matter of fact, in our history, various charities, particularly the Red Moon, have been performed, and they have always tried to find solutions to the threats and dangers facing humanity. This has not only been about the history of the Turkish nation, it has also been seeking a solution to the serious dangers facing humanity. Recently, we have been angry, not only in Turkey, but in many parts of the Islamic world as well as in fires, earthquakes, floods, etc. Dear lawmakers, I would like to bring one thing to your attention in particular: those who contribute to a charity first need to obtain it legitimately, legally, through legitimate means, but in our faith, there is another issue, which is as important as the first article, which is clean, legitimately, legally, in the same way as human, human, good, clean, lawful, and legitimate areas. Ecdat has been very sensitive about these matters because he believes that in the case of eternal life, as we call yesterday's sweat, eye shiner, in the case of the benefit of humanity, he's been very thorough about them, and he's been a source of light to humanity through their civilization for centuries, and he's been a source of peace and prosperity, but he's shown that from our recent past, in the days of the AKP's power, they're being used out of purpose, serving out of purpose, serving people's sweats and eyes for political or for different accounts, and unfortunately, the reason that Turkish people's feelings of good have been abused, they're not being abused. Given the landscapes we are facing right now, whatever its name is, it appears from yesterday to today that mankind's good feelings have been used for one way or another, for one reason or another, for their religious values to be somehow weakened. Dear lawmakers, charities are set up to do charity. Charity is established as a matufacturation for the cause of charity. But its goal is to gain eternal space, to be at peace in the eternal world, to serve the purpose of those who can't do what they personally want to do. But you see, in recent times, especially in your time, some of the NGOs or some of the charities that you've established are a remarkable example of how you're being used to your political interests, how our people's charitable ambitions are being used out of context. I would like to remind and warn you in particular that the people of good deeds, the people of good deeds, the people who want to gain the Hereafter, to gain peace and happiness in the eternal world, and those who abuse their purposes, to build world domination, to live themselves in glass mansions, and to impose their wrongs on the Turkish nation in the form of their actions, our morality, our faith, our faith, our culture, and our religion, I salute you all with great dissension.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0093	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motions to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0113par0095	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0096	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to Law and Law Orders of 688 rows that are being held. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends MADDE 12-25/10/1984, followed by the first joke (g) of Article 13 of Article 3065 of Add Value Tax Act 3065. "h) Surrender and services under disaster management and assistance, housing, feeding, social aid, awareness of society, national and international humanitarian law and international Redbeard Movement activities, war or extraordinary tasks and services of blood, health, migration and refugee services (including asylum services), as part of the duties set out by the Turkish Red House, international cooperation and membership, international menagency and accession of the United Nations and international acquities, as well as the assistance of international institutions and organisations, and as well as the assistance of humanitarian services (including asylum services)." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0114par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0106	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0115par0107	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0108	Mr. Bihlun Tamayligil will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0116par0111	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 12th amendment of Proposition 688. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, our friends may have some urgent matters they'd like to discuss, but I'd like to express myself outside of them.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0114	Let's hear it for Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0116par0115	They can probably share it together outside if they want to.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0112par0116	Please listen to Mr. Tamaylıgil. Please be quiet. I'll rewind your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0117par0119	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, today is March 18th. It is my duty to share the spirit of March 18th and March 18th, as a member of this bench, especially as a woman's MP, to share the spirit of independence and freedom that the Turkish woman has opened with the flag of the struggle for salvation. March 18th, of course, when we look at the history of the world, the struggle for independence and freedom, as well as the epicism of a great opposition in unity and unity, and as this epic is written, Çanakkale is watered by the blood of martyrs and veterans, which is the land in which a nation is resurrected. Now, on the 100th anniversary of this victory, while learning from history and wishing for the rest of the peaceful days, I want to honor and praise Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, his comrades and our heroic martyrs. As I say these words, I regret to inform you that in recent times, while sharing the spirit of March 18th, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has not paid any attention to the words I have faced. Look, there's a mecmua called Harp Mekmua, where the Ottoman State printed in 1915, where Seyit speaks highly of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, along with the Corporal. Today, we still face those who prevent us from expressing that praise. It must not be forgotten that while these eminators remain on the dusty shelves of history, Mustafa Kemal will always hold his place in the golden letters of Turkish history. Now, what I want to say about today's VAT exception is, look, we have a law, and it's the Law of 1606, and it's the Law of Compulsion, Some Taxes of the Association and Institutions. This law has also been changed by Law No. 3685, and is exempted from all taxes, tax, picture and mortar from all incomes provided by the Turkish Air Association, Social Services and Child Welfare Association, Turkey's Association for Helpers, Darkşafafa, official darulace institutions, all its incomes, all its incomes, all its tax, picture and mortars. Now, we're looking at the foundation of the Green Moon now produced and tax exceptions to the Kazla. It's beautiful, of course, that Kızılay is doing very important work, speeding up blood donations, blood donations, handing out to all Turkey and the world in times of disaster, all the time of negative conditions, but we, well, why leave the others out when there are a lot of defined institutions here? Look, there's a Dynasty, a school for children without a father all over the land of Anatolia, and we don't give them any exceptions to VAT. He paid $3 million VAT last year. Paid for what? The book he took, the book. Let's not pay VAT to the blanket, the tent, but let's let them pay. Plus, when they raise donations to the Red and Greena, it's an app that reduces all of it from the corporate tax matrix, but it's a limit that doesn't exceed 5 percent of the mathematics. Why do we separate efforts to strengthen such institutions or relief activities? Why is there a need to separate this? See, dear friends, today demands for the Day of Darkness have been repeated in the Commission over and over again; it has not been accepted; the Association for Supporting Modern Life has not been accepted. The hospital is being built on kids with leukemia, so why don't we make exceptions? It's important to think that if we think of all of them as a social responsibility, it's worth taking into account completely. But we've been looking at Redaya lately, and, uh, he didn't get any help from the Ministry of Red Health like the Greenbear. The Red Moon was also included here, so that when the Green Moon Foundation was opening up, it would be a keyword.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0118par0129	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0117par0130	Kızılay recently -- which our teacher has just expressed, has received some donations regarding the law of donors, but especially because he was receiving donations from those who passed through December 17th through 25th, he shared with them on social media, the most successful, Turkey's 3rd, the region's 1st, has also removed the head of the blood centre. And I say not to think about politics, but I salute our coven.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit05spe0118par0133	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break on request.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0118par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 688. The commission is here. The government is here. There are four motions in Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 34th interim clause added to Article No. 3065 with Article 13 of the current 688 rows of the Law Proposal in the following manner. Mustafa Elitaş Osman Boyraz Mihrimah Belma Kın Erol Kaya Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special "UNICIAL MADDE 34- 6/10/2011, dated 28076 and published in the Official Gazette 28076/2011, is an exclusion from the value of the value tax, the stamp tax and the deed for improvement, renovation and transformation projects in the area defined by borders and coordinates. Until 31/12/2018, the transfer of these premises to the Treasury does not constitute a profit by the laws of the IRS and Institutions Tax." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Interim 34th Article, which is envisioned for the adoption of Article 3065 in Articles 3065 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Council of Plans and Budgets. "UNIOR MADDE 34-29/6/2011, dated Article 644 and issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Article 2 of the First Amendment (g) which was issued in Article 2/12/1983 and issued in Article 2/10/2011 and published in Article 28076/2011 and issued by the Ministry of Finance and by the Council of Finance and by the Constitution on the Agency and its duties and by the amendment of the Constitution on the basis of the amendment and by the implementation of the amendments and by the provision of the government and by the provision of the Constitution 6/10/2011 and by the release of the 28076/2011, 26/9/2011. The value value tax, which cannot be removed through discountation until the period of delivery, has been considered as a expense in identifying the income or institutional tax matrix for the time of delivery. In addition to the value added tax in order to solve the property issue of the citizens of Sultanbeyli, it is announced to the public by means of proper means of the settlements, which have been transferred to the treasury in exchange for the return of the fall and the non-transmitters. No changes will be made for 10 years, except for those who have a property problem in Sultanbeyli. Now, the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal No. 688 is currently in session. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Erol Dora Iron Steel Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Öz Alim Iş Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0119par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0118par0037	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0120par0038	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0118par0039	Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak in one of the motions.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0121par0040	Hello again. Since most of our fellow MPs today are in their territory due to the week of Nevroz, the watch is up to us in the celebrations. That's why I'm often in front of you, but I'm going to express the opinion of our group. Dear friends, this 13th article is a matter of urban transformation. In fact, we have been very clear about our opposition to urban transformation on this bench. In particular, during the establishment of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, there is a serious problem with the Department of Urbanism and the environment side by side, so we think it's a fundamental point of opening the environment, our cities, to a Ranta. Today's arrangement is related to a project in Sultanbeyli, Istanbul, which is actually the solution to problems that have arisen due to a previous arrangement. Istanbul is one of the areas where this is a serious problem with urban transformation, because the issue of urban transformation is not only a matter of building, but also a class perspective, because it is where the poor are the poorest, where the poorest people are, where the Roma, the Kurds, the bottom people in this community are, but it's also beautiful, it's the system that clears up places in the most beautiful parts of the city and gives it to the richer. There are serious problems under the name urban transformation. Instead of transforming from place to place, we are faced with a mindset that brings others there, brings the rich, makes them richer, and does not bring those who own it close to it. Kent means city administration, and it's also a democracy. Every city has a soul. You, now, without seeing this spirit, just looking at everything as a building, looking at every building with a dollar sign, you see what you've actually done. That's exactly what the AKP government is doing because it's turned into a construction party; it's building all over Turkey, it's getting a run through construction, and it's opening all of our living spaces to this. On the one hand, HES is plundering our nature with projects, despite all social opposition, it's forcing people to migrate, from Kurdistan to Turkey, everywhere, to Aegean, with HES projects in all areas of life, and then it's actually turning people into another obligatory space, and then it's actually opening them up into Ranta. Again, at another point, in the best parts of town, in the most productive places, he's getting people out of here. Another issue is that when he does that, he doesn't ask the people there, he doesn't get the opinion of the people there. What are the possibilities, what are the risks, what are they going to face? We offer a better life. They actually tear down our cities. So, as we say, the city has a soul, and its spirit has corrupted the AKP's power. The big big buildings are standing there, where he's getting a runt, his habitat, the ecological system, they're all falling apart. Look, there was a time in Istanbul when they called it "Kanal İstanbul." This Channel Istanbul Project is unpredictable. On the one hand, the third bridge project, on the other hand, with urban transformation projects, you actually removed Istanbul from Istanbul, historical, natural structure, and destroyed its cultural structure. You destroyed a city thousands of years old where people lived, their traditions, their culture. See, now, we see the same mentality in another way in the Middle East. These gangs called ISIS don't just attack people, they attack nature. Look what he did in Ninova, Iraq. It destroyed human history. What's the point of his attacking the stones, attacking the artifacts there? Eliminate the culture of life there, the spirit there. In fact, what power is doing today is another modernized method. So he's looting everything he's been through, taking everything out as a living space. He just builds buildings everywhere, takes away social, cultural, economics. He creates new classes, deepens the gap between the poor and the rich, builds walls, builds dams against each other. So we've always expressed our assessment of this. That's why there's gonna be more trouble. So your laws are causing so many serious problems, we're going to make an effort to get new laws out of here so that we can fix them again. But let me put it this way: people aren't who they used to be, people are awake now, taking care of nature, taking care of themselves, taking care of their culture, taking care of their past, and fighting about it, objecting, rioting. Travel resistance is a very important momentum in this regard. We think the AKP government should learn from this. Because if you don't learn from this, you'll face other social problems tomorrow. Do you think that whatever evil you commit will ever come upon you? It's not like that. Because where there is no injustice, there is no peace. No justice, no peace, and I say you'll see it as soon as possible, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0122par0051	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0123par0052	You said injustice, you said it wrong, you said the sentence wrong, but the sentence was wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0124par0053	Where there's no justice...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0125par0054	Where there's no justice... Thank you for fixing the power.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0124par0055	It's okay, we understand, we understand you Sebahat Haným, it's okay because we understand you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0126par0056	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0127par0058	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the amendment to Article 13 of the Law Proposal on Amendments in Article 688. I hereby salute your high council. Instead of finding radical solutions to our country's growing problems every day, the government is trying to find a solution through the bag of laws it has drawn up from time to time. Instead of solving our nation's problems in the bag of laws, the government has given interest to groups of numbers. The provision for non-profit income and the non-profit of institutions is in Article 13 of the law proposal. Under Article 13/10/1984, the temporary Article 34 (3065) added to Level Value Tax Act 3065, under the urban transformation projects, there is an arrangement for the proceeds from the transfer of subsidiaries through the trampa into the treasure. Until 31/12/2015, there has been no profit due to the planned transfer process, and the value of adding surrenders to the same transactions is excluded from the value tax. The arrangement is part of AKP government's runt-based urban transformation policies. The government carried out its main axis of runt-based and corruption-based policies through the construction sector. One reason is the size of the construction industry, another reason is that this sector is one of the lucrative areas. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are based on the construction plans for the construction industry's runt distribution. The issue of zoning in Istanbul's Sultanbeyli district is in hiding and is the basis for corruption. The AKP wanted to hide its urban transformation rate under the name "afflicted law." As of the day the Law took effect on the transformation of areas under disaster risk, many practices have been laid out against our citizens. The urban transformation began as a law for enriching allies for the government and the AKP. The applications of urban transformation projects so far have revealed that projects are more than a transformation, more than a looting and looting project. The government authority granted to TOKI and municipalities -- particularly the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- has become an investment area for favourable capitals. The rights of the poor people who live around here have not been looked after, I'm afraid. In these areas, the rights of the rangers have been completely exposed. The legal basis for urban transformation is the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 6306, which took effect in May 2012. Even two-and-a-half years of practice of this law provide a view that meets property rights, is based on social participation, and is far from the center of social benefits. With this law, the world's history of construction-sale practices have been revealed. Because the way to make the rate the fastest and the busiest is the do-and-go app. Mr. President, this law violates the principle of social law, which is part of Article 2 of the Constitution, the principle of equality on Article 10 and the principle of housing immunity on Article 21 and the principle of property rights on Article 35. This provision violates the principle of right-seeking freedom of the Constitution, the principle of health, environment and housing on Articles 56 and 57, and the principle of the open way of judicial action against all procedures and actions of the administration under Article 125. It is an arrangement that allows state-owned land to be pursued by supporters, which will easily sell companies such as television and banks to subsidiaries who have been handed over to the TMSF. With all these thoughts and feelings, I humbly salute the High Council, wishing for the acceptance of our amendment motion.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0128par0069	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Interim 34th Article, which is envisioned for the adoption of Article 3065 in Articles 3065 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Council of Plans and Budgets. [[İstanbul]] "UNIOR MADDE 34-29/6/2011, dated Article 644 and issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Article 2 of the First Amendment (g) which was issued in Article 2/12/1983 and issued in Article 2/10/2011 and published in Article 28076/2011 and issued by the Ministry of Finance and by the Council of Finance and by the Constitution on the Agency and its duties and by the amendment of the Constitution on the basis of the amendment and by the implementation of the amendments and by the provision of the government and by the provision of the Constitution 6/10/2011 and by the release of the 28076/2011, 26/9/2011. The value value tax, which cannot be removed through discountation until the period of delivery, has been considered as a expense in identifying the income or institutional tax matrix for the time of delivery. In addition to the value added tax in order to solve the property issue of the citizens of Sultanbeyli, it is announced to the public by means of proper means of the settlements, which have been transferred to the treasury in exchange for the return of the fall and the non-transmitters. No changes will be made for 10 years, except for those who have a property problem in Sultanbeyli. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0129par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0128par0080	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0130par0081	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0128par0082	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0131par0085	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, this is one of the two three most important clauses of our proposal. The issue is: Sultanbeyli district of İstanbul is one of the top districts in which our citizens have a property problem. Our citizens in Sultanbeyli have problems from 2/B, problems from settlements on forest land, and thirdly, problems from the constructions of citizens on private property, which are not in other districts, which are in Sultanbeyli, which are not in other districts. I mean, there's another person on private property, a real person who built a building, built a slum, built a store, whatever, but the deed to this building, like in 2/B or forest land, belongs to the treasure, not to the forest, not to the real people. Now, apparently, this clause is brought from this property to solve the property issue of our citizens due to the settlement on the property. We want our citizens in Sultanbeyli to own the deed. There's no argument about it. Sultanbeyli has 15 neighborhoods: Fatih neighbourhood, Mecidiye neighbourhood, Orhan Gazi neighborhood, Aksemsettin neighbourhood, Necip Fasıl, Yavuz Selim, Turgut Reis, Adil neighborhood, Hasanpaşa, Hassanpaşa. Despite our proposals, the settlement issue of the forest still remains; Ahmet Yesevi, Mehmet Akif, Abdurrahmangazi, Battalgazi, Architect Sinan, Hamidiyah. So, almost all of these 15 neighborhoods have problems with the building of a citizen on this particular property. Now, our motion is to propose that we solve this property problem through a trampa, which is a trade. The property in these 15 neighborhoods is heavily owned by several companies, several people. They've collected the land. Let's take these lands into the treasury, and in exchange for the land that's been bought into the treasury, let's give some of these companies, some people, some land from the treasury. Instead of giving up this land, the Treasury can consider its own property, the land, the land of Sultanbeyli, and give its deed to the citizens. Let's say that the government didn't prefer this way; let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's turn over some land of the treasure, let's turn over some land of its. Then we say: Explain the value of this land you're passing on, Mr. Secretary, let the government explain this. Two: What is the zoning state of this land, what is the zoning situation on the date of your transfer, when you traded it, and what is that? And for ten years, this zoning situation, the ones in Sultanbeyli, which you have made public by trampa to give the citizen his deed, in exchange for the value of land in other parts of Istanbul, and the development of those lands, should not be changed for ten years. It's as simple as that. If we're going to give the deed to our citizen in Sultanbeyli, don't let any of the citizens in Sultanbeyli hit a profit. It's as simple as that. I've had a press conference before, and it's a very old issue. I've heard that the land of MIT in Maslak is about 800 acres -- I may be wrong about a hundred acres -- but it's a land the size of hundreds of acres -- is going to be handed over to these people, and that's what I've heard. I've had a press conference, I've denied it, no one can attempt it, no one dares. Then when I spoke to the members of the ruling party, they told me it was an old matter. Now, instead of MIT land, there will be other land. Dear friends, whatever you're going to give us, let's explain what the zoning situation is, what it's worth, let's put this in the law. As you have not done so, you have now submitted a motion, which is an exception to income and institutional tax; it is not in the text passed by the Commission; you will bring it here in a moment and vote and accept it. Don't let anyone hit Sultanbeyli's back. The goal should be to give the deed to the citizens of Sultan Beyli, and we support it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0132par0093	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I will submit the motion to your votes... III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0133par0097	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0132par0098	We've got a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Seçebi, Mr. Süçer, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Altay, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Akar, Mr. Bulkuk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 34th interim clause added to Article No. 3065 with Article 13 of the current 688 rows of the Law Proposal in the following manner. Osman Boyraz (Istanbul) and his friends "UNICIAL MADDE 34- 6/10/2011, dated 28076 and published in the Official Gazette 28076/2011, is an exclusion from the value of the value tax, the stamp tax and the deed for improvement, renovation and transformation projects in the area defined by borders and coordinates. Until 31/12/2018, the transfer of these premises to the Treasury does not constitute a profit by the laws of the IRS and Institutions Tax." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0134par0113	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0132par0114	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0135par0115	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0132par0116	On the motion, Mr. Nusret Flagtar will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0136par0119	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. As mentioned earlier, the issue is actually to solve the property problem, which is the most important of the solution proposed by the EC PARTY government so far. Since 1950, in particular, some of the deeds in Sultanbeyli were cancelled, 27 per cent were 2/B, and we had settled 2/B as a result of our work with the opposition in the past period. However, the original deed to 9,000 acres of land has been cancelled. After the 1950s, 200,000 people bought the site with handouts, but in 1987, when the trial was over, the original deed holders repossessed their deeds and sold them to each other. 6.146 shareholders buy 9,000 acres. However, the number of parcels is 22. Only parcel 1561 is 601.129 square meters, and the shareholder is 2.122. In an environment with such intensive stockholders, 30 percent of the 9,000 acres now, 3,000 acres, both entitled and owned, shareholders. 1,600 acres are owned by the city. The remaining 35 percent are the areas that seven people and companies buy and collect. There's a way to solve the property here: the treasure must either nationalize it or barter it, and by handing it over to the municipality, I'm not saying that it's the Law 4706, because they're entitled to the rights, they're entitled to the deed, they're entitled to the deed. Well, what should be done? Again, by selling them, the municipality must grant its rightful owners the deed and convert its crooked construction by improving and renovating against the possible earthquake, by implementing the corrupt formation of the beautiful Sultanbeyli. So it took us two years to discuss whether the majority of the financers would be taxed or not in exchange for this property through the trampa. At the end of two years, let's get this clause out, let's get this law out, which is taxing, so... what do you give? As Mr. Hamzacebi said, they requested the MIT land as part of its rightful owners. Not 800 acres, but 120 acres, after they were cut off from DOP, they demanded a land of 75 acres in Maslak, with neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization nor the Prime Minister's office allowing it. This is a critical, sensitive place. There's still room for improvement...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0137par0122	So that's what it was.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0136par0123	They had it, they demanded it, they still demand it, even now. The person you know, one of them, even now...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0137par0124	I don't know him, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0136par0125	Maybe you know him, probably, I know him. He said. We said we weren't allowed. It's out of our hands, the Prime Minister, the Finance Ministry won't allow it. So, where's it gonna be? Like Yenibosna, let a value be made on the project value that will be applied there, not the numerical value of land in the outer areas of Istanbul, such as Esenyurt, which is available for development. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has used their authority to measure and evaluate SEC licensed companies, at the price of $2.350 in Sultanbeyli with a sample of 0.53... what's the cost of the project there? 100 lira. At the same price... where is it? Let's say, "Esenyurt." What is the precedent in Esenyurt? Two precedents. What's the value? Four thousand liras. 2x4. That's a thousand, that's his price. I'm just giving you one example: here's the value compared to 74,074 square meters in Newbosna, according to the present, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. How many square feet of land can Sultanbeyli buy? They have counted, and shall take from Sultanbeyli 1,273 acres of treasure, and shall give seventy-four acres of Yenibosna. And what will the treasure do when it gets them? He will hand it over to the municipality, and the municipality will have the right to property by selling it to the citizens through Law 4706. With firms gathering shareholders, it would be easier to trade with a small number of areas. Such a method has been applied by saying, "It's a tax-based procedure, and it will apply by buying again, assuming that the municipality can be unfair to the rights holders of the municipality and the rights of the municipality there. So here, both property is being solved and public interest is being looked after, and the matter is being solved by the restoration and infrastructure of the transformation of Sultanbeyli. I offer your appreciation, my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0138par0129	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0139par0130	Mr. President, Mr. Bayraktar has been taunting me by mentioning my name and saying that my information is not true, I promise you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0138par0131	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0139par0134	I watched Mr. Bayraktar's speech with regret. This shows how true my speech is. Mr. Bayraktar says that the land in Maslak is an old matter. He's gone now. Now, a land the size of 74 acres of Yenibosna will be given. So, everything is planned, arranged, what land will be bought, what land will be given in return, and the amendments are now being made in accordance with this planned, arranged situation. That's a misdemeanor for a bid. You've got it all figured out, you're using the Coven.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0140par0136	I gave an example.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0141par0137	He gave an example, for example.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0142par0138	What kind of example?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0143par0139	Sir, what's the sample? He will give 74 acres of Yenibosna.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0144par0140	He said, "It's like that."
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0143par0141	Why are you doing 74 acres of Yenibosna...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0145par0142	For example, he said.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0143par0143	Yeah, I know that, and just as Maslak came to me, that information came to me, and that information came to me. I don't know, I don't know, I know. It's not that the victim in Sultan Beyli is a strange citizen who owns the deed, it's that he's apparently getting hit by someone while they're doing the deed; that's the point. I object to this side of the business. We party against this side of the business. Come on, let's get transparency. What zoning situation, what is it, what is it worth? Well, that's not even a genius anymore, because Mr. Flagtar says it's cooked. It's all over, it's being used by Parliament. I resent it. If you'll accept this motion, I'd like to express my regrets. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0146par0146	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0147par0147	Mr. President, I want a correction. There's been a new twist using my name, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0146par0148	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0147par0149	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0146par0150	At your explaining place.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0148par0151	He made a fool of himself.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0146par0152	You want to talk about bullying. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0149par0156	Congressmans, in fact, an example has been requested by the opposition parties earlier. For example, what grounds will be evaluated? I gave an example. It's just that, if it's 1,300 acres, it's the key to a total of 9,000 acres of work, but there's no critical areas as important as Maslak, and even if it's requested, the Prime Minister won't allow it, and there won't be a change like that without the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister's permission. Under the measures appointed by the Council of Ministers, the procedure shall be applied in trampa operations in places the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has put into practice. As an example is asked of me, what examples are there? Usually, I said that Istanbul has not yet developed, like Esenyurt, like the remote regions of Tuzla, like a place in Yenibosna, or there is no agreement, there is no era.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0150par0157	Newbosna hasn't improved?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0149par0158	If these were the times, then the law wouldn't have to be brought here, then the solution would be over, the problem would be over. So there are flaws. They asked me to do a study of what grounds to do, and before that, I said, "I'm going to give you a sample of it as a key." That's the way it is. If it were given, this law wouldn't have come here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0151par0159	No, apparently not.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0149par0160	No, there's going to be a principled study. The tech guys, of course, are doing a study. What are they working with? These land... most of the requested land has been assigned to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. What they want is the proper ones -- based on the value -- the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will get SEC licensed companies to make evaluations, even the zoning requirements, and absolutely...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0151par0161	Then let the matter be put in.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0149par0162	I have great confidence in the sensitivity of our Minister, Mr. Idris Gülluce. With extraordinary precision, the government and the undiminished orphan's rights will never be defeated. I'm a witness, and in this frame, such a substance was needed to speed up these proceedings. I offer it with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0152par0165	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 14; all three are of the same nature; I will work together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th Amendment proposal of the 688 Orders of the Common Law. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy One Iron Steel Fair Zozani to Property Abdullah Levent corporate Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal The signatures of the final motion of the same nature: Izzet Ceslim Sarı Vahaap Picks Haydar Akar Bihlun Tamayligil Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0153par0191	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0152par0192	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0154par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0152par0194	Mr. Sebahat Tuncel...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0155par0195	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0152par0196	I'm reading the reason: The tax system in Turkey is the most unfair, transparent tax system in their country, which has the constitution based on the world's modern principles of law and transparency. This tax system, based on taxes less than rich, poor or medium income, is a system of increased social tensions, unfair gains and attacks on social fault lines. The tax system, which should be handled as a whole, has not been dealt with due to the buildup of secondary capital in the AKP's power, while temporary substances have been added to the law and supporters have been enriched. These savings techniques have been created in a number of ways. One of these techniques is to open the way for capital buildup through the transfer of public resources to media institutions. In addition to this technique, its content, its payments, its shapes, its shapes, which are closed to the controls of the Court, its integration of public resources into capital savings is both legal and ethically unacceptable. 14. The removal of matter from the text of the law is necessary to establish law and transparency in Turkey. Mr. Akçay, are you going to speak? Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0156par0203	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 14th Amendment. I salute you all. Now, with an additional provision in this article, the possibility of establishing a free right to altitude for forty-nine years in favour of the Kızılay and the Yerelay Foundation, the property, the treasure, the public institution, its institutions. So the cat is entrusted with a liver, and there's a scone on its public resources, like the pate of Hassan. I mean, you know, running the state like a company, as we put it, it's off the record and under the stairs. There's no way to accept this clause. The Green Moon Foundation is yet to be explained as to who it is. Let's find out if this Yeliay Foundation administration is the Knights of the Temple, Mason's Lodge, parallel or Hashishi. Why are you so anonymous, unexplainable, why are you afraid? Aren't you in power with the votes you get from the nation? What are you hiding from people? This is nothing but keeping your off-the-books activities from the public. So I say again: Redbear, set up the engine instead of the green moon, or the river! These are the activities that will eventually blacken the AKP, so set it up already! [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear friends, during December 17th and 25th, the corruption and bribery of the Justice and Development Party's ruling was now revealed in a criminal form, in the form of a criminal form. Now everyone knows all the cover-up, cover-up and cover-up activities, and as part of this corruption, Turkish-based zoning and bribery activities were badly reflected in the public. Now, dear friends, there's also a reasonable situation where when a person's guilt, after a crime, or a crime has arisen, he brakes himself a little bit, waits a little bit, but, in spite of the December 17th-25th process, the government does not stop, the practices that prepare the ground for corruption, bribery and irregularities continue to sail recklessly. Here is a number of organisations such as TÜRGEV, with the approval of the Ministry of Interior, also opened the way for the allocation of the foundations. Now, it used to be in the form of a plot, which was changed to an immovable form. So instead of the plot, the foundations, the associations, will tell their mayors: "Ya, I like this plot. If that land belongs to the city or not, buy it, nationalize it, whatever you do. Build me a 20-story skyscraper, build me an AVM, build me some businesses, and then hand it over to me for 25 to 30 years, at least, for free or at a very symbolic price. These opportunities have been given and are now unstoppable. What kind of recklessness is that? It's impossible to understand how these public resources, people's property, state property can be so reckless. Dear lawmakers, the government's activities have also been reflected in its report on February 17, 2010, by the Presidential State Control Board. In addition to the privileges granted to associations that work for the public, some associations take advantage of special exceptions and privileges that are different from others. Hopefully we'll continue with the following article because the presidential State Control report is important to this issue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0157par0213	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Vahaper will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0158par0217	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. This bag, number 688 rows, is in fact the regulations for the Red and Greena, which are the most time-consuming issues in the Commission's work, and most of all, as a matter of numbers. In fact, the Red Moon is doing a mostra task for the privileges of Greenea. I mean, we're showing the Red, but in the meantime, we're making some very important arrangements for Green. Look, there's been an arrangement in Article 4 of this proposal. There was an arrangement to transfer $15m from the Greenaya Ministry of Health budget each year. It happened before, in 2013, so there's no foundation, there's the Green Moon Association; $12.8 million was transferred at that time. Again, there is an exemption for the income and institutional tax on the Red Sea. The 12th article, again, has the exception of the VAT of the Kızılay Association. Article 14 of the 14th article, which we are currently discussing on the motion -- I will be back in a moment -- there are very, very important savings, there are changes. The 15th article also brings privileges to both Red and Green. In the 16th article, again, this time, it brings some tax exemptions and exceptions to the economic enterprises of the Red One. Now, what is the sign of Greeny, so why are such important arrangements for Greenia being made? You know, Yeşilaj is an institution, a building, under the leadership of the President's children, and in 02/12/2014 -- I believe -- that he manages the foundation. Now, they're certainly doing important services, working for the community, for the public. There's no way to discuss Turkish Red already. I just told you, the Turkish Red is being shown, but in the background, Greenaya is being granted significant privileges. Now, let's take a look at the 14th article. Friends, we are here to establish the right of altitude without charge to the Turkish Kızılay Association, the Turkish Yeşelay Society and the Turkish Yeşelay Foundation, the treasure, the properties of public institutions and institutions. In addition, on top of the government's jurisdiction and savings, we allow them to use it for free, and we don't get a cut of them. We put it on the property register of the right-of-altitude subsidiaries, and it's not against the purpose of the movers, and I don't have a say in that. But, now, look, there are some very important privileges for these organizations here. What distinguishes Green from LSSEV, from a Turkish Education Foundation, from a narrow dawn? Now, think about it, if LSSEV wants to build a hospital, whether it's a state-owned, treasure-owned building, go and apply: I'm doing an important charity job, I've got services with cancer kids, I've got activities. I want to build a hospital, an oncology hospital. The Falanca institution has a building, so give me the right of altitude for forty-nine years, without charge, build, allocate. If he says, there's a rejection here. If Yeliray makes the same request, according to this law, of course, she must give it with the approval of the institution. Or if Kızılay makes the same request, I need a building for the blood center. If he says -- let's say there's a building in the Social Security Agency -- if he makes such a request, that demand will be fulfilled according to this law. But as I just said, in this country, there are dozens of organizations that actually work for the benefit of society, for the benefit of the public, there are foundations, the people of this country, the children, we don't give them that privilege. This is a huge injustice, so we would like to propose that this clause be removed from this proposal. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0159par0227	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 15th article, and since the motions are of the same nature, I will proceed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 688 Orders Numbered Law Proposal is 15. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tuzel Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal The signatures of the final motion of the same nature: Izzet Ceslim Sarı Vahaap Picks Bihlun Tamaylıgil Haydar Akar Does the Commission participate in the reading of the motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0160par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0159par0251	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0161par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0159par0253	Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0162par0254	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to the esteemed MPs. In fact, we've been discussing the same topic on the Red Moon, the Green Moon Foundation. We've always expressed our questions about how to serve in public interest, how to control the resources transferred to them, and once again, we want to underline that. Of course, supporting charities, associations, NGOs may be a common opinion on this, but what do we really need to do about it? No openings, no transparency... how many personnel will go here or work in what field, how much of the material resources transferred here will be used, what is his plan, no debate. There's only one law that's been passed to us, and this law is being insisted on. Clearly, the government has already had some discussions about this, made some decisions, and here, for forty-nine years, he will rent this place, do various jobs over it, and spend the public's resources on these foundations. On top of that, it's up to us to approve, or to make our opposition. In this regard, let us stress that this should be seriously reversed, causing serious problems. Another thing: Notice that in this text of the law, we talk about a few things at once. On the one hand, regulations regarding the Ministry of Youth and Sports include the Ministry of Education, and we're talking about privatisation issues in health; on the one hand, we're trying to talk about how public resources can be transferred to some foundations; on the other hand, the fact that public resources are being followed back to their allies; on the other hand, by urban transformation; on the other hand, electrical leaks and missing shares, private property violations, Internet access -- look, how many ministries are involved -- we're trying to talk about a matter in the same bag law, and many of them are actually based on the same material. The reason for our opposition in this regard also speaks for itself. So, if a ministry is doing a study on something, the income is widely debated, comprehensive suggestions are presented here, a discussion can be carried out over it. Now, while our friend from the ruling party was just presenting, especially when he was doing an example of urban transformation, I'm making a mockery of the other person. Under the name, he's actually expressing his true intentions. So, while we're expressing these arguments of law, we're here to present the fact that it's a clear indication that what is expressed here is that it's a curtain, that it's an opportunity to serve people for public good, that it's an opportunity to budget here from the Ministry of Health, to solve the problems that are happening here, that something else is actually meant to be done there. There's two things. There's a reality -- reality -- that we're trying to pass this law with a prerequisite, by putting jobs that we can actually do with existing, existing institutions into another institution, and by doing something like $15,000 from the Ministry of Health now that will change in a year. But, on the other hand, what is the real truth? It is unclear who will oversee this, how he will oversee it, where he will serve, and whether he truly serves those whom he serves. Because what it really means is, we want to express that we're dealing with a serious problem here in the matter of what really is a target audience. So, here, with the transfer of public resources to some foundations such as Kızılay, Yezilay, in fact, the AKP is expressing to us that it wants to gain something other than this. So, giving up such practices is important for better health work here. How many hours has this place been running, and really, this Parliament is no longer able to make a very healthy law. We've become a Parliament where only power and opposition impose the law, where the opposition gives criticism as they speak, but ultimately what power says, we've become a hard-working parliament. I mean, can that happen? Even the ruling party representatives here, they're listening to some of it now, some of it out there. If the group's deputy presidents say yes, then yes. If he says no, there's an argument over the matter of no...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0163par0259	There's one of you, and there's one of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0162par0260	I think they called you on duty today. I don't know. Is your deputy in danger? If that's the case, I think it's a problem. I mean, you don't have to say anything here. We've been talking all morning. Apparently, your location isn't guaranteed. I mean, if you're always trying to talk something like that out of it, it's a problem.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0163par0261	What do I do? You guys are here, you're down to one.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0162par0262	Anyway, you've given me the benefit of the doubt. Good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0164par0264	Thank you. Who's going to talk about the other motion? Mr. Akçay, are you going to speak? The 15th article...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0165par0267	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0164par0268	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0165par0270	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 15th Amendment. In my speech on Article 14, I'm sorry, the government's report on these activities of the AKP anonymous company on February 17, 2010, was mentioned in its report on the presidential State Control Board regarding the well-being institutional status and its activities. I'd like to share with you a sentence from the result section of the report, which is important, the review, research, and findings of the 2010 Presidential State Board of Control Report: In addition to the privileges provided to associations that benefit the public, some associations are privileged within the general structure by taking advantage of special exceptions or privileges, as opposed to others. • They become privileged, such as the Kızılay, Yeşıay Foundation, TÜRGAV and so on. Says the report. Isn't it one of the most important indicators of democracy, democracy, to disrupt the civil society, to give the civil society the importance, to strengthen it, to expand its field of activity? No, it's... it's causing a breakdown of the civil society structure, a limitation of public interest activities in certain areas. I mean, land, land, construction. And as a result, financial resources are concentrated in a number of associations. I mean, what more is there to say in a presidential state review board report? So, a little politically speaking, who's to say, I don't want to repeat it here. These amendments, envisioned in the proposal, deepened the privileges highlighted in the presidential State Control Board report. So, unfortunately, the report's points are further negative, and the two NGOs, as a whole, are being dragged into an environment that allows them to implement new irregularities, corruption and bribery. Therefore, we think it would be more appropriate to remove these substances from this proposal text, and the arrangements that lead to this kind of non-region should be waived. And the 15th article is a continuation of 14. In the current allocations, there is an E-payment on the basis of the 14th article. I mean, there's so much greed going on. Dear friends, this Kızılay, Yeşilay are now fully involved in political propaganda. After the mining disaster in Soma, on 13 May 2014, of course, the aid of our citizens, some distributions of the Redemption, soma Mayor Soma's AKP City Council Member, and one of the executives of the Red Arm of the AKP Women's Arms. Without wearing those clothes, and without being expressed by the Kızılay, they were distributed as if by a political party or by power -- I don't want to decrypt too many people, but one is the AKP Councillor, one is the AKP Women's Arms President -- and the help used for propaganda. I mean, this Red Moon, why there's so much attention on the green moon, and why there's so much evidence and documentation in Soma. With these thoughts, I ask that this clause be removed according to our proposal, with respect.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0166par0277	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On the other motion, Mr. Cetin, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0167par0279	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the 15th article. Of course, I'd like to stick to the matter a little bit, to be honest. I mean, it's our duty to own institutions like Kızılay in Turkey, like Yeşilay, but it's not an acceptable approach for us to build a foundation to do the duties of Yeşilaj, by exploiting them, by leaning on them, by turning the assets of that foundation over to public institutions and corporations, to hand over the property of the treasure, and after that process, that foundation is being transferred to this foundation because it is being passed on. Because we help the foundation, the association, the association, the institution, the foundation, the foundation, for the public benefit of the treasure. Even though we have asked the ministers of governments, who are being helped with treasure from these public good institutions? We can't even use the right to respond to those who are the prime ministers or those who are the ministers. Of course, here, this amount has reached almost the size of a new covered grant, except for the covered allowance. I mean, what resources are being used; what association, society, foundation is being given; whether or not Lighthouse is in it -- or whether there is a more dangerous association, foundation, institution, or not -- it's a mystery. It will not be sufficient to exonerate the AKP (AKP) for forty-nine years now to ensure that the assets which have been handed over to the Red Moon and Yereza by the right of altitude are now free of charge. Because, you see, since this 2015 budget has been settled for certain accounts, it's going up to 902 million and 529 thousand dollars in the first nine months of 2014, when the aid to these organizations, the non-named corporations, the union, the institution, the foundation, the foundation, the foundation, went up to 449 million and 473,000 dollars in 2013. I mean, almost, with old money, nine months, including a quadrillion Kızılay and Greenay, which corporations, crates, trusts, unaccounted for. Of course, one day he will be questioned. Now, dear friends, when you call it the right to control here... of course, when you say the time is right... come, see the website of the General Directorate of the Foundation of Foundations, the definition of the foundation says: ▪ It is the system that predicts the transfer of resources and assets that are obtained with zeal, such as the foundation of a member of a family, to the foundation, to the foundation of a member of a family, to the foundation. This is nothing but the return of a family for forty-nine years of property, property, and property, which is a right of 77 million to the truth. It's simply to take public property by law, to devote it to a family's command. Look, look at the executives of the Green Moon Society. You'll see who their manager is, they've joined the association. Now, there's no foundation, no president of the foundation, no administration. You're trying to give away free, non-paymentable goods for forty-nine years, and this time to the Greenay Society and the Kızılay Society as a means of deceiving your own lawmakers, as an act of equality. This is the property of the people, the property of the orphans; you have no right to give it to them. Prohibited, forbidden. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0286	I submit the motions to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0169par0289	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0290	We've got a roll call. Mr. Akar, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tamayligil, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Longsırmak, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Light, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Clean. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in the 16th article, the motions are of the same nature, and I will work together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 16 of the current 688 Orders Numbered Law Proposal. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Selma Irmak Halil Aksoy One of the properties Erol Dora Demir Çelik Adil Zozani Abdullah Levent Ascendant The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Özçeri The signatures of the final motion of the same nature: Izzet Ceslim Sarı Vahaap Picks Haydar Akar Bihlun Tamayligil Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0170par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0323	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0171par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0325	Mr. Tuncel, will you speak?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0172par0326	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0327	I'm reading the reason: The tax system in Turkey is the most unfair, transparent tax system in their country, which has the constitution based on the world's modern principles of law and transparency. This tax system, based on taxes less than rich, poor or medium income, is a system of increased social tensions, unfair gains and attacks on social fault lines. The tax system, which should be handled as a whole, has not been dealt with due to the buildup of supporting capital in the AKP's government, but has been enriched by supporters by adding temporary substances to the legislation. These savings techniques have been created in a number of ways. One of these techniques is to open the way for capital buildup through the transfer of public resources to media institutions. In addition to this technique, its content, its payments, its shapes, its shapes, which are closed to the controls of the Court, the integration of public resources into capital savings is unacceptable, both in legal and ethical terms. The 16th article must be removed from the text of the law. Mr. Akçay, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0173par0331	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0168par0332	Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0173par0334	Mr. President, I have been promised our motion on the 16th Amendment. I salute you all. This, unfortunately, is about Reda and a pardon clause. Now, with the 16th article added to the Act of Taxes on Institutions and Taxes, all the cases filed against the Kızılay Association on behalf of economic enterprises, all the cases that have been imposed on behalf of the previous taxation period, all the cases that have been imposed on the basis of tax or tax cuts due to the tax and profit distribution of those taxes and temporary tax hikes and tax fines and all the cases that have been filed against them, are being waived by the end of the second month on which the law of the Taxes and the Taxes Act shall be issued. Who? Redaya. Why? There's no unknown, no probable cause. They'll probably say, again, as they say in the Commission: "Sir, strengthen the financial power of the Red." • An association that works for the public good of Redia is a value of the nation; who will abide by these laws and regulations, and who will abide by them? Now, these arrangements... most importantly, dear friends, if the money is gone, it's taken from the person responsible, replaced, money or a material value must be fulfilled, and the account is asked. But if you degenerate institutions, concepts, and some values, sometimes it's impossible to make up for, sometimes it's very difficult. Do you have any idea how much you've degenerated a distinguished institution like the Red Moon, especially in the last three or four years, with regulations related to the Red Moon, and so on? Whether you realize it or not, you degenerate it, degenerate institutions, concepts, values. On December 17th, 25th, after the corruption and before... Adeta, it's like he's gone. Besides, these are corruption by an organization that had become a network since 1994, as far as we're concerned, when we're looking at it concretely. In the end, these regulations show themselves that the AKP's view of NGOs, NGOs and organisations working in public interest, public resources, is to create allies and expose the ground of corruption. We see it as a reflection of the government's separative and aberrant attitude and behavior towards NGOs. So, for example, despite all our insistence over the years, not one thousandth of these privileged arrangements brought to the Redea, Greenaya, and the Greenay Foundation are brought to Darulaceze for the Darkfast. Why? And as far as we know, the president of this Darulazen is the prime minister. I wonder why. They probably don't think they've got it yet, the Darkfare, the Darlaceze. So I'm afraid it's impossible to tolerate this kind of situation. They use public resources, people use their goods. I curse here those who use public resources and people's goods, looters, eaters. As Izzet Çetin Bey said, I complete my word, saying, "Let there be no sin, let there be no poison." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0174par0341	Thank you. The other speaker is Mr. Ali Özgündün.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0175par0344	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my speech, I salute you all. Today is March 18th, the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Çanakkale. Hail to the martyrs who wrote the saga of "The Chanakkale Can't Be Passed." The martyrs did not die according to our faith, but they walked to Hakk. I bow with respect and gratitude to all the martyrs who have written the legend of Çanakkale, especially Gazi Mustafa Ataturk. The British and French fleet in Çanakkale would have supported Russia, their allies at the time, if they had crossed the throat, and then the Tsarial regime would not have collapsed, nor would there have been a regime change. Thus, it would have been even more difficult for us to give up the Battle of Salvation, because after the revolution in Russia, our eastern front was protected, even by the Soviet regime at the time, giving significant support in the war against imperialism. With this victory in Çanakkale, of course, the Turkish army also found moral support, especially to start the Liberation War with the nation, by regaining the prestige it had lost along with the Balkan wars. In this war, the Turkish nation has also produced a genius leader like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the genius leader of the 20th century. In this war, our nation lost over 100,000 teachers, landowners, medical and educated intellectuals. However, as these martyrs walked to Hakk, they saved the land as they walked to Hakk. So, thanks to them, today our glorious flag, the moon star, whose colour is drawn from the blood of the martyrs, is flying in the sky. Thanks to those martyrs, hundreds of thousands of minarets are being recited today. Again, thankfully, we continue our journey as a country of Islam, as a modern Turkish Republic, and as one of the most important, leader, leader in Islamic countries. Of course, it's not easy, 213,000 martyrs. Is the battle of Çanakkale a defeat or a victory in the name of the hero of the Battle of Çanakkale, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the hero of the Salvation War, and the disrespect of 213,000 martyrs -- even at the risk of it -- is the battle of Chanakkale a defeat? If they truly believe, it is our belief that 213,000 martyrs are not dead, they are still living inside of us, at least in respect of respect for them -- if they put their heads on the pillow and sleep in their homes today -- do not go into these discussions that honors them because of those martyrs. These arguments are tomorrow... and may Allah never again bring our country to a difficult situation like Çanakkale. However, in such a situation tomorrow, there may be no heroes to write the legend of Çanakkale. What was he saying, Gazi Mustafa Kemal? Let the enemy hold his dagger in the bosom of the city. I honor and thank the martyrs of Çanakkale. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit06spe0176par0354	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 688. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, we're going to start interviewing section two. The second chapter includes 17 to 36 ▪ articles, including temporary matter 1. On behalf of groups on the second chapter, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0177par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the second chapter of Law Proposal 688. I salute you all. In fact, we've been objecting to this bag of laws all along. Therefore, in this bag of legislation, the articles that concern the ministries, which have nothing to do with each other, and which should be based on a more comprehensive study in that area, are fed to this bag of legislation. And there are things about the second part that we generally think should not be in this law, that should be out. I will express our criticism of them. But before that, I'd like to make a point about the lawmaking technique. The law is so soulless and, in fact, only because it's organised according to the needs of investors, representatives of neoliberal policies, these laws have a very serious effect on the poor, the workers, the women, the young, because what really happens is not to organize social life over equality, freedom, justice, peace, but rather, how can we tear them apart, how can we deepen conflicts with each other, increase inequalities? Now, when we look from here, in fact, Turkey is defined as a social state, and we've just been talking about these community-profit organizations, to strengthen the foundations, which we've described as exactly what we're calling the public now, the AKP government and the existing laws. My personal and the definition of our group is the public, the people themselves, the society. In fact, what is called the public benefit is a law based on protecting the state, which is more for the benefit of the state. That's the problem. So when you say public, when you say public benefit, you mean the state, not the citizens who live here. Thus, for the sake of the state, any exploitation, any unlawfulness, any violation of rights becomes legal. That's what's been done today. So we need to change this public definition. So what you call the public is society itself. The government, which claims to be a social state, should actually be thinking about the safety of this public, the future of the public, in what I say, but it's a point that supports the government and some groups within the state. So one of the things that needs to be done is to ensure a citizen's right of residence, right of life, right of health, right of education. The AKP government is also deepening this. I'll tell you where. For example, in these materials, one of the main issues that we object to in the second chapter is the price of electrical loss. Now, there's been a lot of controversy over this price of electrical loss. You know, especially in the cities of Kurdistan, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Bismil, in many places, people, especially farmers, have returned to farmers after the privatisation of electricity management, with a very serious pressure on the public. If you remember then, the Kurds in particular, the Kurds, the Kurds, specifically the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, are not giving it to them. Or the Kurds are using illegal electricity. We had a period that led to a racist, segregating, nationalist speech. Yes, I mean, in this country, people are getting poorer, and you've done more harm by privatizing this area, leaving it at the mercy of the private sector. You've led citizens to rebel and act in order to profit from the private companies you've signed over to make your own profit. You've already brought to a point where we're going to pay for what they're using as fugitives, because they're rioters and activists, and they're seeking rights. But when you look at the real illegal electrical stuff, it's 10 times more than what those privatized companies that you're so keen to privatize do with their illegal use of electricity or their thefts. Really, if it's about electricity, which is also about ecological balance, not just electricity production, that sort of thing... you've done HES everywhere, you've plundered our nature in the name of electricity production everywhere. What is it? We'll meet Turkey's economic need for electricity. It's not like that, you can't afford it, you don't even distribute the resources that exist. These are very serious problems, so with this law, you're putting the price of electrical loss into the public, the private sector, but instead of protecting the citizen, you're protecting the bosses again. There's a very serious problem here, so that's where we object. Tomorrow, basic problems will arise because it is not prepared with a perspective that protects the civil rights, protects the citizens. How many people in this country have been charged with stealing or on record for using illegal electricity? What this government has to do is secure the rights of people who can't pay for it. If we are the social state, then you will guarantee the rights of the lowest, the poorest, the poorest, the poorest in this country, but all the practices here guarantee the rights of those who have more money, money, money, money... the rights of those who say, but the issue of these citizens is the issue. For example, another article is the 26th article. Dear friends, as we express our criticism of this 17th article, the 26th article is another point. For example, we discussed the shortcomings of urban transformation projects. We've just discussed once again what is really to be done in the Sultan Beyli specific. So, this project, called a local transformation, is an approach to Turkey that is causing serious urban problems, which is playing with its identity, its culture, its social, economic structure. So much so that the AKP, the land of the stone, is not enough to say gold. I mean, it's doing so much to get more money when you say "money." Now he's taking away the rights of the citizen. Because here, in the 26th article, with the new arrangement, it also opens the property of those who own private property to use, so it's trying to open them up through the tunnel. This is a very serious problem. I mean, the AKP government's policy has a negative effect on citizens. I mean, there's no such thing here. I mean, there are millions of homeless people in this country. In this country, people don't really stay in healthy home conditions, and instead of setting them up, there's a problem with how we convert what's available to us, you know, from underground to above, how we organize these areas for our own benefit. I mean, the land, the underground... I mean, the government wants to open it up with this thing -- it's going to own property on top, it's going to own private property -- it's going to own the lower usage, and that's another area of victimization. Therefore, it is imperative for us to object to the AKP government's policies here. It is important for those who defend the rights of the citizen, who oppose the democratic forces on the left. Other, friends, one of the laws we object to in this department is the Internet access issue. So, you know, once again, there was a law on Internet freedom about Internet access. He has returned from the Constitutional Court, but the AKP insists on creating a new area of power on the Internet. Why? Because he knows that through social media, you know, there's a new enlightenment, a new awareness. In all Middle East, representatives know, in fact, through social media, people object to the existing authorities, change the power. In the process that began in Tunisia and continued with Egypt, today in Syria, people came together through social media, through freedoms on communication. The AKP must have been afraid of this, and if it did, my power would be gone. He's taking over more, centralizing everything. I mean, we're actually dealing with an understanding that someone is spying on us, watching everyone, controlling everyone, and taking power over the subject through science. To rule over science is to condemn society, to suppress society and to unleash fear. Now, where there's democracy, freedom, is that really necessary? It's also a reflection of fear. The AKP government is afraid of its own power. Just as Mr. President went to that palace, he's afraid, if he's involved in protecting his palace, securing his palace, the AKP's government is trying to do something by restricting its own security, freedoms, the Internet access. International organisations have determined that Turkey has actually come back from Uganda, Zambia, Bangladesh and Rwanda, and has dropped 6 points from 2013 to today. But the situation is more dire. Again, at some point, I'd like to say something about these higher education institutions. The arrangements here have been shown in a more centralized, controlled approach that ignores the local initiative. Notice that there's a centrifugalism in all the arrangements for higher education that limit Internet freedom at work, in one hand, in one hand, and in one centre. It's also against the principles of democracy, to improve democracy in the local community, to bring people into the administration. All of this is a subject of criticism from our point of view, and we have motions on the matter, and we're going to express our views on the necessary issues. I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0178par0020	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0179par0021	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0178par0022	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0179par0025	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ms. Sebahat made a statement in particular called the provinces of Kurdistan. Now, based on that logic, some places are Kurdistan provinces, what's the rest of it? Are they Turkish provinces? The state of the Republic of Turkey has provinces, and the state of the Republic of Turkey, I believe, has no fundamental objection. It's based on common symbols, common values. The existence of Kurds in Turkey is a different matter, it is different to harden concepts on the border of political conflict in a language that may be provocative to some people by being called the provinces of Kurdistan. Please, let's take care of these. We're already in the process of a solution, everyone needs to pay attention; that's one. Secondly, objections can be said for the missing fugitive, criticisms can be voiced, but the real thieves are the companies who did it. You're trying to be Turkey's party, and I assume you're claiming that this country has as many companies as its citizens, and you're not going to be their party, so don't you have any sensitivity to them? How can you call them thieves and smugglers with such generalization? That's a very wrong approach, Sebahat Haným. The third says to help those who can't pay their electricity debt. Can we treat those who can't pay for it with a separate aid, a separate aid for those who can't pay for it? The EC PARTY government has signed a number of policies that have supported Turkey's lower social areas for thirteen years, paying from there, paying from there. Thus, sub-socialities are already being helped. Pays off the electric debt, pays off the water debt. An approach to paying per pencil is out of the question for any government. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0180par0030	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0180par0032	Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0033	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0182par0034	I made the announcement from my place.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0180par0035	He made a statement, and I'll give you my word on your location.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0036	Okay, I can do it from my spot.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0182par0037	Besides, I didn't pick on you, Ms. Sebahat.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0180par0038	He just made a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0039	I'll give you an explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0180par0040	You, too.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group Deputy President's objections, let me first say, of course, we're always talking about a process of solutions in Turkey, but how much we're considering according to the rules of the solution process, we're leaving it to our people's discretion. In this case, especially when the government doesn't take enough steps, the solution to the Kurdish problem, let's just leave it at 2005. There is no Kurdish problem, and now there is no Kurdish problem. Everyone appreciates their policies that have come to the point. When I say Kurdistan provinces, I think we're very hungry here, on this bench. Rather than making a distinction between the provinces of Turkey or Kurdistan, I considered it a definition, a geographical term. In that sense, both in Turkey and in Thrace, you can call it Anadolu, Mesopotamia, or Thrace, Anatolia, Mesopotamia - there are other definitions. Kurdistan, we call it Turkey. Of course, we'll continue to be the party of the masses, the oppressed, the workers everywhere. Make no mistake about that. And in the election, there will be consequences. Second: This, especially in the matter of electricity leaks, is what I object to the government's policies, which the Minister said, which led to that of the Kurds.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0183par0047	When did he say Kurds? You're lying!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0048	It's not right to generalize, I agree. What I really want to criticize is that what you're doing, what you're building, what you're building, is giving these private companies the basis for the use of illegal electricity there, and maybe the theft isn't the institutions, but that's exactly what this system is building. Let's figure this out. Let's discuss it together. How many times have we met with the Minister before, and how can we resolve this matter in a negotiation? So here's how we got together to discuss these issues together, and we're trying to discuss them together, so we can figure out how to deal with people when the police are interfering with the villagers with the pressure water. But the arrangement you're making here is another point, so it's not an arrangement that solves the problem, it's a way of covering up the problems that actually exist in order to fix the illegal electrical thing. That's what we object to. You like it, you don't like it, it's a different point.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0184par0049	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0181par0050	One last thing...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0185par0051	The Minister doesn't have a sentence that begins with the term Kurds. You're lying!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0184par0052	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0185par0053	He's lying!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0184par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0186par0055	It's obvious who told the lie!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0184par0056	Okay, thank you. You've given your answers. What else...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0187par0059	Cheap, gentlemanly words!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0188par0060	In a sentence... Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0189par0062	One minute...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0188par0063	Now, I want to make another point. Of course, we, the opposition, are trying to offer our own criticism, our own suggestions, to contribute. It's not just about opposition, it's about the right law, the right thing to do. And I mean, it's popular, it's unappreciative, it's something else. I didn't see the Mr. Group Vice President's approaches as much. And I thank you for the correction, at least in terms of explaining what we mean. But from here, I think he's lying! Let him look at his own past. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0066	Don't tease each other, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0191par0067	Who are you, to talk about my past?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0068	Congressmans, 780,000...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0069	Who are you?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0070	...square miles...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0071	Whoever betrays his people is of no use to anyone! You're rude!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0193par0072	You're talking cheap, cheap shit! How many carats are you?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0073	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0074	Shut the fuck up!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0193par0075	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0076	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0077	Don't be rude! Who are you? Who are you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0078	Mr. Tuncel, Mr. Metiner...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0079	Is he who does not benefit his people any benefit to other people?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0080	Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0194par0081	Know your place!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0082	You know your place!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0083	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0194par0084	Disrespectful!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0192par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0190par0086	...a piece of land over 780,000 square kilometers is named after the Republic of Turkey. In this land, 81 of our provinces are the province of the Republic of Turkey. I meant that for the record. Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0195par0093	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the second part of the current Law Proposal 688. On this occasion, I salute you all. The AKP continues to make arrangements to provide a runt instead of our nation's demands and expectations, to protect its allies and to save themselves. So much so that people's money can build a foundation and a foundation for private interests. Many issues are overlooked in what is described as "Torba" and "proposals." In particular, items intended to deliver to an address, to benefit someone are compressed into the bag of laws. I'm going to be filled with materials that are the same in this bag arrangement, and I'm going to talk about regulations and developments in the electricity market. Article 17 of this proposal provides legal infrastructure for the EPDK to be authorized to redefine the missing fugitive rates given to distribution companies, and therefore to pay more missing fugitive fees for those who pay their bills regularly. This arrangement is a clear confession that the government has failed to achieve its lost target of electricity. It is clear that while the electricity distribution companies are being privatized, the companies who won the tenders must take responsibility for the damage caused by the company that was given targets to reduce the missing fugitive and failed to catch the target. Clearly, the imposition of this damage to the citizen means violating the terms of the tender, thus confusing the tender with corruption. In addition, it is incompatible with the principle that consumers who have no responsibility for the creation of the missing fugitive should be left to pay directly for the missing fugitive. Someone's been using electricity illegally, and innocent citizens are paying the bill for it. What right do you get from a citizen to pay for electricity he doesn't use? Why are you making honest citizens pay for someone else's theft? It is against the principles of consumers, distribution system, and universal consumer rights of the Constitution, the law state of the Constitution. As a matter of fact, the Supreme Court's Judiciary General Assembly has stated that the loss of electricity energy during the transfer of electricity energy on May 21, 2014, and the transfer of electricity costs used by other people, used by stealing from subscribers who follow the rules, are incompatible with the state of law and justice ideas, preventing electricity loss or preventing theft, or monitoring theft, and collecting the price from it, belong to the owner of energy itself. Therefore, consumers cannot be held responsible for the power loss of electricity, and consumers cannot be compensated for the cost. Application and regulation are clearly against the law. Also, I'm asking the government and the Commission, why is this clause put into this proposal? The Commission shall discuss the amendment to the Electric Market Law submitted to parliament on 28/1/2015. Why is a substance in this bag when there's a bill like this? Or don't you know what you're doing? In order to prevent judicial decisions, unlawful practices are clearly imposed on the law, and even an interesting and freaky arrangement is being made by the distribution companies, as well as by the decision of the court and the consumer panel of judges for the price of reading and billing the missing fugitives, as well as by getting all the subscribers to pay the price of the court. You know what the motive is? Distribution companies are damaged, bankrupt. The AKP government is able to give this reason recklessly. That's a lot to take in! You know, it's the AKP government that collects distribution companies, and it's the AKP government that takes agricultural support for electricity debt. This is AKP's understanding; let not the allies suffer, but let the citizens suffer. I'm asking the government, weren't the companies who received the tender when the distribution companies were being privatized supposed to lower their missing fugitive rates in line with the targets given? If they fail to meet their obligations, they must bear the consequences. Trade is about profit or loss. Why are you looking out for distribution companies so publicly and so openly? As for the citizen, you're kicking his ass. A citizen who delays paying the electricity bill for a day or two will lose power, and the industrialist's facilities will stop, the farmer's field will be dehydrated, it won't be cared for, and a world of expenses will be asked to close. As a government, you think about the damage to distribution companies, but why don't you think about the damage to the industrialist, the farmer, the citizen? In recent years, electricity bills have become an important spending pen in the family budget, as well as an important cost of the business, the farmer and the industrialist. The prices taken unfairly from consumers are not limited to the missing fugitive. Many prices, shares, funds, taxes, and even taxes are being taxed on the amount of electricity consumption, as if it were imposed on a citizen. There's no justification for receiving a scale reading from consumers, a billing price, a 2% TRT share, and a 1% energy fund. The proposed law as the National Movement Party envisions that electricity subscribers do not receive a TRT share and Energy Fund with missing meter-reading and billing costs, which are expected to be discussed on the agenda of the commissions. In the event of law enforcement of these proposals, the family's electricity bill will be reduced by over 25 per cent, our farmer's cost will be reduced, our industrialist's competitiveness will increase. Dear MPs, whichever district of my electoral district of Konya, whichever neighborhood you go to, the most complaints are electricity. After the distribution company became privatised, the quality of service has dropped year after year, electricity cuts and fluctuations, lack of services, and the industry, the farmer, the citizen, has been frustrated. Because of power outages and electrical surges, the industry's equipment is failing, the farmer's meters are burning, the wheels are stopping, the production is losing. Power outages are increasing in winter. As a matter of fact, in the past November, about a foot of snow, one third of the city centre of Iconia was without electricity for a long period of time, even on organised industrial sites, production wheels stopped, many districts and neighborhoods were not powered, electricity companies were unable to reach failures. On the other hand, when the electricity debt is delayed for two days, cables can be cut from the outside, regardless of whether it's a factory or a facility or anything. Again, many subscribers have been subjected to blackouts as an excuse not to release the meter even though it does not owe electricity. There are challenges at the beginning of industrial, housing and agricultural production subscriptions, not being meticulous about service and quality, but when a new line or direct need requires a world of money, there is no need for investments. Even the AKP County President has admitted to the press that there have been serious problems with the distribution company in Konya, that they have been struggling to find solutions, that none of the commitments made by the distribution company have been fulfilled, that they have doubted the good intentions of the coming process, that there are unfair approaches rather than producing services. The expression of weakness is never acceptable. The state can always afford to prevent injustice and unlawful conduct. Instead of expressing your weakness, admit that you didn't go easy on him because he was your ally. Mr. Hodja, maybe the word "sympathetic" was scratched. Do you know who's the main partner of the distribution company in Iconia? If I tell people he's a dirty swearer, you'll all know who he is and who he's close to. Although I have constantly raised the issue of electricity in Iconia, the AKP government has never been a part of it. I'm afraid the Minister of Energy has responded to the questions I've submitted with the mouth of the distribution company. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0196par0111	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. İstanbul MP Bihlun Tamaylıgil will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] There's a clapping contest tonight.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0197par0116	Thank you, everyone who applauds and doesn't applaud. Mr. President, we've tied the knot in the first part of our bag law -- which is now traditional -- now that the second part is open, we're going to make an assessment of what's going to come out of this bag, and we're going to move on to the departmental materials. Of course, when you look at the bag of law, it's actually a democratic governance and legislature, plus it's highly ill-conceived in the logic of making a law based on law, and it's a choice that leads to confusion and confusion when you look beyond that. Not only the opposition parties are saying this, but Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of our Parliament, says it, so the logic of such legislation has come to light that we are facing a strange conclusion." he says. That's what Mr. Bulent Arinc is saying, so it's not just a contradiction that the opposition has expressed. Now, when we're making law, there's got to be legal certainty, legal credibility, legal trust, and there's got to be a law in the system, but unfortunately, the bag can't find a solution with the law, and the bag is traditionally used to us in other countries, and it's such a mess that what comes out of what bag is in it, what is in it, what is in it, what is in it, and what is in it, is a process that is drowning in the legislation. Now, look, there are independent organizations, they're doing evaluations on Turkey, Turkey's grades are dropping every day. Why is he falling? Because of the practice of law and execution, we face a picture of a process dominated by freedom, independence and oppression. Mr. Bulent Arinc recently attended a meeting of the United Nations Council of Human Rights. The highest number of questions came, with a record number of questions, and the questions asked here questioned how freedoms were restricted in Turkey, including laws and practices. Now, in this environment, we're discussing a bag of legislation and the ingredients in it. So, you're looking at separate laws, decisions being brought together, discussed in Plan and Budget, given up, pulled back, called back, called back, let's add something else. It's called, "Let's add something else." It's called, and it's put in front of us. Now, at the end of every legislature or so, at the end of every legislature, at the end of the last days of Parliament's work, we are working to get something out of the bag. What have we come up with here, in this department? One of them is that when the Energy Market Board comes to 2015, when the energy distribution companies, which have been priced according to the missing fugitive rates that the EPDK (EPDK) calculated from 2011 to 15 years ago, come to 2015, because the account is wrong. Look, we're going to heal the missing fugitive here, we're going to invest, we're not going to find resources. For one thing, it's a violation of the Public Contracts Act. He described very clearly how to make the contract there, or in what topics the contract can change without bringing additional financial loads. We are now making a law by choosing not to recognize another law by law. So what we're seeing here is that three distribution companies are saying that there's been a loss in one of them, especially at $400 million, and we're making an arrangement that we're taking over the public. And who do we charge for that? And unfortunately, we pay the bill to the citizen who regularly goes and pays his debt. But the judiciary is making a decision on this, the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has decided on the illegality of this issue, and a process of repayment is being carried out. Now, taking into account all of these things: the responsibility of all of us as lawmakers is to make a law here, not in the interest of the public, not in response, but in order to put out an emergency, but in a specific strategy and a goal. Otherwise, we can put a patch on a bag and a law every minute here. In another context, it's an organizational law on loan housing, or rather the Ministry of Youth and Sports. This is where the Offices of the Centre for Loans are closed, replaced by the district managerships. The problem with dorms here is that around 380,000 young people can now be granted housing in Turkey. It would be much more realistic for us to do a proportional comparison between the number of students studying in Turkey and the number of countries missing here, before we change their administration. The other issue is dorms; state dorms, private dorms that belong to the Finnish Credit and Housing Institution, a place that does not have two heads, and that should be considered in this arrangement. The other thing is, we've passed a law on publicisation, or we've forgotten the tunnel, we put the cable car on top, and we've left the tunnel underneath, so we add a tunnel clause to the law. Is this appropriate by property or by the Law of Publicisation? No. We've already made our appeal as CHP regarding the violation of the Constitution of publicisation in which you forgot the tunnel. Before he comes out, let's add a tunnel. Let it be, once the right of ownership of people here is determined in both the right of property and the civil law, and when it is determined by the civil law, the limits of property, which is owned both in and above, have been established, and the right of ownership in the European Convention on Human Rights have been established. Plus, when we're doing publicisation, we act in a law that ignores the relevant clauses of the Publicisation Act, bringing exceptions here, blocking the times when people will face today or will face future financial or damage. Now, here, the Constitution, of course, 13th article, is protected, but there are certain exceptions; these exceptions are determined by the law, but it is said that the Constitution must not violate its word, its spirit, its need for democratic society, nor the principle of measure. Let me give you a little example. Mr. Hodja, there are tunnels in Zonguldak, Mithatpaşa and Sadaz. A stick of dynamite is being thrown, people are on the streets. Well, we're making tunnel for these people. Damage? Well, don't sit in your house. How will it be explained? The fact that you're looking at a place where you're building a tunnel... Now, one issue is the restrictions related to the Internet. Now, this is the story of the snake since February 2014. The law, Mr. Gul, the President, says I approve of it by certain rules. All right, Mr. Gul. His job is over, let's ignore the trial again, let's make an arrangement, let the Constitutional Court cancel it, and then, 60 days later, it'll be published in the Official Gazette, but in the meantime, let him do what he wants, let him do what he wants, and let him do what he wants, and cancel the Constitutional Court -- and in the meantime -- we bring the proposals, as if it were a bill -- our ministers are making the relevant issues, which are clearly, they're all prepared and they're coming as a proposal. Now, you're looking at it, and it says, "Mr. Secretary, we're doing a more comprehensive work, we're making arrangements. What are we doing? Here, let's consider what the Constitutional Court has decided to call off, but in doing so, let's not lose sight of other topics. See, the first one: you block the right to the defense -- which is called the right to defend -- by putting four hours into accessing this Internet. This right is a constitutional right, it's being blocked. Second: The information presented in the operation of information and communication, which is called traffic, is that you plug them in, personal rights, personal rights, and personal rights of individuals. Don't worry about the other stuff. But, of course, it's no surprise, we've also seen from an indictment that Mr. President has made out that some of us have found out how the 77 million have been printed. Now, look, you're bringing in a substance, and we're going to hide personal data. What are you going to do? There's no definition of how long, where, how much data is collected here. Let's write it down, let's hold it here. Dear friends, it's a great responsibility to make laws, to make laws, and to be lawmakers. In recognition of this, I hope that one day we will all manage to make the law together, on a basis that will not be contrary to the Constitution. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0198par0137	Thank you, Mr. Tamayligil. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on behalf of him. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0199par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I always believed that the Republic of Turkey was a state of law until I became a member of parliament, and I really had such a great idea. But after I came to the National Assembly, I had an idea about a state administration in the past, as I was disappointed there, when I came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where there was no law and law, unfortunately, I was equally disappointed here. Now, you all know that the Great National Assembly of Turkey is a parliament that serves as Turkey's largest legislature. Now, if you don't obey the law here, woe to the Justice Department, I mean, to them. Now, of course, justice and law are not the same thing, but let's face it, if you're a state of law, you have to act in accordance with the law. Now, look, we say that there should be a government in accordance with the Charter of Turkey in the Grand National Assembly because the Constitution of our Civil Charter, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should not be out of it. Now, here comes the bag of laws. The bag law doesn't exist in the Charter. Now, if you think about it from the normal 81st article, it starts with the proposals of the law and goes in many ways to the basic law. So, how long does this law apply to the fundamental law in Article 91? It doesn't fit. Because the basic law, certain laws, which are prepared on certain issues, is the basic law, but how many are there? It's like soup. In fact, I'll tell you a little bit different: the bag isn't the law, it's all patched up. Everything, you added it, you made a bundle, and you're going to claim that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0200par0146	It was also in the 57th government.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0199par0147	Now, dear friends, no matter what government, I'm telling you something.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0200par0148	I've had one before.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0199par0149	Look, whatever happens, I'm telling you, it's not true. Now, what's right here? What's right is that the law is prepared, brought in in all fours and passed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, what are you doing? Look, how many times has this changed about the Internet? But what you're saying is: "Ya, we've left this place incomplete, let's finish this." And then you're saying: "Ya, this is the wrong thing to do, so let's make it right. There's one thing you've been saying in your own mouth: when it comes to returning to the public council's universities, they can't go back to the official universities. Now you're saying: we removed this in 2004, so let's bring it back now. The same way, at the same time, we reduced the five-year term as a deputy in the People's Assembly to four years. You're saying, "Let's go back to five years. Why? If it's so true, why are you changing it? Why didn't you think this through and now you're changing it? Look, what we call a legislature, the Turkish National Assembly, is not a piece of cake. There are serious evaluations going on here. The matter of change is considered to be a four-fold law, but you put it in a bag, or you put it in a bundle, where you put it into a pile of colored patches and stuff it in it. And then the rope of one patch dissolves, and the next thing you know, it explodes, and you're like, let's not re-enact it, let's refill it. Now, as a matter of fact, there are the same things in these laws. You'll be in the same position tomorrow. You're building foundation universities, but you're in violation of the Constitutional Article 131 of the University of the Foundation. So the trustee committee of the foundation universities is actually taking on some of the duties given by the Constitution. Is that even possible? This will be cancelled tomorrow, what will you do? You're going to say, "It's wrong, let's fix it. Why don't you fix it now, and then we'll fix it again?" That's when you lose the title of law state to the country. It's a shame, isn't it? I mean, why don't we just sit tight and make this law seriously? Now you're saying: "We're building a foundation for Green and Red." Okay, very good, let's set it up, and even give financial support to Greenea. Because he's dealing with certain issues, public health issues. Okay, well, I appreciate that, but this trust you're building, you're not writing about who the trustees will be. What are their duties? Why don't you put in an inspection? So we're going to give you 15 million. You say, you don't have control. What kind of a job is that, brother? How can you not control the money you're putting in? I mean, how does that understanding get through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? So, in such matters, I regret to say again that I am disappointed, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0201par0156	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0202par0157	Standing and resisting where everyone is sitting is essential.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0201par0158	I'm clapping for you this time, Master, and I'm clapping for you. On behalf of the other speaker, Ankara MP Mr. Izzet Cetin. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0203par0162	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have been sworn in on my own behalf in the second chapter of the underlying Law Bill 688 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, really, the arrangements for this bag of laws have now come to a point where they can't go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on We're not tired of telling, you're tired of listening until this hour. Indeed, when I looked at it, in the first part of this arrangement, we left behind a lot of arrangements in the evening from a university without autonomy, without creating a new foundation, or Redish, until we took advantage of the institutional identities of Greenbear, institutions, in other ways. And now to re-open a ruling that the Constitutional Court called off, on the other hand... privatisations would be very nice, it would be good, everything would be rosery, employment would increase, efficiency would go down, electricity would go down, but it turned out to be a total thalan here. Now, after the Power Market's privatisation of the EPDK/ power distribution, there were no investments or expansions in the jobs taken by 21 companies, their work seemed to be nothing more than just reading the meter and putting the bill on the citizens. Now, because companies who take those risks knowingly in risky areas are a subsidiary firm, because they're the pool media and the company, they're the pool media and they're the source of the pool, an EPDK has been drafted to make a new arrangement for them to be favoured, to reduce their missing-smuggle ratios to the public. Guys, maybe I'll take a word in person on the 17th article, but... Now, from 1985 to 2014, the privatisations in the energy market or across Turkey produced $62.2 billion in revenues, but the cost to Turkey put 533,000 workers at the door. The contract of employment is 533,000 people. Of course, the privatisation of 35 per cent of the revenues obtained from these privatisations from the energy market; TEDASHa 12.8; EUASK 7.6; block sales $1.4; $22.6 billion from ADUAS to 21 companies were divided into a total of $22.6 billion. Looking at these companies, who were given one third of the total sales of 18 distribution companies, which amounted to 13 billion, the Limak-Kolin-Cengiz trio, the other one third to the group of Sabancı, and the owners of the remaining one-third to those who transferred money to the pool, such as Çik, Kiler, Interior, Aksa. Now, it's not a fair approach to stand up and try to lay down their insatiable ambitions, and the lost fugitive's price on the citizen, against the Supreme Court's decision, against the final verdict. In this arrangement -- and I'm saying because the time is too short -- indeed, we've been part of the regulation of the Department of Youth and Sports, which has been changed in Article 638 of the Law. It's a flaw in our understanding that private homes remain under national education while the management of the public dorms is given to YURKUR. He needs to be reconsidered. One of the main problems is the valuable friends -- Mr. Tamayligil mentioned -- before that, in the bag bill that went into effect on 9 September, we brought in the citizens' property, their property, the underground tunnel, the rail system; above the ground, the cable car, etc., etc. Now -- that's the exact concept -- we forgot about the tunnel, we thought we'd make a tunnel, find a way to victimize the citizen without paying any price. These aren't things that coincide with rights, so the state shouldn't victimize the citizen. The arrangements for this matter are not correct. But what's missing is that the amendment to access to the Internet, which the Constitutional Court has cancelled, is to be recommitted in front of the Assembly. This bill is really freaky. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0204par0172	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. We're 15 minutes out. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system to ask questions. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0205par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you have any work to compensate the victims of our citizens who have been charged with a violation of their commitment under the terms of the Enforcement and Bankruption Act? How many of our citizens are still in prison under pressure? How many of our citizens are on the run to avoid going to prison? I'd appreciate it if you'd share that information with the public.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0204par0179	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0206par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Under the name of the missing fugitive, in Turkey, an honest citizen, a citizen who pays for electricity on time, a citizen who doesn't fail, and a citizen who doesn't steal electricity anywhere for years has been paying for it. Again, looking for new formulas to continue this. It's not a very accurate method, and one of the most important problems in recent years is the electricity spikes that have been going on for the last three or five months. There's been a serious increase in electricity. Mr. Secretary has explained how many times there will be no increase in natural gas, even a reduction. Although he said, there is a serious increase in natural gas in my city, Gaziantep, and in every province. We'd be happy to have an explanation for this.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0207par0183	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0208par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a Kent House founded in the district of Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality. The Kent Housing project was set up with the idea of hosting small-income families, homeless people without homes. However, the high-ranking executives and the former mayor of the ruling party, who worked at the Kopeeli Metropolitan Municipality, have been sent by the ministry for four months on charges of some irregularities, and investigation has been launched. Eight months have passed since the investigators have finished their examination, but the people of Kopeeli have learned nothing about it, they haven't shared it. Do you know anything about this? I'd appreciate a heads-up. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0209par0187	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0210par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that a company that has received the electricity job in Southeast Anatolia has failed to meet the terms set in the contract and has applied for governorship of the province, and has been released from its obligations by taking an article in which there is no public security in this province? If it's true, which firm is it, where is it? A second question is that two journalists were seized in Adana yesterday because of their criticism of Mr. President, and their computers and cell phones were seized. How do you view this as legal? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0211par0192	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0212par0193	Mr. Secretary, with this bag of legislation, the privatized power distribution companies are being given new opportunities. You're making a law, especially for companies who can't keep a target on a missing fugitive -- like getting a citizen to pay for it when he's supposed to pay it out of his pocket -- which makes it pretty clear you're looking for ways to get the last penny out of a citizen's pocket. The money that these power distribution companies, which you have so much access to, have left in private during privatisation of the privatized power distribution companies, was later discovered in inspections and investigations were launched. What's the outcome of these investigations and courts? Is the government's money returned from the vaults of these power distribution companies? If it's taken, what's that number?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0211par0195	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0213par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, earlier, the United States House of Representatives did what the United States House did today, and with the signature of 74 senators, censorship on the media in Turkey has been asked to condemn the pressure on the press, and the US State Department has been asked to act on it. The pressure of international forces on Turkey is growing, and the reason is because of these unfair attitudes towards the media, which are significantly towards the press. What do you think of this as a Minister of Justice? You're a minister who needs to be neutral, but this issue is getting more and more important; it's important, so your attitude is important, and I'd like to take a comment on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0214par0201	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0215par0202	Mr. Secretary, solar energy or wind energy is allowed up to 1 megawatt unlicensed. Instead, the citizen has to invest there to get the wind energy his business needs. Why is this megawatt limited, and why is such a limit set? It can put up a two-way pole and meet the need for electricity with a pole, and plant a couple of poles side by side to cover it with a single pole, instead of spending money on these poles taken from foreign companies. Does your government have this kind of work? Will you be working on raising this megawatt scale?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0214par0203	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0216par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. On 1 December 2014, 2,831 miners were laid off at Manisa Soma, and more than a hundred days later than that day, our workers were unable to receive severance from the firm. The reason for the company's failure to pay severance is that it is blocked into assets and bank accounts by the Turkish Coal Company. And on 1 December 2014, the government's spokesman, Mr. Bkent Arinc, stated that we are not going to leave the workers hungry and out in the open, we are going to solve this issue. Later, when workers arrived in Ankara, when they visited all political party groups in parliament, they also expressed the issue. I want to know if the government has any interest in this severance package. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0217par0208	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Your response time is seven and a half minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0218par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the question of Mr. Light was whether or not we had a study of the Law on Disposals. About ten days ago, we set up a science commission in the Ministry on the Law on Expension Bankruption, and everything, including the structural change of the executive bankruptcy organization, began to be investigated by this science commission. Hopefully, we'll have a new law of bankruptcy. It was asked whether he was currently convicted in prisons and if he had a number of prisoners. I don't have that information right now, so I can give it to you in writing. Mr. Yilmaz said two journalists were searched in Adana's homes, their computers were confiscated. I got that news, too. The matter of the preliminary investigation is to wait for the outcome of an investigation carried out by the state's attorney. And We will tell you in writing what the outcome will be. In addition, Mr. Kuşoglu said the US Senate has made a decision that it wants the pressure on the media in Turkey to be condemned. It's probably today's news, and I'm not a part of it. I'll answer any other questions in writing. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0219par0217	Thank you. Now it's your turn, Mr. Horseman, because we have time. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0220par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I know very well that the government is asked questions here, but if you'd like, I'll ask a question that concerns you, and you can answer it. Today, media reports have reported that the Parliament's ruling club has been disinfected, that it has been disinfected against swine flu, that it has not been visited by the opposition club. I want to know how true that is, one. And how right do you think it is for a government in the House to take such a precaution in Anamur, Mersin, anywhere, that doesn't take any precautions against swine flu? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0221par0225	Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0222par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as we know, the electricity bills are extremely high because in addition to the price of electricity use, taxes, funds and various cuts...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0223par0228	Mr. Secretary doesn't listen to questions.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0222par0229	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0224par0230	I don't suppose you're going to answer any questions.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0222par0231	Mr. President, can you start again, please?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0232	Here you go. We're listening.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0224par0233	Not you, he will answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0234	I don't understand why we have to reboot.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0226par0235	Mr. Secretary here, we'll ask Mr. Secretary, we don't understand how this is going to work. I mean, is that even a thing, guys?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0236	Well, Mr. Türeli, I said why don't you ask your question, I don't understand it, I'm just asking.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0227par0237	No, we don't understand who we're going to ask.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0228par0238	The minister is talking there.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0239	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0229par0240	Electric bills used in houses also apply electricity costs, as well as various taxes, funds, and cuts. We already know about this missing illegal cost, and the Supreme Court has made decisions about that, but other than that, there's a rate of distribution, meter-reading, retail service price in order; the cost of transmission systems, as well as energy funding cuts, the TRT share, electricity consumption tax, and VATs, and electricity bills in a very serious sense when they're uploaded. In an answer to a written question motion that I've given you earlier, I was told that the efforts to remove these were ongoing by the Minister of Energy. Are there any of these studies, at what stage? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0242	Oh, Mr. Horseman, by the way, you've raised a question for me. At this point, there's no law against asking me such a question, but I'm looking into it, and I'll let you know.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0230par0243	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0225par0244	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0231par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, is there any study of shortening execution times, by the way, such a thing? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0232par0248	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0233par0249	We will answer Mr. Türeli's question about electricity bills in writing. There is no work at our Ministry at this time concerning Mr. Kusoglu's question about shortening the execution times.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit07spe0232par0251	No more questions. Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Now the motions have come, I believe, to the Republican People's Party's motions. I'm taking a 10-minute break from the merger to distribute the motions to other groups.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0232par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 688. The commission is here. The government is here. In Article 17 there are three motions. Since all three of the motions I'm going to read are the same property, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 17th Amendment proposal of the current 688 rows. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüszel Demir Çelik Selma River The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Scholar Light Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu The signatures of the final motion of the same nature: Bihlun Tamayligil Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı İhsan Özkes chooses Vahaap
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0232par0028	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0029	Mr. President, Article 87 of the Civil Code is open. In this Parliament, as long as I know it, the motions are read according to the order of the arrival, while all the motions are read -- already in the order of the short-controvertion -- are read by the same individuals. That was the app. Now you're creating a new drink, an app. It's against the rules.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0232par0030	What is it?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0031	The motions must be read according to the order of arrival. The Civil Code is very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0235par0032	What's the content of the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0033	I mean, if you continue with this attitude, I'm going to demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0236par0034	They're all the same.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0035	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0036	Mr. Altay, in this way, we've processed a lot of motions, and in your way, we've processed a lot of motions. That's applied, and that's applied.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0037	No, Mr. President. I've been here 12 years, I've never seen this way.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0038	Well, I'm lying, okay.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0039	I'm lying too, okay.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0040	No one's lying.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0041	It's a formal debate... This procedure...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0042	It's happening like we said, and it's happening like we do.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0234par0043	No, sir, I didn't see it happen.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0044	I've talked about it with the Laws and Decisions, and they've given me information.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0238par0045	As Mr. Altay says, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0046	And it's happening like you said, and what I'm saying is, it's like this app that we're doing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0239par0047	Mr. President, how? This app is unique.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0048	I mean, your request... No, I've never seen anything like it here. If you start talking about it...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0239par0049	I didn't witness it, honestly, I didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0050	... It's like I'm making this up in my head, like I'm doing it here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0239par0051	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0052	In past reports -- I've been here for two years -- that's how it's been done. One of the same motions is read, and the others are read. But if you say "separation," we're on the 17th article, so far we've done this practice, and then we'll do your practice. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0239par0053	Okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. But I also want the law's past application protocols.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0054	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0240par0056	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0057	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0241par0058	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0059	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party... It is imperative that this clause, which has been on the agenda of Turkey for a long time, be removed from the text of the law, containing a provision for the price of the loss of electricity, which is used by the AKP's government as an enemy against some of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Because first of all, it's the privatisation of the largest illegal and missing electricity service for the people of Turkey. As a matter of fact, in close ties with privatisation companies, the AKP's power opened the way for this arrangement through anti-enemy of people in Eastern and Southeast regions aimed at managing perception. The purpose of the AKP officials' statements has come up with this clause. The goal is to enrich companies by accusing them of the identities the 90-year-old state has set up as the other. With this arrangement, it is unacceptable for the missing fugitive to come out of the public, the public. Handing over the public to the mercy of private companies is the seal of the bankruptcy of the state institution within state theory. For such reasons, the clause must be removed from the text of the law. Who will speak on the other motion, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0242par0064	A scholar's light.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0237par0065	Dear scholar Light will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0243par0068	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good night. I have taken a pledge on the motion that we have made to remove the 17th amendment from the proposal text of Law Proposal No. 688. This clause, first of all, has been transferred to our Commission as a transfer commission to our Commission, but, unfortunately, it has not been brought to the Commission, and therefore, without the Commission's opinion taken, with all the other commissions, we will not be able to discuss it because of the intensity of our work by the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission. Therefore, I would like to first express that this practice is not right and what has been done is wrong. So, what does the item say? Until the end of 2016, the Council is authorized to redesign non-technical losses in distribution areas above the country's average, taking into account different arrangements from other distribution areas, taking into account the previous year's performances of target missing-rate rates, and resolving them, including the following periods of practice, says the Council. So he's authorising the EPDK. The article clearly states: Mr. Minister says that while he was making this arrangement into a bag of legislation, as he discussed another bill under the Power Market Law -- which was reflected in the media two days ago -- in the region, in the southeast, the PKK, the terrorist organization -- on account of its approval -- the state of Turkey is not our state, do not pay the electricity fee. We felt the need to organise such a bill for him, as he said, as the solution process continues. I'm afraid that everyone in the region heard that AKP government, the terrorist organization, had heard that its money was being used by electricity in the region, that everyone in the region, had heard by the minister, that they had been sufferinged by electricity. Now, let's go through the year of the elections, the year of the elections, let's authorise the EPDK, let's let the EPDK continue to exploit the money that the distribution companies that exceed the rates they've already targeted, by posting it to the public, or sharing it to 77 million people, but, on that side, let's keep our company safe, let the PKK people continue to use illegal electricity, legalize illegal electricity. For that, he must withdraw from this bill immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me tell you how grave this situation is with the official data of the Ministry. Upon my question, the Ministry released the latest data, distributed it to our members of the Commission. As of the end of 2013, a total of 32 billion kilowatts of energy was a missing fugitive, with more than 60 per cent of it happening in the area of the Tigris, Vangölu EDAŞ and Aras EDAŞ distribution companies, a total of 16.5 billion kilowatts of energy in the 3 distribution zones, and the price was around 3.5 billion euros. In other words, I'm saying that if the government had given the effort there to prevent this illegal electricity, we might have been more profitable for the establishment of a nuclear power plant that we're constantly arguing about. With the figures of 3.5 billion TL 2014, the Turkish nation must pay 77 million dollars for the electricity used illegally in the southeast. This is an indication of how wrong this substance is. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we expect our motion to be supported, and we say that the clause must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0244par0076	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0245par0077	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0244par0078	There is another speaker, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0245par0079	No, it's not the same thing, it's not the same thing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0244par0080	There's also CHP.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0245par0081	It's not the same. It's not ours.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0246par0082	It's not the same.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0245par0083	Don't you read 17?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0247par0084	No, it's the same thing.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0246par0085	It's not the same nature, it's the removal.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0245par0086	Yeah, you're right, it's a transcript.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0247par0087	Yeah, who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0246par0088	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0247par0089	Here you are, Mr. Izzet Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0246par0090	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 17th Amendment. I salute you all. Dear friends, as I just said in my speech on behalf of myself, I really think Mr. Light has pointed to this in his speech just now -- it's not the kind of thing that suits Congress. In 21 distribution companies, the missing numbers of three distribution companies in particular want to collapse on the public. The reality of the situation, the number, is that despite the decision of a 3.5 billion-dollar fugitive judge, the citizen is wanted to be brought down on him. Look, he says in the Supreme Court's decision... he wants to cancel the missing fugitive, retail sales service, meter reading, transmission system... These correspond to 21 percent of the price paid by the citizen on an electric bill. What does the Supreme Court say? It is not in harmony with the legal state and the justice ideas to go on the road to collect electricity costs used by theft -- such as illegal electricity costs -- from subscribers who follow the rules. Now, dear friends, it is not right for us to attempt to make such a decision while we are still trying to arrange these tasks for the EPDK (e.g. after the election) for the missing fugitive costs. As a matter of fact, during the past 2014, when many places in Southeast Anatolia, especially in Eastern Anatolia, and these companies deliberately extended their reading time and started sending up their electricity bills, the president of the EPDK said: "If necessary, we will not take into account the cost of November-December, especially December." I mean, that's not the main reason. Now, as I said earlier in the episode, the electricity distribution business has been privatized. When it was being privatized, it was said that electricity distribution companies... The rules have been set, what the missing fugitive costs are going to be... So, the international average is 8-8.2; here it is, from 18 to 15 percent of our percentages to 15 percent. Last week, a friend of yours told me that there were 2 per cent missing fugitives. I mean, it's a good thing it's up to 15 percent, but it's still almost twice as much as the international average. Now, when this tender was being made, these companies knew that the missing fugitive ratio, that the area was risky. Let me tell you one more time who these firms are for the record. There's a contractor who swears at people, there's companies who throw money at you in your pool. Who are those companies? Genghis Construction, Limak, Kalyon Group, Arik Holdings, İbrahim Chechn (IC) Holdings, Winners, Grandkids, Companies. These are companies favoured by your governments. Anyway, they got it at a very low price during that privatisation. Now they didn't invest, they didn't expand, they didn't expand; I just told you, what they do is they just read a meter and dominate the money in the citizens' pockets. Making it a rule now is not the right approach, dear friends. So we think this substance should definitely be removed. In addition, it is incumbent upon the Parliament, especially in accordance with the decision made by the Supreme Court on the cost of this missing fugitive, that it should be handed over to the citizen's pocket that it should be charged by the citizens in the way that they should be charged with paying their bills from now on. What we really need to do is work on it. It would be extremely accurate to remove this material from the material text. He's taking the risk, he's taking the money, he's making a profit, he's playing games to get hurt, he's still not getting enough, it's in your interest to throw money in the pool. So, I say give up, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0098	Thank you. I will submit the motions to your votes... III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0249par0102	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0103	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Turtieli, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Sütütü, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Halaçoğlu. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently in session, 688 rows. Following the declaration "coordinating" in the Article, the phrase "planning and controlling" is added. Aytun Çiray Sinan Aydın Aygün İhsan Özkes Haydar Akar Bkent Kuşoğlu İstanbulYeğeli Ankara Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to article 18 of the current Law Proposal 688 rows. Erkan Akçay Necati Özensoy Seyfettin Yilmaz Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Ali Halaman İzmir Adana "The ministry is authorized to establish a participating and inclusive youth policy, to develop legal legislation on youth, to establish a common definition of youth and strategy among institutions, and to determine the mechanisms for youth participation." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0250par0126	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0127	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0251par0128	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0129	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0252par0130	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0131	I'm reading the reason: When they are provided with sufficient social opportunities and a social-inflicted youth policy is prepared, young communities may be an important factor that speeds up socioeconomic development. There is no common youth definition and strategy among youth-related institutions in Turkey. Institutions limit the definition of youth to the youth groups they serve. For example, the word "young" is a limited description of students for the National Education County Administrations, individuals under the age of 18 who are under state protection for the Family and Social Policy Administrations, and groups that they take scholarships and so on for municipalities. The failure of youth policies in Turkey to have the voice of youth in preparation and practice, the absence of planning, decision-making and implementation processes, the failure of young people to have a higher organisation (the absence of a national youth council) and the failure to provide information exchanges in Turkey are a serious challenge to the government and all other public institutions and institutions as an equal partner in the implementation of youth policies. Turkey must establish a participating and inclusive youth policy, develop relevant legal legislation and determine the mechanisms for youth participation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently in session, 688 rows. Following the declaration "coordinating" in the Article, the phrase "planning and controlling" is added. Haydar Akar and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0253par0142	He doesn't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0143	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0254par0144	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0248par0145	Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0255par0148	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise on the 18th Amendment, regarding our motion. It's an organization for the Department of Youth and Sports. In fact, I just told you, we do it a lot, we make mistakes, we make laws, we make laws. This is one of them. It was done in a hurry. A decree was issued at the time; now it was seen that it was not working, it was corrected. In fact, however it is done, there are many different issues that need to be done about the matter because there is no sports policy in Turkey, there is no such thing as the spread of sports. We have performance sports, so the theme sports, the kind of sports we can watch or watch on TV, the kind of sports we don't do ourselves; football, basketball, and so on. We don't do sports ourselves. We're a 78 million-dollar country, half of which is young. At least Turkey should have over 20 million licensed athletes. But we have a very, very low-level athlete. At the neighborhood level, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not been widely established. There are many flaws, unfortunately, that can't be found, that can't be done, that can't be done, that can't be done, that can't be done, that can't be done. It's very low-level. Look, Ankara Metropolitan, the population is growing, but in many districts of Ankara, there are fewer sports facilities than Erzurum, or Thrace. It needs to be done a lot more. You know the West, the facilities that are built are not such large stadiums. We're usually scheduled to build big stadiums. There'll be more small sports facilities than them, people, young people, they'll go, they'll spend time. Would it be this uncomfortable, especially in the southeast, if we could build sports facilities? In this unemployment, young people don't even have places to play sports, places to spend time with. And all of it, as I just said, we've divided into theme sports, we've only developed navigational spores. We even made a mistake about them. Today, the football audience is divided into political pieces. They have this thing in the same team, like one section supports 1453, and the other is against it. We put it into politics, we see it all through the political eye. Unfortunately, that's how we started seeing sports. Our Minister of Environment and Urbanism was just sitting here representing the government. I don't know, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, there's urbanization in some places, there's more than 20, there's progress, populations are growing, populations are falling, there's constant shortages. I was wondering if the sports complexes around here are right about the development of their facility, our Minister of Sports is here. There's a significant flaw in this matter. Other than that, I'd like to make a point. We said for a long time that we need dorms constantly in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we said it was clear. We suggested investing in this issue, suggesting that the budget should be increased over and over again, but unfortunately, that was not considered. Look at the records, we often made these suggestions in the time of Mr. Suat Sword, but no, it's enough. And then after this parallel-cam thing came out, the dorms were put back on weight, re-investmented, rented, but it was too late, it had to be done a long time ago. And that's what it's about. A master's plan should be made regarding sports, and serious work must be done according to that plan. It must be co-operated with the local authorities. There's a lot to be done together. It's very important. At this hour of the night, in these five minutes, I wanted to share them with you in such headlines, but it's a very important issue, youth and sports policy and installation. Hopefully, there will be more proper work done, not only will it be organised by the Youth and Sports Organization. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0256par0155	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 19. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Şeker of Rahmi Love Ali Serindağ Haydar Akar Ihsan Özkes The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 19-638. The staff listed on the 3- (1) Ekli (3) has been cancelled and removed from the relevant section of the Court of Law No. 190. The personnel listed on the list of additional (4) and (5) were included in the additional chapters of the provisions under the Law Law No. 190. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 19 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0257par0174	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0256par0175	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0258par0176	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0256par0177	Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0259par0180	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 19th Amendment. I salute you all. Now, of course, there are regulations for the Agency's Law on Youth and Sports and there are regulations for the Office of Higher Education Credit and Housing. In fact, there are some aspects of these arrangements that we find positive. For example, the Department of Youth and Sports is being shut down, and I want to say that we find it positive. But I would also like to say that we don't find the organizational arrangements that are compressed into the random bag of laws accurate because I think it points to the government's policy weakness, and it also shows that it's not stable. It would have to come with a comprehensive, four-headed organizational regulation, and it would have to come after it's matured and debated enough on its relevant commissions. We can safely say, and we regret to say that the Justice and Development Party government has neither a proper youth policy nor a proper sports policy. No. There's just some executives, you know, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, and a lot of Hamasi words on various platforms that the concerned ministers have expressed in their words. I mean, based on what someone's saying, the painting that's coming out wants a spiteful generation. So if it's about young people, in a very different, long-term perspective, middle-term policies need to be created in a clear way. And the third policy flaw we find important is that the government does not have an Olympic policy. For 12 years -- we've seen one power and three Olympics in the 13th year, and we're realizing a period of time -- actually... Mr. President, please warn Mr. Wiseman. He's keeping the Minister busy. I'm expressing some very important issues here, but it's being occupied.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0260par0185	Your Honor, there's an important matter being discussed here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0261par0186	Mr. Wise...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0259par0187	Now, this is very important.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0262par0188	I listened to Mr. Akçay upstairs.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0263par0189	Mr. Akçay is speaking on the stand. Please, I beg you...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0259par0190	But there's something we need to express here, Mr. Brainy. You can always talk to the Minister. So you found the conversation when I was on the stand?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0264par0191	I swear, he means you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0265par0192	It's intentional. It's intentional.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0259par0193	I repeat, the government does not have an Olympic policy, dear friends, if there is one, Mr. Secretary. The results of the Olympics show this, but I mean, I'm not talking about a political polemic or criticism here, I'd like to say it's not just a job for the Ministry of Youth and Sports; the Olympic event requires a total policy, and we need to make it a national mobilization. The government will be the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and there will be municipalities -- universities -- all institutions, institutions, sports clubs, NGOs -- in a whole way, in an orchestration, I believe that Turkey can achieve very high-level achievements in a medium-term policy implementation, and I want to stress that. Let me put it as my personal opinion: I mean, why does Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara's Metropolitan Municipality, or any other major city municipality need a football team? They run football teams in the first Super League. Istanbul's municipality, Ankara's municipality and all other municipalities must have a duty to prepare athletes for the Olympics. It's the government that will motivate this mission. It's the government. I'm expressing that, and I think my view is right and right. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I invite the government to implement a new and good Olympic policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0266par0199	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 19. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 19-638. The staff listed on the 3- (1) Ekli (3) has been cancelled and removed from the relevant section of the Court of Law No. 190. The personnel listed on the list of additional (4) and (5) were included in the additional chapters of the provisions under the Law Law No. 190. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0267par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0266par0209	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0268par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0266par0211	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0214	Mr. President, I'd like to say, Mr. Lawmakers, that the provision of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for Loans and Dorms and their regional administrations to be transformed into managers in the districts is positive for them to be assigned a staff and to be followed from there; that's true, it's late, on the line. Because now, in your time, we're going to bring universities to all provinces, especially the college building of high school buildings. We see together the size and consequences of opening universities in all provinces without a plan, without a program. The biggest of these results are students' housing problems. Of course, given the regional nature of these housing problems, there were problems in the provinces, and now that they've been converted into cities, I think there are more ways to focus on these problems and find solutions. Some 184 universities were opened during your administrations, and the number of students reached 5.5 million in Turkey. Of course, when we reach $5.5 million, we find something strange, and we find it hard to find work for our kids who finish college. The Prime Minister of the past, the President of today, said: "Do we have to find work for each university?........... that he was the prime minister of Somalia because he was not the prime minister of the Republic of Turkey, but a Somali prime minister did not consider himself responsible for finding jobs for the children in Turkey. Our children are unemployed because we're governed by such understanding. Of course, our five and a half million students have a housing problem. In 2014, there were 673,000 new registers, and only 370,000 of them applied for housing, 87,000 people were placed in the dorm. That number's getting bigger. Imagine that a citizen who has three children, who receives a minimum wage of $946, has the right to read. Of course, this citizen pays half of his income -- if he's a child, if he's a child -- when you say "3 children," it's impossible to make him read it, when we think he has one child -- for housing and food costs only. And that's causing a great deal of trouble. It has another dimension: Because our children cannot move to their dorms, they have to live in houses, particularly in earthquake zones, where I call homes of tatabuts. God forbid, when we encounter an earthquake, know that the most students, students from outside the city, students from outside of the city, have placed them in coffin houses without knowing their families, and students have to live there and live there. They're both cheap and because those families don't live there, they open their homes to students from outside, and that's how they rent their homes, and I want to say that I don't think that's true. Now, what's the problem here, fellas? You know, when you brag about it, there's an institution in the state. You boast that there were 630,000 homes built during your twelve years of power. Of course, you've created a beautiful perception, especially on the edges of the roads, you're doing it in visual spaces, you're putting up big billboards. DO you know that the TOKI (TİKI) has built 530,000 dwellings before your power? Do you know that in twelve years, even ten years, the TOKI (TİKI) built 530,000 dwellings before your power?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0270par0219	No way! Wrong, wrong information.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0271par0220	50,000 brothers, 50 grand.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0221	I don't think you do, you don't know, you really don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0270par0222	And there's no 50 grand.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0223	This is the TOKI, you're doing it. This TOKI has done everything in its time of power; it builds dwellings, builds stadiums, builds hospitals; whatever you can think of, you transfer them to TOKI, but it doesn't do one thing, it doesn't do one thing, guys. In fact, if you had given that money to this TOKI, instead of the illegal palace, we wouldn't have had a student out there next year, in 2015, and you wouldn't even have received a housing allowance from our students when they were living there.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0272par0224	Do you know how many dorms he's built?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0225	Look, guys, you don't do dorms, you rent dorms.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0272par0226	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0227	After Mr. Secretary arrived, he cared about renting a dorm. Why did he give it to you?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0272par0228	TOKI did it in Antalya, did it in İzmir, did it in Tripoli.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0229	Because the students are free... you call them parallels, you sit on their laps...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0273par0230	Now you're sitting down.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0231	...the people you work with, the people you sell all the values of Turkey together, the people you share the rank with, the people you rent from their dorms to save the children, they got into the housing business. But all of this shows that you've been running Turkey for 12 years without a plan, without a program. Know that the first thing we will do with the Republican People's Party's ruling on June 7, 2015 is to build a home for our children and provide education and education for our people who live on minimum wage. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0274par0235	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0275par0236	TOKI's already doing it, it's nothing new, reinventing America!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0237	Don't shout! Don't shout Osman, come talk from here.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0274par0238	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0239	Mr. President, why don't you tell me, please, Mr. Osman?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0274par0240	I told them please, and I'm telling you, please.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0241	He hasn't spoken on this bench in four years. For once, these problems... I beg you very much.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0274par0242	Because you know there's nothing good in your speech that suits this bench. Please... please...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0276par0243	What didn't I say? I just talked to her on Tuesday.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0244	Not to me, please, Osman Bey.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0276par0245	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you for a minute. Mr. President, he's been picking on me. I want a moment of your time.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0246	You don't talk like that, you don't talk like that for a minute. You're going to want to have a proper conversation.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0277par0247	What happened? What picked on you? What did he say?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0276par0248	Come talk from here. He said, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0249	Tell me, according to what clause of the Civil Charter, tell me.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0276par0250	69... there's bullying, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0269par0251	That's it, come on!
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0278par0252	Mr. President, the government has a request.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0279par0253	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit08spe0280par0254	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0280par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the ruling motion of Samuel MP Haydar Akar and his friends on the 19th article of the Law Proposal 688 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's enough of a decision, it's not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 20. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Şeker of Rahmi Love Ali Serindağ Haydar Akar Aytuğ Thrower The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Article 20 - 638. "The Regional Directors of the Office for Higher Education Loans and Dorms Office have been shut down. Any transport, equipment, equipment and materials, available in the use of Regional Managers of the Office for Higher Education and Homes, which have been closed, and any debts and debts available, all records and other records in the written and electronic environment, and other personnel are transferred to the City Departments of Loans and Homes. Due to the transfer of the General Directorate of Higher Education Loans and Homes Directorate Regional Directors, the closure, turnover, personnel transfer and transfer will be carried out by a commission to set up jobs and transactions to be carried out in other transactions -- the staff, the quarterly period and so on. Services carried out by the district managers will continue to be carried out in the same manner until the commission completes these proceedings. (2) In accordance with the 2015 Centre for Management Budget Law, loans and municipalities established by the Ministry of Finance with the Law that violates this clause are covered by the 2015 budget of the Office of Higher Education Credit and Homes. (3) The Ministry is in charge of resolving any doubts about the implementation of the first and second jokes. (4) As of the date this clause entered into effect, the legislation refers to "The Regional Directors and Manager of the Credit and Housing Institution" as well as to "The Local Manager of Credits and Homes" as well as to "The State Manager." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 20 of Law Proposal 688 be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0281par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0280par0025	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0282par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0280par0027	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0283par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Under this law, the Offices of the Offices of Higher Education Loans and Homes are closed; instead, loans and dorms are established in 81 districts. The transport, equipment and equipment, debt and purchases are transferred to the county managers of Loans and Homes, with all kinds of documents and other personnel in use of the closed district managers. With the number of students and dorms growing due to universities established in each province, it is not believable, though it is said that they are going to a new organisation. The government must first account for why it cannot resolve the housing issue. There is no doubt that housing is the most important problem for higher education students. Given the number of students in universities, it is evident that the current housing capacity is very inadequate. Students who can't find a home have suffered a great deal of suffering and suffering. The government, who can't keep up with these students, has failed in this regard. There are many public homes that need to be resolved. With that respect, all opportunities must be mobilized to increase the capacity of the home. The staff shortage in the YURTKUR dorms is also extreme. These dorms must be assigned sufficient personnel. There are no sufficient staff in the dorms, and the distribution of current officers to the dorms is not balanced, so there are major challenges. In some counties, 10 personnel are on watch for 100 students, while in some cities such as Istanbul, 4-5 personnel have to stand watch for about 1,000 students. Due to excessive seizures, personnel are suffering from physical and mental distress. In addition, the staff in the dorms, especially the ladies, are having major problems going home because there is no service. Despite a large number of grown-up employees in YURTKUR, such as the home and branch manager and the office head, the appointment from outside the institution has caused unrest. The institution, which is not content with that, causes great injustices by making testsless appointments to the headquarters of the dorms. Again, the rank of staff in accordance with the rights earned by dorm officials is not assigned. Although the majority of the civil servants who constituted the backbone of the dorms were graduates, they were not able to go up from level five to level five, last year the staff of 600 civil servants was raised from five to four. However, undergraduates in other institutions can advance to the fourth degree of the first degree, while domestic management officers, such as security officers serving in universities, are in no way acceptable to be exposed in this double standard. Because of this injustice, domestic government officials and security guards face significant losses on pensions and pensions. The hourly watch is not a very low and acceptable fee for weekdays and weekends or national and religious holidays. The workers of YURTKUR are clearly being wronged. Again, it is clear at what point was the injustice done, given the cost of the road fare and the three meals of food for the house manager and the vice-principals who were on watch. It is imperative that YURTKUR personnel address their problems and improve their rights. In addition, postings under promotion and title change must be granted the opening of all staffs across the country, as well as the opening of branch managers, branch manager, civil defence expert, educational expert and expert staff of the dorm manager, deputy director, chief and staff of those who cannot be assigned as branch managers, vice presidents of the dorms. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0284par0041	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 20. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions of Article 20 - 638. "The Regional Directors of the Office for Higher Education Loans and Dorms Office have been shut down. Any transport, equipment, equipment and materials, available in the use of Regional Managers of the Office for Higher Education and Homes, which have been closed, and any debts and debts available, all records and other records in the written and electronic environment, and other personnel are transferred to the City Departments of Loans and Homes. Due to the transfer of the General Directorate of Higher Education Loans and Homes Directorate Regional Directors, the closure, turnover, personnel transfer and transfer will be carried out by a commission to set up jobs and transactions to be carried out in other transactions -- the staff, the quarterly period and so on. Services carried out by the district managers will continue to be carried out in the same manner until the commission completes these proceedings. (2) In accordance with the 2015 Centre for Management Budget Law, loans and municipalities established by the Ministry of Finance with the Law that violates this clause are covered by the 2015 budget of the Office of Higher Education Credit and Homes. (3) The Ministry is in charge of resolving any doubts about the implementation of the first and second jokes. (4) As of the date this clause entered into effect, the legislation refers to "The Regional Directors and Manager of the Credit and Housing Institution" as well as to "The Local Manager of Credits and Homes" as well as to "The State Manager." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0285par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0284par0054	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0286par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0284par0056	Mr. Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0287par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 20 of Proposition 688. I salute lawmakers and their executives who are really trying to solve problems and don't sweep them under the carpet. Dear friends, what do you bring with this bill? In 81 counties, you're setting up the county department of loans and dorms. Mr. Secretary, do students need to be established in the county office of Loans and Dorms, for God's sake? Is that what they expect? No, all the families, all the young people, everyone wants you to get rid of the need for housing. No one cares if you start a county office. If a government can't solve the housing problem in 12 years, what can you think of? I can think of two things: he's either incompetent or he's malicious. It could be both, that's another matter. If you can't solve the housing problem with all this money, with all this power, when you're in power all by yourself, you're incompetent, nothing else, because it's a technical job. You don't build hospitals, you don't build smart buildings that require high-tech, you don't need equipment that should be imported abroad. You have a building to build, a bed to put in, a quilt, a cot, nothing else. If you haven't done that in 12 years, you really are incompetent. Do you think you might have ulterior motives? Of course. Of course, you mean well. Why? Because instead of staying in these dorms, you pave the way for our students to stay in various parishes and cult houses. Up until yesterday, the people who had stood at the bus stations, set up tables, and the students and their parents had taken them down and offered shelter to their own community or cult, and you didn't say anything about it. And when the three or five who were not fooled, and were not able to find a place in the dwellings, and had taken a house, they remained with their daughters, and were ashamed. And ye laid all our daughters to shame. Now that you're up, you're setting me up as county manager. And do not set up in Allah's name; if you have anything to do with it, it is your home, and We do not ask of you anything except dwelling. It's not very, very difficult. I'm not saying that, but the government's spokesman, Mr. Bulent Arinc, is saying that right after your meeting with the Council of Ministers. In front of the cameras, he says: "By the beginning of 2015, the country's housing issue will be resolved. " At the beginning of the year 2015, we will have solved this problem, says the great government's great spokesman. You gave very important information at that meeting that day, I read it one by one, you told me about your capacity, you mentioned the number of students staying in dorms, you mentioned the number of people who were left out in the open, and you said, "The problem has to be solved." The government that came to their senses 12 years later is looking at this problem how do I solve it. Let me give it to the municipalities, let the municipalities solve it. It's not working, let me build a dorm. It can't be solved right away, let me rent a bar. It's not irrational, it's logical. That's what Brült Arinc says. No students will be left out. When? Until the beginning of 2015? What year is it? What month is it? Which one of you still doesn't get a phone call today asking if you can find a place for my daughter/son? I swear to God, he's coming to me, and today he's got two: we're out of money, we want to take our kid from the private dorm and put him in the state dorm. Please, Congressman, help us. I'm looking for you in the 3500th place, and you've only solved the housing issue of 20 percent of the students who go to universities, including 20 percent of the private dorms. Now, instead of getting up and starting a county office, for God's sake, settle down, and we'll figure this out. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0288par0065	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0289par0066	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0288par0067	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hilmi Bilgin İdris Şahin Yusuf Başer Recep Special "The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions under the rule of law 21-638. WHEN this article is in effect, the Ministry's headquarters and Sports General Directorate and the General Directorate of Higher Education Loans and Dorms; Deputy Director General, Counsellor, President of the Inspection Board, I. The duties of those who are in the office of the legal advisor, the Head of the Office, the Regional Director, the Regional Director, the Assistant Director of Youth Services, the Director of Youth Services and Sports District Director, the Federation Secretary General, the Director of the House and the Director of the Youth Centre will be completed without any obligation. What is mentioned in this joke is that the investigative staff has been assigned to their staff with the same degree of staff as they still are, without any function whatsoever. However, if there is a difference in fiscal rights between the previous staff and the new staff of the interested ones, the difference will be paid until the difference is closed in the second joke of Article 91 of State Officials Act No. 14/7/1965. Investigative staff or positions have been neglected at the date of the appointment, no need for any operation, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. (2) is a member of the executive staff of the Ministry and its institutions, as required by the court's decisions on the cases they filed regarding the dismissal or appointment process; the Deputy Undersecretary and the General Manager are appointed to the Ministry's Counsel staff, while for others, they are still assigned to the Investigator's staff. Those who are appointed in this way are entitled to the same form and basis of the financial rights included in the first joke. The Ministry's Counsellor and Investigative staff or positions have been neglected without any operation at the time of the appointment, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. According to this clause, the Ministry's Counsellor or Investigators are employed by their superiors, who are authorized to appoint those assigned to their positions. (3) From the time this clause is in effect, the appointment of the Director of Youth Services and Sports District, the Director of Youth Centre and the Director of the House is appointed from among those who carry the terms for service and education of State Officers Act 657, one time for each staff." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 21. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Şeker of Rahmi Love Ali Serindağ Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı The following interim clause has been added to the provisions under the rule of law 21-638. "The duties of those in the Regional Manager and Assistant Regional Director's Office at the Office of the Higher Education Credit and Homes Office at the time of the application of this clause will be completed without any further consideration. Those who are on these staffs have been assigned to the investigative staff, with the ranks they're currently in, without any further processing. However, if there is a difference in fiscal rights between the previous staff and the new staff of the interested ones, the difference will be paid until the difference is closed in the second joke of Article 91 of State Officials Act No. 14/7/1965. Investigative staff or positions have been neglected at the date of the appointment, no need for any operation, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. According to this joke, those assigned to investigative staff or positions are employed in units appointed by their superiors to appoint them." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of the current Law Proposal 688 rows be removed from the proposal text. Erkan Akçay Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0290par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0288par0098	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0291par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0288par0100	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0292par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. In the matter we're talking about, the current regional managers and deputy regional managers in the closed districts of the YURTKUR General Directorate are being relieved of their duties, and they are expected to retain the current financial rights and be assigned to individual investigative staff, which is known as the "bankkamatic officer." While the AKP has pledged to quickly implement a new staff regime and a price regime in the form of reform in the public as it comes to power, it has made it inextricable by drilling down the current staff and wage regime, as it has not taken a step in this direction in more than 12 years. The central examination, which has been put into effect in order to prevent nepotism in hiring employees, has been watered down. Since it does not adhere to objective rules, the practice of contractual, temporary, paid, and proxy personnel that allow you to employ anyone you wish has been popularized, subcontractors have entered every area in the public. In these ways, close friends and allies have been placed in public institutions while dreaming of working with millions of unemployed central exams. The promises of employees are not kept either. The work for subcontractors has been announced by the most competent mouths, but so far nothing has been done. There is no regulation in this law for hiring subcontractors. As a result of their lawsuits, over 9,000 employees employed as contractors on the highways were decided by the courts that they were employees of the General Directorate of Roads, and the Supreme Court agreed to this decision. There are also those who have won lawsuits from subcontractors working in local governments and other public institutions, but the AKP government has not complied with judicial decisions, has denied rights, has not implemented these judicial decisions for four years. It is a crime that these workers are still employed as subcontractors. The AKP government is violating judicial decisions, openly committing crimes. In light of judicial decisions, subcontractors working in the public must be appointed to the staff immediately before the rights of severance pay can be made. In addition to subcontractors, 4/C victims, proxy midwifes, nurses, proxy imams and proxy muezzins, business and occupational advisers, master educators, university graduates, temps and seasonal workers also look forward to the day when they will be relieved of their injustice and discrimination and put on the staff. Again, non-assigned teachers, non-assigned engineers, veters, technicians, graduates of economics and administrative sciences expect the government to give in. The AKP's government, however, does not care, does not even take castles, when it builds a foundation, a university and an institution for its own special purposes, and employs staff. Dear lawmakers, public administration is the head of areas that were destroyed during the AKP administration. This period has been a period when public administration discipline and traditions related to state administration have been destroyed, where politics has entered all areas of public institutions. So far, public administration is completely free from the principle of unity and integrity in public administration, destroying basic balances, damaging equality, causing injustice. Public rights and rights have been ignored, staffing has reached its limit. AKP agencies and advocating unions have decided on public employees' appointments, promotions, and honest officials, who are not wanted by party agencies and advocacy unions, have been expelled from their posts. There has been a period of intimidation and weariness in the bureaucracy. Administrators have been dominated by union membership and partisanism instead of licenses, merits and rights. Chief, even in appointing staffs such as vice principal and branch managers, the joint union has the word. While the government has made no effort to improve working conditions and improve efficiency, it has done everything in the name of partisanism. Of course, the AKP will be billed for their injustices and unlawful conduct. On June 7th, the AKP will eat the sill of millions of unemployed, employees and pensioners and will never recover. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0293par0110	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently held in 688 rows, is 21. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The following interim clause has been added to the provisions under the rule of law 21-638. "The duties of those in the Regional Manager and Assistant Regional Director's Office at the Office of the Higher Education Credit and Homes Office at the time of the application of this clause will be completed without any further consideration. Those who are on these staffs have been assigned to the investigative staff, with the ranks they're currently in, without any further processing. However, if there is a difference in fiscal rights between the previous staff and the new staff of the interested ones, the difference will be paid until the difference is closed in the second joke of Article 91 of State Officials Act No. 14/7/1965. Investigative staff or positions have been neglected at the date of the appointment, no need for any operation, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. According to this joke, those assigned to investigative staff or positions are employed in units appointed by their superiors to appoint them." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0294par0119	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0293par0120	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0295par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0293par0122	Mr. Müslim Sarı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0296par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 21st Article of Bag Number 688. I salute your high council with love. The 18th and 22nd articles of the bag law are the ones that regulate the restructuring of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In particular, the 21st and the 21st article, which I will talk about later, includes the restructuring and regulations of the Credit and Housing Institution. First of all, we, the Republican People's Party, and as a social democratic opposition party, have a special sensitivity to students' housing issues, especially students' housing problems, because it is not a matter of education alone. Of course, the need for housing is a very important part of the education problem, the required presumption, an integral part of it, so that students who go as a social state to the higher education institutions have received their housing needs for free is one of our top priorities. At the same time, it's not just a question of education, it's a political issue, it's also a policy choice. Therefore, it is common practice in Turkey in the past period, especially when students who have to stay, who have to stay, are used as a means of meeting housing needs, housing needs are used in the middle and long term as a means of turning them towards different political preferences. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, as a social democratic party, are sensitive to this issue, and it is our greatest political priority to increase the number of dorms in Turkey in parallel with student needs. As the MPs have noted here, in a period of twelve or thirteen years of power, we do not accept the fact that this problem is still unresolved. While this law is being discussed, while this clause is being discussed, the Plan and Budget Commission has informed us that today, loans and dorms will have about 383 home capacities. Given the number of college students in Turkey, this capacity is never enough, given the rate of increase in universities. Therefore, the primary priority of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is the production of a home at the speed that will quickly ensure that students in higher education need for housing and housing. Of course, we also welcome the restructuring of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, especially the removal of regional directorates of the Credit and Homes Agency, and the creation of municipal administrations. This is a particularly positive arrangement for providing activity in the ministry. However, we expected this arrangement to accompany the increase in the capacity of the dorms. That's what we expect from the Minister in the mid-term and long-term. Another dimension of the issue is that by itself, the ability to increase the capacity of the Credit Homes or to organize the organisation of these dorms. The point of the issue is to bring control of private homes to the front of Turkey, as well as a legal arrangement that will allow private dorm control to be collected in one hand. As it is known, the Credit Homes Agency is responsible for managing public housing, but the Ministry of National Education is responsible for overseeing private dorms. Therefore, there are also a very serious number of students in private dorms. In this regard, we also think it is important that the expertise of an institution responsible for the management of public dorms should be carried out on the audit of private dorms. So we think it's very important that private dorms are inspected, as well as loan dorms. While an arrangement has been made regarding this, the district administrations have been shut down and the municipal administrations are being established, and while the organisation structure is being redesigned, we think that the essence of the work should be expanded, it should be redesigned, and it is important that the housing issue be resolved by one hand, as well as by one hand. We think it's important that the control of private dorms be transferred to the Credit House in order to be conducted in one hand. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0297par0133	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 21 of Law Proposal 688 be changed as follows. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends "The following temporary clause has been added to the provisions under the rule of law 21-638. WHEN this article is in effect, the Ministry's headquarters and Sports General Directorate and the General Directorate of Higher Education Loans and Dorms; Deputy Director General, Counsellor, President of the Inspection Board, I. The duties of those who are in the office of the legal advisor, the Head of the Office, the Regional Director, the Regional Director, the Assistant Director of Youth Services, the Director of Youth Services and Sports District Director, the Federation Secretary General, the Director of the House and the Director of the Youth Centre will be completed without any obligation. What is mentioned in this joke is that the investigative staff has been assigned to their staff with the same degree of staff as they still are, without any function whatsoever. However, if there is a difference in fiscal rights between the previous staff and the new staff of the interested ones, the difference will be paid until the difference is closed in the second joke of Article 91 of State Officials Act No. 14/7/1965. Investigative staff or positions have been neglected at the date of the appointment, no need for any operation, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. (2) It is required by the court's decisions on the cases they have filed in the Ministry and its institutions, as well as by the Ministry's Counsellor staff for the Deputy Undersecretary and General Director staff, and for others, as well as by the staff they are currently assigned to the Investigator's staff. Those who are appointed in this way are entitled to the same form and basis of the financial rights included in the first joke. The Ministry's Counsellor and Investigative staff or positions have been neglected without any operation at the time of the appointment, and if for any reason it has been discharged, it has been cancelled without any procedure. According to this clause, the Ministry's Counsellor or Investigators are employed by their superiors, who are authorized to appoint those assigned to their positions. (3) From the time this clause is in effect, the appointment of the Director of Youth Services and Sports District, the Director of Youth Centre and the Director of the House is appointed from among those who carry the terms for service and education of State Officers Act 657, one time for each staff." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0298par0144	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0297par0145	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0299par0146	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0297par0147	I'm reading the reason: With this proposal, relations with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and its organisations have been reorganised for more effective service. In this context, the ministry is aimed at co-ordinating its central agency and its subsidiaries and rural agencies. In addition, the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes has been removed from the region's organisation and has been organised at the state level, and the staff of the Ministry's Director of Youth Services has been committed to co-ordinated activities in the country. With the proposal, necessary changes are being made to the Ministry and its service staff and the use of the above arrangements. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission participates in the motion, mostly with 21 members, then I'm going to discuss the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following clause and other substances to be identified after Article 21 of the Law Proposal 688. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hilmi Bilgin Osman Love Look Recep Special The following article has been added to the provisions of Law 375, dated 22-27/6/1989. EXCEPT from the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act No. 27/7/1967, dated 18- (1) 22/5/2003, dated 4857, and the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926, regardless of the rules they follow, the Prime Ministership, the ministries, the ministries, and the relevant organisations and the relevant organisations and the members of the Fund Insurance Fund 10/12/2003 and added to Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 (III). A) When the undersecretaries and their additional indicators are 7600 and those in the higher executive staffs, or when their term expires, B) (a) The additional indicator is 6400 and those in the higher positions of executive staffs or positions, including those in the prime minister's central and relevant institutions, including those in office who have been removed from office or at the end of their term of office, the prime minister's attorney, the ministry's central agencies, and those in relevant institutions of the ministry, with regulatory and auditory institutions, and those in the Savings Department Insurance Fund, who are in the positions of their institutions, or advisors, when they are out of office. C) Those in executive positions or positions identified as additional indicators 3600 (digitive) to 6400 (haric) when they are relieved of duty or when their term expires; 1) In the positions of the headquarters of the Central Agency (A) which previously served under the 36th Article of the Law No. 657 (A) section (A) and in the positions of these staffs or positions of the central organization, which has the same or similar qualifications or qualifications, 2) In addition to the positions of the staff or positions that have not been listed in subcommittee (1) in the previous subcommittee (1), which have been identified as an additional indicator of 3600 (due) and 6400 (haric), the executive staff or positions in which they have served at least three years. 3) (2) Those who have served less than three years under the subcommittee number (2), according to this clause, to investigative positions or positions belonging to the central or rural organization, The additional indicator is less than 3600, when the executive staff or positions are suspended or when their term is over; 1) Those in staff or positions with similar or similar qualifications have previously been assigned to the staff or positions of the 36th Article of the Law under Common Judgments (A) section (11). 2) The others have been assigned to the central or rural community's investigative staff or positions, They're assigned. Those who request such appointments within a month are assigned to positions of staff or positions of titles they have previously been in or exported to other than the executive staff or positions taken under this joke by the appointees. (2) Under the final sentence of the joke referred to under the first joke, if there are no available staffs or positions available for postings on demand, such positions or positions have been assigned to the bodies or positions of the institutions, without further processing. In the event of the discharge of staffs and positions that are considered to be committed in this manner, it will be cancelled without any procedure. Those assigned to the current staff and positions will be employed in units designated by their appointed superiors. (3) Administrator's financial rights of those appointed as part of the first joke shall continue to be paid on the basis of previous duties, except payment due to actual work from the end of the second year, as long as they have been in those positions of staff or positions where they have been appointed for at least two years straight. (4) These provisions are not applied to judges and prosecutors, foreign occupational officers, the class of property management services, the class of national intelligence services class and security services, and those in executive staff members, who are covered by Article 27/9/1984 and under Article 3046 of Law 21/A, who have been appointed under the conditions of losing their appointment, prosecution or disciplinary investigation, and an additional indicator of positions that can be appointed under the mandate of the mandate or position of higher staff (duhil) and lower. (5) The additional indicators on those whose additional indicators have been differently identified, including those used in terms of pension, in accordance with the specific legislation on the implementation of this clause, are taken into consideration for the same or similar staff titles in the addition to Law 657. (6) Anti-matter provisions of other laws do not apply. (7) The Finance Ministry is authorized by the State Chief of Staff to address doubts that may arise on financial issues in the implementation of this clause," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0300par0179	Yes, Mr. President, our commission has its only majority, and we're in it with the majority of us.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0301par0180	We'd like to think of it as an Isari.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0302par0181	Put your hands up, fellas.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0303par0183	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0304par0184	In the name of the person...
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0305par0185	We'd like a word on the subject, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit09spe0303par0186	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-18sit10spe0303par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 688. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 687, which is ranked in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available after this, the decision taken on Thursday (March 19th 2015) required that we discuss legislation and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
