tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding recent events at the universities. Before I begin my speech, I salute our great Assembly, and ask for mercy for our martyrs, for their families and for the great Turkish nation. Honourable lawmakers are trying to rehearse terrorist incidents that have recently been launched in some of the towns and districts in our southeastern province, and have been re-spoiled in the form of rehearsals in many of our universities today. In particular, during the beginning of exam week, threats, threatening letters, exposure and targeting on social media, threatening messages left in our daughters' purses have really been out of control. However, such events should not be taken into account at universities, which have universally equipped with universal knowledge and technology production centers. We, the National Movement Party, had issued our warnings before this incident with our brother, Fırat Çakıroğlu, who lost in February 2015. First of all, we invite the authorities to take office at the point where these events are to be ended as quickly as our president, our Minister of Interior and the Minister of National Education, especially their general secretary and chancellor at universities, because our sons are our most valuable assets, and the complaints that have come up so far are quite large because our children are no longer free to do their studies in the classrooms, they are unable to perform their experiments in the labs. Should we lose the new Firats again to be brought up again? I would like to address Mr. President, who has brought up the freedom of worship at Middle East Technical University: Sir, there is a more important right to live before freedom of worship. Freedom of worship means nothing without a human right to live. We saw the clearest example at the Great Mosque in Diyarbakır. In a thousand three hundred and seventy-six years, for the first time in this mosque, there was no Friday prayer. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party is not here to seek any political debate, only to express concerns about the safety of our young at those universities. It is also the duty of the authorities to participate in these concerns, to respond to them, and to take the necessary precautions. In that sense, we invite the authorities on duty. How do they get into colleges? We invite the officials, the responsible, to take responsibility for how these sharp, piercing, explosive materials are being moved to universities, for who's dishing them out, for who's laying the floor. On the other hand, we tell our young people that as free young people, free of ideas and conscience, free of knowledge, you must continue to produce and share universal knowledge, despite any provocation. In doing so, you must never give up values such as the flag, state, nation, and country guaranteed by the Constitution. In this context, let it be Mustafa Kemal, who commands to read and study in every condition; and again, let it be Professor Saint Sancar, who is worthy of reading in his spare time, even when every corner of the country is occupied; yet, if you are looking for a living role model, let it be Professor Saint Sancar, who is considered worthy of the Nobel Prize of Science, without compromising the knowledge and technology produced by Anatolia. Dear MPs, these children are our children, these puppies are our babies. Please call the authorities to their posts immediately before any political debate takes place. And these universities say, sir, that all kinds of explosive materials are being used, not to become high-level places for threats, blackmail, and I salute all of you with my deepest respect.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Burdur MP Mehmet Göker, who wants to talk about the problems of the province of Burdur. Here you are, Mr. Göker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with my words with the mercy and gratitude in the 79th year of the death of Burdur MP Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the poet of our Istiklal March. Unfortunately, the terror in the east of our country continues at its full speed. I wish the four soldiers who have been killed in Diyarbakır and Şırnak in the last two days to God's mercy and to their grieving families. Our proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the Republican People's Party for the talk of terrorism and the establishment of a commission against terrorism has been justified once again after these developments. I salute you with love and respect as a member of a city that is stuck between Antalya and Isparta, who is feeding on tourism, and has huge problems. Burdur takes the lead among the unhealthy provinces in an air control measure made by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 81 counties. Naturally, it is evident that this has had a negative effect on the health of the rest of us living in Burdur. Now, I would like to ask you: What measures are being taken as the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in the face of this unhealthy situation that affects the health of our citizens? Does the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism have a study for this? On the other hand, our Burdur State Hospital has 77 doctors, 677 staff, and our clinics average about 3,000 patients per day, and our monthly number of patients is around 1,600. Most of our province of Burdur is in the first-degree earthquake zone. Some of the institutions and schools found in our province were destroyed because they were unsubstantiated by the earthquake, while some of the other buildings were tried to strengthen it. One of the buildings found in Burdur is the old state hospital, where I have served for many years. The Ministry of Health has decided to strengthen the Burdur State Hospital building as well, and then the tender is completed. Now, I'd like to ask: has there been any study of whether strengthening our state hospital is sufficient for the risk of an earthquake? If the study was done, when will the data be shared with the public? If Burdur State Hospital is not earthquake-proof, the fact that it is still being served in our hospital poses a huge risk to the working and sleeping patients. Since the state hospital in Burdur County in the first earthquake belt is the only hospital in the center of the city, I move to call upon the Ministry of Health to make a new hospital immediately, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Göker. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Burdur MP Bajram Özçelik, who asked for a comment on the 79th anniversary of Mehmet Akif Ersoy's death. Here you go, Mr. Originality. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-top promise in connection with the 79th anniversary of the death of Mehmet Akif Ersoy. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. On December 27, 1936, we sent Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the poet of our future and future, to Rahman. To be remembered with mercy, that's what eternity is. I've lived quietly, who'll know who I am. After his death, Mehmet Akif was an inspiration and guidance to many contractors, friends of the heart, friends of God, statesmen and politicians, teachers, students, and many cases of rights. Mehmet Akif Ersoy was the Burdur MP of the first Assembly of our republic. In the years of the national struggle, he also visited Burdur, as he walked through Anatolia, to encourage our people to fight for salvation, to fight for virtue, to fight for freedom, to meet with the zeal and respect of the Burdurites. After winning a victory from the national struggle, Mehmet Akif Ersoy received an offer from the two top regions of our Anatolian province to become a deputy minister, and he personally chose the legislature of the province of Burdur, where there were scholars at the time. Although Mehmet Akif lived with a thousand difficulties, hardship, pressure, and disarray, he is now named in thousands of names, in school, in the neighborhood, in the street, in the cultural centers and only as the ruler of the Burdur people in Burdur, Mehmet Akif Ersoy University. 24,868 students and Mehmet Akif Ersoy at our university; As I was saying... the generation of the rebel... is... a generation of truth: Mehmet Akif, in his lines, was inspired and inspired by our young people. We like Mehmet Akif. Because he's religious. We love Akif (Akif) because he is the man who lives as he believes. We love Akif. Because he does not shut up in the face of injustice. We love the Akif....because he stands next to the oppressed, the strange, the guru. We love Akif (Akif) because he did not sell the Istliklal March. Especially in the day of social turmoil, we ask Akif. As a father, we ask them to read his letters to his family, to his children, to listen to his counsel, to pass on the generation of Safahat. We want statesmen and politicians to learn how, in the presence of the public, to unite with the religious and national values of the people and to carry them to the future. We think that everyone should know and learn how the virtuous, self-righteous, self-righteous stand is reflected in your life all the time. Sadly, he is the only poet in the world who was exiled from his country, even though he wrote the Istiklal March. He went into exile from God, because he wrote and was saved from trial in the royal courts.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0007par0051	The guard's gone, Hodja. He's in charge.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0006par0052	Dear lawmakers, if he is a guide and a follower of the statesmen who rule his country, if he be a minister, if he be a Jonah Emre, if he be a Haci Bektas Veli, if he be a Haci Bayram Veli, don't be afraid. If a president, who rules his country, is the head of his prime minister's book, like Mehmet Akif, don't worry, don't hesitate, because in his heart there are the breezes of tears of civilization. I can't applaud persecution, I can't love a tyrant, I can't stand in the past and curse for the pleasure of the one who comes. I'll strangle someone when they attack me! - You don't drown! - At least I'll get rid of him. I can't go behind three-and-a-half degenerates, Not if I die in the name of right, not if I die in the name of injustice. Ever since I was born, I've been in love with you. He's never been on a leash to me, golden tulip. If I'm mild, who says I'm a docile sheep? Maybe it'll cut, but my neck won't pull. When I see a bleeding wound, my liver burns. I'll have a whip to ease him, a double. Adam, I can't tell you to be late, I'll have it taken care of. I chew, I chew, I hold the right, I lift it. Mehmet Akif drew it if the rulers say it's 2023, if he says it's 2053, if he says it's 2071, if he says it's Mehmet Akif. To let go of determination by seeing darkness... If there is a low death, that is all I know. I don't believe in yesterday, even when I see it: No one who implies it will die with this death. O all-in-dignity! Two hands for a head. Why don't you... Hands for you, head for you! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear MPs, please let Fatiha be our best gift for the soul of Mehmet Akif. I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0008par0079	Thank you, Your Grace. We, too, thankfully and gratefully remember our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy for the 79th anniversary of his passing. I don't want God to make this country write the Istrillal March again. Thank you again. By the way, we've finished off the agenda. Mr. Akçay has a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0009par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to draw the attention of the General Assembly and the government today, and I'd like to give you some information. The same structures are seen in universities, as the terrorist organization was built in cities during the destruction process, which is referred to in its name,......... the solution,............. and so on. The government is insensitive to what is happening at these universities, and it's almost tolerated. During the last training period, students at Aegean University, Ankara University's Cebeci campus are targeted today at Hacettepe University, who show their will and goal to live under our moon-star flag and have no concern but to study. The union and presence of the Turkish nation are also threatened at universities. President Erdoğan has said that whatever the facts of ODTÜ should be done by the NGO, we are its followers. It is not understandable that Mr. President should not display the same sensitivity for students in the Hacettepe as a commission of 3 members of the RSR takes action the very next day. I wonder if Mr. President will also invite the SEC to the post for Hacettepe. In the terrorist attacks at universities, both government and university administrations are very insensitive... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On February 20, 2015, several questions were left unanswered regarding the murder of Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu at Ege University by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I'd like to point out that what happened in the Hacettepe is that what happened in the universities is not the opposition student conflict, it's a terrorist organization activity and it's an attack. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking you about the Hacettepe incident, why didn't the law enforcement and intelligence department prevent these incidents at the universities? Why haven't terrorists been identified who came from out of college to try to protect the students' lives? When PKK terrorists openly target students through social media, why isn't the police acting? How did fireworks and Molotovs get into college campuses? The universities are facing the invasion of PKK's terrorist organisation. The AKP and university administrations, which have been silent and watched the construction of terrorists in universities, are among the most important responsible for these events. University corridors are being transformed into Kandil caves, while universities are being returned to PKK camp and the government is silent. As terrorists and ringleaders hang posters in training nests, governments ignore them again. Instead of bringing terrorists to justice at universities, government and university governments are sending under threat students to other schools to carry them to safety, is that a failure? As a result, our universities are being made the base of separatist militants who pass through PKK's mountain training. There is no freedom of learning or safety left. Once again, I warn the government that it is your responsibility to clean up the terrorist activity of Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Mersin, Antalya and all other universities in our country. It is your responsibility to ensure that our students, our children, will exercise their right to education and their safety. The safety of our students is at stake. Hear their cries and fulfill your duty. Let it not be forgotten that whoever condones these attacks is a party to the crime. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0010par0103	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I see the MPs entering the system before we go on the agenda. In my first session, I stated that I would not make any promises, except in special and exceptional circumstances, according to 60. However, we are performing the last week of the first year of the 26th century, perhaps the last day, I don't know. So, on this occasion, I first hope that 2016 will bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and to all mankind. I wish our world to have a year of reforms that will meet the expectations of our nation on the way to new Turkey, especially to the new constitution and Parliamentary Institution, when peace, peace, peace and happiness are prevailing. On this occasion, again, I would like to congratulate you on the new year of our nation and your fellow lawmakers. In this particular context, in this particular case, as of today, I give the first 10 of our friends entering the system a moment's notice according to 60. I would like to first announce our MPs, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Kayşoglu, Mr. Emir, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Gazel, Mr. Torun, Mr. Gürel and Mr. Bektasoglu. Now, according to 60, the first word belongs to Mr. Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Your time is one minute.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0011par0115	Mr. President, first of all, congratulations on your new assignment, and I wish you all the best. We've also brought up the problems of the narcissistic manufacturers here at our ministers' meetings. They said they would be addressed by the Council of Ministers, and they said they would certainly seek a solution to the problems of the citrus manufacturer. However, no concrete steps have ever been taken. There are problems abroad, including Habur Border Gate. We expect your government to come up with an immediate solution and take concrete steps. In addition, there are no specialists at Silifke State Hospital, and two days ago, a patient has not been diagnosed as a neurosurgeon, and a 35-year-old patient has died. If we can't even have an attending in a place like Silifke today, where can we get an attending? I'm waiting for an answer to that, please, from the government authorities.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0012par0118	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0013par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Anyone who comes with an election and receives a monthly government allowance is insured and the state is responsible for paying social security premiums. There's only one exception, Mr. President: We offered the law in the 24th term as the Republican People's Party to pay the mayor's social security premiums, rejected by the votes of the government. Come on, 26th term, all of you, support the law offer to pay off the chiefs' social security premiums by the state, and we'll take care of the damage of our chiefs. And Mr. President, if you had promised 16 people to meet 2016, symbolically, it would have been a better happiness. Thank you, I offer my respect and respect. I'm also celebrating the new year of all our citizens.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0014par0125	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0015par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to continue this practice of yours, first of all. ODTU is the pride of this country in science. The other day, the President says: "They attack the young men who pray in the city. When the executive staff comes to talk, they say we're freedomrs. Let's look at freedom now: ODTÜ has also been asked to build a company in the past years, but, of course, this practice has not been fulfilled. Last semester, under the roof of Parliament, other places of worship and mosques were asked to be opened again, but these demands were denied. So, is this freedom? I ask the European Court of Human Rights whether it is not implementing its decisions, not respecting the freedom of religion of others, and I repeat: it is intended to play with these provocations, with the traditional identity of ODTÜ, and other educational institutions -- of course, of ODTÜ.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0016par0131	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. Mr. Emir, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0017par0134	Mr. President, real intentions have surfaced after the deputy who suggested that the tank enter the ODTU with the ball. Again, the land of a member of parliament, ODTÜ, is of great value. At least four universities can fit on these fields. He made a statement in the form of a university. I'd like to ask you how many universities can fit on the property of the illegal palace. Building a university is not like selling valuable land parcels and building malls and high blocks over them; to build a university, you need to have a mind that respects science. My respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0018par0137	Mr. Tuncer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0019par0139	Mr. President, I wish you all the best. I wish the New Year would bring peace and peace to all our people. The Amasya University Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences has been decided to open to Merzifon (Merzifon) and this decision has been passed to the Merzifonians by the AKP MPs of the period as a good news, but the establishment of the school was suspended on 30 March 2014 when the Republican People's Party won its local election, and as a criminal, the Republican People's Party tried to show its municipality. Is it right to punish the people in a district where you lost the election? When will the faculty of economic and administrative sciences be established and begin training? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0020par0144	Thank you. Mr. Gazel...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0021par0147	Mr. President, thank you very much. And I just wanted to say that we've been regretting and regretful watching the events that have occurred in the ODTÜ last week, which have been very clear to provocation. As a brother of yours who was a university student during February 28th, I would like to point out that these events, which returned to the 1990s and were open to provocation, were never approved by our nation. And in 2016, I wish that he would bring blessings to our entire House, our nation, our country, and the entire Islamic world. Have a good day at work.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0022par0151	Thank you, Mr. Gazel. Mr. Grandson...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0023par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Aybastı is one of the beautiful districts of the Army, with about 25,000 inhabitants with its villages, about 90km from the centre of the army. Because of its distance to the province's centre, the people living in central and villages are trying to resolve health problems in the district centre, where they are very sensitive. The state hospital in the district has an average of 78,000 patients per month. It is found in both local media and the complaints of citizens that the locals are unable to receive adequate health care. This is consistent with what the Ministry of Health's mission and its vision. What are the number of attendings, practitioners, and assistant medical staff serving at Aybasti State Hospital? Does your Ministry have any plans for the missing expert and GP deficit? When will the locals receive the health care they deserve? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0024par0158	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0025par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish for health and peace of mind in 2016. One of Niğde's old companies laid off 116 workers yesterday, workers were victims. I visited the villages on Sunday, and the apple and the potato are in storage, and the manufacturer thinks black and blue. Niğde prepares to destroy the mosques of Dutlu, Sürmeli, Çınar, and basil. In the words of the citizen, the ones who can't pass through HGS are on the run. In Aksaray Ilısu, a citizen of the Republic has been sentenced in front of my Tractor home for running away from the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge. In short, our citizens are facing intense problems even during the last week of the year. In this context, especially the manufacturers are waiting for a solution to their problems, which are about to rot in the warehouse. Meanwhile, citizens expect the need to ensure that mosques in urban transformation do not be destroyed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0026par0165	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0027par0168	Mr. President, first of all, I wish the budget to be good, and I sincerely wish our new year to bring peace and peace to our country. I'd like to share an event last week in the national media, in science, in Giresun. The mayor of Bulancak district of Giresun has discussed dialogues involving heavy insults with the Brigadier General who stopped a truck carrying municipal road supplies last week on the grounds that there was more than a tonage on the Roads Charter. With these images, the president sets up an example of law and lawlessness under the guise of public service, preventing him from doing his duty by making strong accusations against the commander, such as the parallelist, bribery, and the governor. In this regard, I think it would be necessary for the AKP mayors to make an example of showing respect for those who serve on behalf of the public, to have the behind-the-scenes, to have the facts revealed, to investigate, to investigate. I just want to say that the back curtain is a little more important.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0026par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, we're now on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The following decisions made during meetings with the political party group presidents at the time of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's vacation are submitted to the General Assembly's information, according to Article 11/11 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. 1) A parliamentary seminar held by the European Parliament in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, on September 24-25, 2015 by the European Broadcasting Union, and on the participation of İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca, a parliamentary seminar on the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, was issued on 17 August 2015. 2) The decision of Mr Mehmet Naci Bostancı, deputy president of TBM at the 4th World Assembly Chairs Conference held by the Parliamentary Union on 31 August-2 September 2015, was issued on August 17, 2015. 3) The conference titled "Openness of Parliamentary Action Plans, Standards and Data" will be held in Tbilisi, Georgia's capital city, on September 14,-15, 2015, under the framework of the Global Open of Legislature Week, and will be held on August 20, 2015 for the participation of Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. 4) Rize MP Osman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy and İstanbul MP Murat Özçelik attend the Joint Foreign and Security Policy and Joint Security and Defence Policy Conference in Luxembourg on 4-6 September 2015 5) The autumn meeting of the European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliamentary Assembly of Mongolia (OSCEPA) from 15 September to 18 September 2015, was a decision issued on September 01, 2015 for the participation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Im and Mersin MP Mr. Aytuğ Atici. 6) European Parliament (EP) Foreign Relations Committee; Civil Freedoms, Justice and Internal Affairs Committee and Human Rights Subcommittee on September 15, 2015) 7) Parliamentary election watch held by the Parliamentary Assembly of European Security and Co-operation Assembly Parliament (OSCEPA) in Kyrgyzistan from October 1st 2015, the decision dated September 15, 2015 on the participation of Parliament MP Cahit Bağcı of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Mr. Cahit Bağcı; President of the Republic of White Russia from 8-12 October 2015; Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya of the Turkish Parliament and Ankara MP Mr. Şenal Sarıhan; 8) Mr. Kemalettin Aydın, Karabük MP Osman Caffeci, Mersin MP Mustafa Muhammet Gültak, Ankara MP Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka, İzmir MP Mr. Xenep Sixok, Balıkesir MP Mr. Recep Çetin on September 15, 2015. 9) Rize MP Mehmet Günal and Aydın MP Metin Baydar, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Faik Öztrak, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Konkar, Giresun MP Mr. Adem Taştek, Düzce MP Mr. Faruk Özlü, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Mustafa Yel, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and Aydın MP Mr. Metin Lütfi Baydar, Tekirdağ MP Mr. Faik Öztrak's participation in the annual meeting in Stavanger district of Norway on October 9, 2015 10) Under the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkish Language Countries (TÜRKPA) on 2 October 2015, the decision on the participation of Turkish Parliamentary Assembly MP Erkan Aydın. 11) Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsin Bilgehan, Antalya MP Deniz Baykal, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Kölkar, İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoğlu, Konya MP Mustafa Sait Gönen, Osmaniye MP Mr. Suat Önal, Isparta MP Mr. Seyya Sadi Bilgic and Mersin MP Mr. Ertu Kürlül's decision on September 17th, İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sait Gönen, Osmaniye MP Mr. 12) 5-6 October 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of Black Sea Economic Co-operation (KEIPA) held in Varna, Bulgaria, and the Commission for Economics, Trade, Technology and Environmental Affairs and Political Affairs Commission held on September 18, 2015. 13) Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on September 28, 2015, a decision issued in Bucharest on co-operation with the United Nations Terrorism Prevention Unit on October 8, 2015 and the participation of Romanian House of Representatives on the participation of Mr. Mehmet Günal of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, on "The Challenges in Relations to Terrorism and Foreign Terrorist Warriors" in Bucharest. 14) Under the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkish Language Countries (TÜRKPA), the decision on the participation of Afyonkarahisar MP from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Mr. Halil Çift, in the election of the Azerbaijan Republic on 30 October-1 November 2015, was issued on October 1, 2015. 15) Under the annual working programme of the European Parliament (EP) Pre-accession Action Unit for EU enlargement countries, the decision on the Council of Regional Co-operation and the participation of Mr. Murat Emir of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sarajevo on October 15th 2015, as part of a conference titled "Economy and Development in the EU and Enlargement Lands," was held by Turkish Parliament MP Turhan Alcelik, İstanbul MP Mr. Hüseyin Yayman and Ankara MP Mr. Murat Emir on October 2, 2015. 16) International committee meeting of the European Parliament (EP) Transport and Tourism Committee in Brussels, Belgium on 13 October 2015. 17) A decision issued by the Albanian Parliament on October 22-24, 2015 in Tirana on the participation of Mr. Ali Haydar Hakverdi of the Turkish Parliament for the 11th Conference of European Integration/Works Commissions (COSAP) and Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakverdi on October 06, 2015 18) On 19 October 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Assembly (KEIPA) in Tirana, Albania, reached the meeting of Culture, Education and Social Affairs Commission, on October 6, 2015. The Italian Senate hosted an international meeting in Florence titled "The New Paradigms of the European-Akdeniz Business Association 20 years after the Declaration of Barcelona." 20) In co-operation with the European Parliament's Before-Accession Action Unit in Brussels on 18 November 19 November 2015, the role of the Public Controller in Modern Parliament: Ankara MP Bült Kuğoğlu of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Mr Şaban Dünçli and Sitt MP Yasin Aktay of Parliament on October 26, 2015. 21) A parliamentary committee meeting held by the European Parliament Constitutional Affairs Committee (AFCO) in Brussels, Belgium on 19 November 2015: "The Union's Institutional Evolution in the Future: Increased Political Dialogue between the European Parliament and National Parliaments and Enhancing Control in the European Level" 22) The National Assembly of France hosted the Global Council of Lawmakers (GLOBE) on 4 December 5 December 2015 in Paris, France. Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly MP Çifdem Karaaslan and İstanbul MP Barış Y Friend's participation in the parliamentary summit was issued on November 04, 2015. 23) Permanent Committee Meeting of the Southeast European Co-operation Process Parliament Assembly (GDAPA) in Sofia, Bulgaria, hosted by the Bulgarian Parliament on 5-7 November 2015, and a decision dated "GDAUPA-Bregional Synergy, Strategic Co-operation and Parliamentary Diplomacy" to the international conference, titled Edirne MP Mr. Erdin Bircan and Kayseri MP Mr. Eve Talaj Work, on November 04, 2015. 24) On December 9, 2015, under the programme of the Agricultural and Rural Development Commission for EU enlargement of the European Parliament (EP) Joint Action Unit, the European Parliament (EP), Hatay MP Mehmet Öturk of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Karaman MP Recep Öğurk of Turkey, and Mr. Turabi Kayan of 40lareli, a decision on the participation of Mr. Turabi Kayan on November 09, 2015. 25) On 15 October 2015, the UN Charter for Climate Change 21 in Paris, France. The decision on the participation of Kayseri MP Ahmet Doğan and Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (COP 21) was issued on November 12, 2015. 26) Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliament Assembly (KEIPA) 46, held in Bucharest from 25 November to 27 November 2015. Mr. Haluk İpek, Rize MP Mr. Hasan Karal, Sakarya MP Ali Ihsan Yavuz, Samsun MP Ahmet Demircan, Tripoli MP Mr. Muhammad Balta, Artvin MP Mr. Uğur Bayuktutan, Köse, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, Adana MP Mr. Seyfettttin Yilmaz and former MP Mr. Ihsan Senner. 27) Vice President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Prof. Dr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, TBM Executive Director and Corum MP Mr Salim Beşı, TBM Executive Director and Corum MP, the decision on the participation of Mr. Flood Köse, was issued on November 13, 2015. It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, there are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Over 20 million building stocks in our country are known to be 70 per cent unregistered, illegal. Starting in 1948, many zoning pardons have been granted, but these pardons have served to ensure that problems remain permanent, not to reorganise these areas and to improve the living standards of those living in the region. New ones are added to thousands of existing illegal structures every day. On the other hand, these dwellings have unbecoming images of human dignity. On the one hand, it is ironic that the people who passed urban transformation laws in order to build healthy and safe cities would tolerate illegal construction. We propose the opening of Parliament investigations under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures needed to halt this process and to examine the detailed analysis of the socioeconomic problems of areas that are under illegal construction and the socioeconomic problems brought by illegal construction, and to determine the measures necessary to stop the process. [[Scholarship]] [[Sivas]] [[Edirne]] 4) Kamil Okyay Fit [[İzmir]] [[Samsun]] [[40s.]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] 15) Ali Haydar Hakver [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] The issue of illegal construction is one of the biggest problems of the urban development process in our country. Earthquake danger, infrastructure and transportation problems, unhealthy and insecure urban settlements, and almost all of the problems of social structure are based on illegal construction. Unfortunately, the process of illegal construction, which began in particular in the 1950s, began with increasing internal migrations, as well as the state's failure to provide housing under the proper conditions for immigrant citizens, has become a habit. In addition to this habit, illegal construction turned into a political and economic rant vehicle, especially during election times, when local and central administration condoned it. Many zoning pardons have been issued in Turkey from 1948 until today. These pardons have led to reorganisation of slum areas and not raising living standards for people living in the region, but making problems permanent. In particular, post-1980 pardons were intended to lay legal groundwork for the development of urban rants within the framework of neoliberal policies, serving as a means for the liquidation of residents and transfer of the rate created to the upper classes, unlike the past. On the one hand, the laws of urban transformation to build healthy and safe cities have been passed, while it is ironic that they are allowed to become illegal. It's a more essential requirement to make existing unhealthy settlements healthier. Another major problem with illegal construction is the living conditions of our people. Although it has been developed by illegal construction, the fact that people live in these conditions in our major cities brings with it some serious problems. Electricity, such basic needs as water, are not accessible to social life or to health, but to create images that are not suitable for urban life. The problem of illegal construction is also an important task to resolve the problems of citizens who are forced to live in these areas, given that the state has as much responsibility as the citizen does. As it is known, 70 per cent of the building stock in our country exceeds 20 million is unregistered, illegal. New ones are added to the thousands of illegal structures that exist every day, but in these dwellings there are unpromising images of human dignity. On one hand, luxury buildings are rising in metropolitan areas such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Bursa, while illegal construction in the middle neighborhoods does not slow down. Citizens who live in these illegal structures either satisfy their needs for electricity, water, or power from their neighbors or construction sites. On the other hand, municipalities receive taxes, such as property, environment, cleaning and sign tax on Article 9 of the Tax Code 213. In this context, studies are being done to solve developed urban problems with illegal construction, while closely monitoring the ongoing process of illegal construction is crucial. A thorough review of the areas in which illegal construction continues and the socioeconomic problems brought by illegal construction; the necessary steps must be taken quickly to determine who is supplying the rent from illegal construction and to stop the process. While these studies continue, work must be done to improve the living conditions of our people in these areas and to eliminate images that do not suit urban life. In order to identify the problems listed above, we propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The measures that need to be discussed in the context of preventing violence against women who have been increasing in recent years are important to ensure that the problem does not continue and does not grow. The issue of marriage, which should be discussed between these measures, was unfortunately programmed to be limited and underprivileged in the 64th Government Programme. The fact that individuals have completed their psychological, sociological development and education will increase the possibility that they will succeed in maintaining a family union in a healthy way and in raising healthy generations for the future. Therefore, we would like to conduct research and solutions to the protection of girls who cannot attend school, who are at risk of early marriage; we would like to ask that the Constitution be opened and requested that Parliament be investigated on the basis of Articles 104, and Article 105. [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 5) Ahmet Selim Yurdakul [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Fahrettin Oğuz Tor [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] 13) Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] There is no doubt that the violence against the woman who has increased rapidly in our country in recent years and the media has upset each and every one of us. Violence is certainly one of the most important problems to address with precision and serious measures. However, in order for the work done on the subject to succeed, the field of study must be expanded by looking at the problem from a wider perspective. Because violence is the tip of the iceberg. Violence against women is not limited to physical size, economic, emotional, and sexual violence are often ignored or ignored. The economic, cultural, political, education, and employment problems that our women live in in a social area are rich enough to be examined in detail. Among the issues discussed in the 64th Government Programme, studies to prevent early marriages, especially in the context of preventing violence against women, have been limited by educational services for the family. In other words, it should be noted that violence in children's marriages is more common than in other times of marriage. According to a study by the International Centre for Women's Studies, girls who get married at a young age are twice as exposed to physical violence as to women in other age groups, and three times as much sexual violence. Moreover, children's brides are more likely to justify their spouses due to physical violence. In this case, there's a good chance the violence will remain secret. In the process of progress, the painting will be at risk of the murder of the violence that could have been worsened. In addition, signs of depression have been found to be more common in children's brides than in husbands over 18 years of age, and suicidal thoughts are higher than in married children at 10 or 17 years of age. According to TÜİK 2014, 1,670 men and 34,629 girls are reported married between 16 and 17 years of age. However, it is also known that the number of children married in Turkey is around 181,000. TİK has limited its research between 16 and 17 years of age and has done it according to official marriage records. Unfortunately, we also know that children's marriage took place at a much earlier age in our country, and that not all of these marriages were legally committed. To resolve the problem, the legal system must prevent the concept of the child bride from changing according to the law. Because according to the Turkish Civil Code, girls who are not 17 years old are not 18 years old, and girls who are not 15 years old are considered daughters-in-law according to the Children's Protection Act. This dissonance between the law makes all the struggles against traditional families marrying their daughters at an early age fruitless. Marriage at an early age also leads to the end of a girl's education. Given that the victims of early marriages have more girls, it can be said that early-year-old marriages have interrupted more girls' education. As a result, the inequality between men and women in society will deepen, and the woman's strength in social, cultural and economic life will weaken. According to information presented by the Ministry of National Education, 174,625 students left elementary schools (first school and secondary school) in 2013, while 234,932 students studying at elementary schools left school in 2014. However, the information revealed did not reveal the gender information of the students who left school. It is important to investigate the number and reasons of our girls who are unable to continue their education, to establish the Parliamentary Research Commission for the protection of girls and to plan more detailed work on the solution of this problem, considering the risk of early marriage. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for the deaths caused by the drownings in Adana province, we propose the opening of the parliamentary investigation under the grounds provided under Article 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter of the Constitution. 1) Coral Danış Beştaş [[Adana]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] 12) Burcu Çelik Özkan [[Mwah.]] [[Siirt]] [[Siirt]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Van]] [[Van]] With the beginning of the summer months, one of the biggest problems that comes into the agenda of Adana province is drowning. Serious deaths are taking place as citizens who are overwhelmed by heat in dam lakes and rivers jump into water uncontrollably through the city's irrigation canals. According to public data, 21 in 2008; 23 in 2009; 21 in 2010; 27 in 2011; 32 in 2012; 34 in 2013; 40 in 2014; 225 in the first eight months of 2015; 225 in the last seven years, 225 people were strangled, and 92 in all these seven years were saved while drowning. It's about the biggest perpetrator of deaths, the lack of adequate security around the city's irrigation channels and canals. As a matter of fact, the death of a 14-year-old boy drowned in the canal in 2008, the family of the deceased was held responsible against the DSI and Metropolitan Municipality, Adana 1st. Although winning the trial they filed at the Supreme Court has brought the deaths to the agenda, the responsible units have been satisfied with only temporary solutions, no study of the basis of the problem has been carried out. In his statement on this subject, DSI has noted that they have placed "warning signs" on the canal edges and have been working to place security barriers around the irrigation canals again, but the barrier application has not been accepted on the grounds that it has broken the "city aesthetic." Partial scarecrows are also dysfunctional. Already "warning signs" are not functional because most of the dead are children and do not know how to read or write. Of course, the application of barriers or the creation of security units on the canal edges is seen as a more effective solution. For it is clear that teams of Adana Police Department have not been able to prevent the death of helicopters from air or again from being drowned on land. According to a study by the University of Harran last January, 36.2 per cent of the drowning events in Adana have been found to be in the most frequent 11-20 years old group and 60.67 per cent of all facts are under 20 years old. It is based on the fact that in an unseasonable and flowing environment, you can act in the mood of playing with friends and not attracting yourself in group psychology. The fact that Adana is a city with a high population density, particularly the height of the young population, explains the increase in the number of under 20 under-age children and adolescents who are drowning in water, including the lack of alternatives to water resources, play and cooling, and lack of control, especially because watering canals pass through the city. The fact that the locations of the drownings in Adana again differ from around the world is based on numerous irrigation channels near the city of Adana. I have stated that the deaths caused by drowning in Adana have taken a serious place on the country's agenda. Moreover, the increasing number of cases has made it necessary for this problem to be immediately brought up and carried out in this direction. Therefore, in order to establish a research commission to investigate the deaths caused by drownings in the water, to identify the problems and the responsible, it would have to be requested to investigate this parliament. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Charter, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday, 29,12,2015 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On December 28, 2015, a decision issued by Şırnak MP Ferhat Encu and his friends (number 419 rank) was launched for 34 civilian citizens who were killed in Roboski on 28/12/2011 with bombs from warplanes, and were first submitted to the General Assembly of Uludere Chief Public Prosecutor's Office for secrecy and later submitted a proposal on 29/12th Tuesday to be submitted to the General Assembly of Turkey's Court of Investigation for information which the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's decision was issued to cover the case with the lack of duty. The first word in favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Ertugrul Kürkcu... Here you are, Mr. Kürkçü, İzmir MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0028par0396	Mr. President, dear friends, we would like you to take a stand in favor of this research motion, because there is a debt to be paid in full to the family, relatives, and the Kurdish people of 34 people whose rights and laws have not been returned to them for four years. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not discussing this for the first time. A study, created just after the massacre, took steps to uncover the truth with a subcommittee of the Human Rights Review Commission. However, the truth that this commission brought before the House was something that was not true. He returned and said to the Kurdish people, to the people of Turkey, that planes hit 34 villagers. We don't know who shot him or why. We don't know if he meant it. We don't know anything, but it's much better today that it's a huge lie. Because at the very least, a criminal prosecution of this parliamentary research commission, which took place at the same time as the Human Rights Commission's review, has revealed the whole truth at least at the level of witnesses. We all know now that the Chief of Staff's Necdet Special Branch has given a corroding conclusion to the facts of the General Staff's decision to keep the Chief of Staff immune from the investigation. At every stage of the process, in Roboski, the villagers who were shot five kilometers from the Turkish border were not part of any violence in any way, that they were peasants and civilians at all levels... 2. Army Command Intelligence Officer, Batman 2. UAV Fleet Command, Diyarbakır 2. Air Force Command, Şırnak MP Commando Brigade Command, has been told by the drone commanders that these are not terrorists, as you say. Shooting them would be a big mistake. However, again, according to the decision made by the General Staff's military prosecutor's office, Chief of Staff Necdet Special himself gave orders for air operations from his own home, and in front of 34 villagers that night, in front of everyone, the truth is a terrorist on the way out. Under international war law, could terrorists be killed like this? In other words, I'll put it aside, but doubt is in favor of the defendant. In this case, the principle has been completely thrown out and we face a massacre. Parliament has not yet uncovered the witnesses behind this massacre and the perpetrators of the massacre, but the public, the human rights advocates who are interested in it, the journalists, have not left this case alone. Now it is fixed that this massacre, essentially, in the interest of a so-called military political victory against the PKK, is worth it, considering that there may be civilians in between. It is worth it. The villagers have been shot, killed, and were asked to shut up after that. Today, in every part of the Kurdish people, everywhere, the pain of this massacre is in the hearts, and this is not evened, and this pain is not cooled, and with every new pain, this pain rages. It is an urgent obligation for parliament to take over this matter. Otherwise, with every new death in the climate of war and conflict that we're now entering, Roboski's wound is bleeding again, and everyone is once again putting aside their hopes that there could be another partnership between the government and the public, a reconciliation. A spiritual disconnect, as acid gnaws at the iron every day, gnaws at the tissue between our peoples, as rust gnaws at the iron. Therefore, the Parliament may, perhaps, be able to do this: If it can free itself from the sovereignty of the administration, it can put a genuine picture in front of the Kurdish people. This is the truth, this is the truth; we face you, we pay you back. We don't accept this massacre by the military, by the government. Then, indeed, a reunification door can be opened. There is no doubt that the responsibility for this massacre is in Necdet Special and the Prime Minister of the period, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Because the Chief of Staff has already issued a statement after the massacre saying that they committed this massacre on the basis of the authority of cross-border operations. The error here is that they do not have the authority to operate across borders; in fact, it is the authority to operate across borders. In the name of the government, it is also a clear fact that the authority of the order was used by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan due to the rules of engagement. These two officials have decided on this massacre. Now all of Turkey has to be even with this massacre because the perpetrators are not even. My dear friends, I say the Clave should repossess it. When he gets his hands on this, he'll see that what we call the Kurdish problem actually reveals his anatomy in this case. It is clear that those who rule Turkey do not make any distinction between Kurdish people and Kurdistan revolutionaries, they have decided that they are one and the same thing. As a matter of fact, all the operations that go on in Tyre today and today and today and today and in Varto, and elsewhere, continue with this logic. Do you say there is no distinction between them? Then, without that distinction, you'll stop saying that what you're dealing with is a terrorist case. That means there's something else. You'll face the truth that you're facing a people's rebellion. Second: The public sees itself as a part of the whole of Kurdistan, acting on the logic that it is an internal market in Kurdistan, knowing that the shortest, cheapest, most efficient way to access the goods is on the other side of the border, where there is an internal market. These two truths were born in conflict with one another, the Kurdish issue. And in order to resolve this matter, if the House sheds light on this massacre, it will have done a very important job. When he sheds light on that, he will take a step forward to understand the conflict we face today. Look, our leaders of Turkey, our Prime Minister, our President, are so kind to understand the rebels. Those who can see a righteous anger, a righteous rebellion, are 100% sure that there is no right to stand up to deal with violence in Turkey today, not to prevent them from attacking them with the harshest words possible in political dialogue. Will parliament -- I really want to hope that since the day I entered this Parliament -- will it show its strength at the beginning of the Iraq War in the early 2000s; will the United States be able to re-establish a parliament that can object to the decision of the rulers by responding to the call of the attack on Iraq? If he can regain his position against the Kurdish people that day, if he can rise up against the military action against Iraq, this Parliament will indeed be the entire Assembly of Turkey, then the Kurds, whose hearts are now blacked out to live under that Assembly, will think once more, or else it will not look so bright. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0029par0406	Thank you, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0030par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0029par0408	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0030par0409	Mr. Speaker, with the incident in Uludere, the Prime Minister of the period has established a bond between him and the Prime Minister. There's something in that frame for our former President. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0029par0410	Two minutes, Mr. Bostanci, without further ado. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0030par0415	Mr. President, dear friends, the incident in Uludere is an unfortunate incident. I also went to Şırnak, where I also embraced those who suffered. The whole nation claimed the pain that was happening at that time. In the diskur here, as expressed in the expression, the suffering of the Kurdish people is not the right attitude, but the pain of humanity. Wherever there's persecution, it's the pain of humanity. It's not a good language, it's not a peaceful language, I'll tell you that for a change.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0031par0417	Did you remember Roboski this year?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0030par0418	Secondly, what happened was an unfortunate incident, yes. It's one of many unfortunate events. There's been terror in this country for thirty years, people who have been killed for thirty years, children who can't be looked at for thirty years. If we want peace, we have to establish a hugging language about all of them. There are no peaceful disks in ethnic prisons. Especially if we want unity and unity in this country. It's not right to have any evidence of such dramatic events, no evidence, no ties of illness without proof, and some sort of political sense of accounting associated with Recep Tayyip Erdogan or something like that. If you are demanding peace, friends, this political language is not a language of peace. On the other hand, there is no difference between Kurdish revolutionaries and Kurdish people. What does that mean? Who are the Kurdish people? It's not just the people who bring the votes of the people sitting there. The Kurdish people are also people who vote for people from very different parties here. They're terrorists you call a curdistan revolutionary, and those terrorists are suffering because they're behind barricades, and they have to leave. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) You Kurdish people have no real pain... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and see the terrorists who have caused them this pain. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0032par0424	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0033par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0032par0426	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0033par0427	Mr. Orator accused us of ethnicizing suffering and not leaving ethnic prison during his speech. So he made a public taunt of our group. Mr. Ertugrul will answer him.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0032par0428	Here you go, Mr. Furcier. Please, let's not afford another tease. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0034par0431	Mr. President, why did you promise?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0035par0432	Mr. President, why are you promising?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0036par0433	Didn't you listen?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0037par0435	He promised me I could answer you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Naci, we're talking about one incident, not many events, but the massacre at Roboski. There are no Turks in that village, no Arabs in the village, no Armenians in the old days, we've seen their graves, but they're not there. So, since there are no non-Kurdish people among those killed... this death, yes, I'm not Kurdish, it affects me, but it basically hurts the Kurdish people who speak Kurdish, that history, that culture, that geography, and the issue in Turkey...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0038par0438	Everyone, everyone, Mr. Ertugrul.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0037par0439	If Turkey had burned everyone, look at you, then I'll accuse you of terrorism, according to him, they wouldn't have said shut up. Those who ruled Turkey. He didn't burn everyone in the same way. He's hurting everyone's mother, his father, his brother, his relative first, and for some reason, the Kurds suffer the most in Turkey because they object to something mass, the most bullets hit them, they get the most beatings, they get the most exiles.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0039par0440	They'll take less bullets without you, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0037par0441	Because of all of this, we're talking about identities because there's a national issue, a right issue, an identity issue. Otherwise, we're following the case of the mutineer for the bread case, but the rebels for the bread case are being treated in another category. Here we are facing another conflict. Calling everything by its name is right to call it what it is. So Turkey has a Kurdish issue, that's within the scope of everything we're facing, we have to solve it by putting its name right. What we're dealing with is not a matter of terrorism, it's a matter of rights.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0040par0443	Yes, thank you. Now, the first word against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal is Mehmet Bekkinoğlu İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0041par0450	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party Group. What we're talking about here today is one of the most tragic issues in the history of the Republic of Turkey: 34 people died, 19 of them were children. My dear friends, I'm afraid it's not known why these people died, who was responsible for these deaths. Like dozens of other incidents in the history of the Republic, this incident has been covered up, that's the truth. Accident or negligence? Now, were the people in this caravan thought to be terrorists? How come TSK couldn't tell it apart? All these questions are in the air. Because both in the judicial process and in the lower commission of the Human Rights Commission -- I believe -- of the Turkish Grand National Assembly -- this case has not been filed. As you know, the first case was transferred to Diyarbakır, Şırnak, then to the military court, and the military courts, as you know, decided not to follow. The Parliamentary Commission has decided, without consulting the testimony or opinion of the people responsible for that day, and has been covered up. Now, friends, the Prime Minister of the era, the Chief of Staff of the period, is not responsible, we don't know that, so we don't blame it that way either, but of course the people who run this country are responsible for everything that happened that happened that day. Therefore, both courts and Parliamentary commissions must apply for their information. This issue, 34 people have died, is unfortunately the most tragic subject in the history of the Republic. There have been dozens of similar incidents since the issue was unexplained, our people continue to die, the children continue to die, and we remain silent, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is silent. We don't have that right, we don't have that luxury, my dear friends. These people, by mistake, by whom, who gave the order, what happened... wasn't it known that this caravan had actually done these things before -- who called it smuggling, some called it border trafficking? Even the simplest questions have not been answered in the courts, nor in the Parliament's research commission, my dear friends. There's not a single suspect. 34 people are dead, 19 of them are children, but not one suspect has been questioned. I don't know what happened, who shot him. My dear friends, dear lawmakers, we're actually talking about a great human tragedy here, but the real problem is law. Here, not only 34 people were slaughtered, but the law was murdered and continued to be slaughtered, my dear friends. If things like this go unpunished in a country, if its wisdom is being mentioned in a country, if its wisdom is being covered by the government, if the secret of the state is being so crudely used, we can't talk about the existence of democracy in that country, we can't talk about human rights, that country can't get out of darkness, my dear friends, my dear friends. This is the problem that Turkey is facing right now. Today we're not just talking about Roboski, we're talking about Turkey. One period was covered, the 1990s. I remember, a lot of my friends from the Justice and Development Party would repeat this sentence, and it was covered. They would say, "These things need to be answered, the state of law." And how many cases, like Roboski, were covered up in their time? What happened? I mean, where are we, my dear friends, when law is needed? What about the unsubs? I remember that Mr. President of the period and the current Prime Minister of our time will have no incidents left unsubstantiated in any way. So, where are the perpetrators of Roboski? Why did 34 people die, my dear friends? Dear lawmakers, in the state of law, the state must do everything within the law, and the fight against terrorism must be done within the law, or the legitimacy of the state will be discussed. So, by covering up events like this, we're depriving this government of being a state of law. If there's no law, if the law doesn't apply to everyone, if the person on the street doesn't believe that they're being wronged, that they're being wronged, that if they lose their faith, there's nothing in that country, we can't talk about human rights, we can't talk about democracy, it's a lie, there's no economy, there's no business, there's nothing. How are you going to get a job for people who don't work in a state where law doesn't work, how do you invest, how do you grow, how do you grow, how do you find jobs for people who don't have jobs? No, guys, without law, nothing happens, and the country just keeps rolling into the dark, so no one's sorry. Unfortunately, our country is rolling into darkness. Today's events in a part of our country have not really been seen in the history of the Republic, dear friends. We had similar incidents in the 1990s, we had unsolveds, terrors increased a lot in that area, from the evacuation of villages to human rights violations, but things were happening heavily in the countryside. Such an incident has never occurred in a region of Turkey, in cities. When we open our mouths, the sides try to push us aside. It's not like that, you guys, you can't take sides here. The other day, our friends came out of this podium and talked. I watched a congressman, a female MP, very sadly -- separated the children's bodies from looking at who killed their mothers. We don't have that luxury, dear friends. These dead are our dead, citizens of this country. The people who were slaughtered four years ago in Roboski were citizens of the Republic of Turkey. If citizens of the Republic of Turkey have been massacred, the law, the judiciary, the Parliament of this country will investigate this issue, and if you accept them as citizens of the Republic of Turkey in essence, but you don't, if you have an agenda, then these people will begin to wonder if I am the citizens of this country. That's the Kurdish issue, that's what we lost our children to. We've been having these problems over the years because a group of citizens of the country have not been accepted as fundamental citizens. This is the basis of the problem we live in today's Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Cizre, Silvio. Yeah, there's terror; yeah, there's going to be a war on terror, so we're not saying that. No country, no sovereign state, will allow other armed people to roam in one part of its own country. But that's not all it is, my dear friends, it's far beyond that. Yes, we know, that the state of the Republic of Turkey can afford to empty those trenches, to remove those barricades, and it will be, but no matter how many people you kill when you do that, you won't have solved it. Therefore, you need to do something else to resolve this matter. The most important of all is to enlighten events like Roboski, my dear friends, to run the law, my dear friends, to carry out equal citizenship. You won't be able to solve anything until you bring equal citizenship into existence. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0042par0461	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the second word is Levent Gök, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0043par0465	You promoted me to Istanbul, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0042par0466	Yeah. It's written in Istanbul, I hope. Ankara MP, I am correcting.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0043par0467	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. I've been promised the Republican People's Party Group on the research proposal we discussed. In fact, for four years, we've discussed this issue in this House, but I find it helpful to re-explain the Uludere's truth once again, in terms of a new House and those who don't watch the issue. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why hasn't justice been done in the case of Uludere, Roboski, who served his fourth year yesterday, and is there any hope that this will happen? Justice didn't happen. It's supposed to be a very complicated, very unknown event. But the only reason justice doesn't happen in the Uludere case is because it's so clear that everything is in the middle, it's so obvious. Mr. President, on December 28, 2011, the families of 34 of our young people living in Roboski. On the other side of Iraq, six or seven hours later, a road with mules and winters, 34 of our young people died in the wake of a 38-million-dollar-a-day caravan returning from the 38-dollar-a-day fund-raiser, where four of them were injured by the bombings of the Turkish Armed Forces. This incident was hidden in those days, my dear friends. Even though several agencies reported 34 people were killed in the Uludere, the incident was tried to cover it up, to hide it, as if the group that died was a PKK group. Unfortunately, perception is so powerful that even today, even at this time we're talking about this, even after four years, this perception is viewed in many parts of Turkey. My dear friends, my fellow citizens, all 34 of our citizens who died that day in Roboski, were children, most of them young people, and none of them belonged to any organization. Was this fact known when the bombing took place? Yes, it was known, and the sad truth was hidden here. Well, if it's known, why were these kids bombed, these guys? My dear friends, MIT has hidden itself from that day until now. MIT said I had nothing to do with it. I didn't give any information. The soldiers said: "We did our duty. " Political power hid itself. But at the end of the day, we're discussing an event involving MIT, political power, and the National Security Council. This isn't some random incident. It's not a case where one person is wrong. It's a matter of the entire state's seniority. How? My dear friends, 38 of our citizens who went to the other side of Iraq on December 28th were watched by drones for five or six hours. In the end, it was decided that they were actually smugglers, but at that moment information from the MIT was given to military authorities that Bahoz Erdal (Fehman Hussein) was in charge of the military wing of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). It was said that "Fehman Hussein will cross the border and act." Who is Bahoz Erdal or Fehman Hussein? The top head of PKK's armed wing is the planner, the enforcer of many terrorist incidents in Turkey. That's how it was heard that all of this was judged at headquarters, at the headquarters, at the headquarters of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and after they were all evaluated, the information that they were smugglers but that Fehman Hussein was among them was so trusted that the button was pressed. Thus, the decision to operate in the Uludere case was made, while 34 of our young people were known to have been killed and four others who had been injured were known to be smugglers, but it was assumed that Fehman Hussein was among them. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, those who ordered operations against this painting, those who ordered the bombings on the planes, took the critical decision: What happens if we bomb this group? If this group was bombed and Fehman Hussein died in them, Turkey's public opinion would see it legitimate. In terms of political power, the capture of an organisation leader like Fehman Hussein would have been an important political gain, and at that time, the critical point is here -- the approval of air operations was presented to the Chief of Staff when the Chief of Staff was second in command. So, where was the Chief of Staff then? At that time, the Chief of Staff was in Ankara at a meeting of the National Security Board. He's been briefed on the phone and approved by the Chief of Staff, my dear friends. When was it taken? During the National Security Board meeting. So whatever members were present at the National Security Council meeting on December 28, 2011, military and civilian officials of the former President, the Prime Minister, the National Security Council were aware of this action and each of them rubbed their hands and waited for Fehman Hussein to be shot. I served in the Parliament Human Rights Commission. When I served on that Commission, when I stated that this incident was being discussed on the opposition Security Council, how could you blame the top state? But, my dear friends, in fact, nine months after giving up our opposition, the Chief of Staff's decision of non-responsibility has been made by the General Staff's Military Prosecutor's Office, and it has been said: "This is a document that has been passed by phone to the Chief of Staff at the meeting of the National Security Council in order to get the approval of the matter, my dear friends. This is a document that has been passed on to the Chief of Staff's non-tasking decision. Thus, the facts were tried again to hide, blacken, cover, and cover a decision that had been made by the National Security Council. In those days, Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin was considering the situation differently, but Idris Naim Şahin listened to his conscience. Again, I was also criticized when I told the National Security Council Secretary General that the information that the PKK would cross the border was in writing the day before the National Security Council meeting. But Interior Minister of the Interior at the time of the Uludere incident, Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin, on November 24, 2014, came out to the press and said the same thing; he was supposedly hiding himself, he didn't know he had any information, but then Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin said that he would cross the border himself by the Turkish Armed Forces had been called by the senior MIT officer and the Turkish Armed Forces had been informed that Bahoz Erdal would cross the border. Although the authorities of the Armed Forces have repeatedly asked if the information is correct, the MIT official has insisted that the information is correct. After all, on multiple official intelligence reports and verbal phone information from MİTI, unfortunately, the Uludere incident occurred. My dear friends, we discussed this at the time. Now, these facts, which have come to light, order us to renegotiate the Uludere incident, to renegotiate the Parliament's situation. Why does he order it? He commands in the name of man, commands in the name of conscience, commands in the name of morality. Because all the children who died there were actually children of foster parents. None of those children were connected to the PKK, but even when those children were shot, government officials did not go to the scene and rescue the wounded, even though they knew how to shoot them. Some of the dead died of loss of blood and cold, I'm afraid. Thus, in the case of Uludere, the government has lost its mind from beginning to end in Roboski's case. The state mind has been resolved, my dear friends. But the families of Uludere have taught a full - time lesson eight months after that. On 21 August 2012, a vehicle carrying our troops in Uludere took over; in the same village, in the village where 34 of our young people died, nine of our soldiers were killed, four soldiers were injured. When that military vehicle was knocked down, it was the mothers of the families whose children were killed by members of the Turkish Armed Forces who went to the side of that military vehicle and removed our martyrs, our soldiers, our wounded, our wounded. So they certainly didn't have a PKK connection, they were all members of their country, they helped our soldiers, they took them out, they took them out wounded, and they brought them to the hospital, but for four years we haven't been able to extend a hand to those people and give them a sense of justice. It's a shame. They're having an emotional breakdown. I wish Congress would take care of it and solve the problem. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0044par0485	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Yilmaz junc, Bartın MP, the last word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal... Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0489	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. On December 28, 2011, a commission for the investigation of the killings carried out on the Iraqi border in Şırnak Uludere is being demanded by the HDP Group, and they are asked to be carried out on today's agenda. This incident, which resulted in the deaths of 34 of our citizens in Uludere, has deeply upset us all. No conscience can truly accept such a promise. On that day, we all -- there are members of the assembly -- we condemned the incident, and all political parties agreed that whatever it took to find and punish the people responsible for this incident, everyone must do their part. The government and relevant ministries launched administrative investigations as soon as the incident took place.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0492	In the dark zones?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0493	In accordance with the legislation, the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Commission has discussed the issue...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0494	What did he say, Mr. Erdogan? This investigation will not remain in the dark zones, he said.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0495	...has formed a subcommittee and conducted a review of the area and submitted his report to the House.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0496	Is it in the dark zones?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0497	Dear God, listen, I'm just getting started, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0498	I'm waiting.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0499	You must have been on the Human Rights Commission.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0500	I was the Vice President, yes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0501	You were the Vice President. You investigated this incident, and the subcommittee was Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0046par0503	We cried together, all of us.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0047par0504	Let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0505	You've looked through all the details, made some identifications.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0047par0506	Mr. Bronze, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0045par0507	Here's your report, stay and make a report.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0048par0508	We have opposition, and we have opposition like bricks!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0049par0509	We've written opposition like bricks.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0050par0510	Sir, let's not interfere with the speaker on the stand, please.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0511	There's opposition in this report, yes. The report is all about opposition.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0050par0512	Mr. Bronze, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0513	In this report, the views of all lawmakers along with the opposition have been reflected here, the examinations have been reflected here, and what issues have been identified here. Every institution, every interest...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0052par0514	What about the perpetrators? Where are the perpetrators?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0515	The perpetrators will be investigated by the judge. We're not doing a criminal investigation here. It's the state's attorney's office who will investigate the perpetrators. Now, there are things in this report that have been identified. He will do whatever he has to do about the issues identified in this report. We've set up a legal commission, he's done his job, we want to set up a commission again. The judiciary has launched investigations, both the military prosecutor's office and the public prosecutor's office have been in the area with all their ministers. Our Prime Minister at the time, Mr. Emine Erdogan, the wife of our current President, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the main opposition leader, has all been to the region; they have met with the victims in Uludere, Gülyöz, in those villages, and they have taken statements of those victims. You have received their opinion as a commission, you have listened to the authorities in that region, you have uncovered a report in light of property managers, military officials, all in light of this, and it is obvious that the work of the government will produce the results that are required to be drawn from this report. Now, before I mention the work of the Uludere Commission, I would like to express in particular that the relatives of those who died here have been compensated according to the Law on the Responsibility of Anti-terrorism. The state is here. Yes, there's been a mistake. I'm paying you for this mistake. In addition, the Prime Minister's office also provided $3.4m in funding and payments, and paid 28 of our deceased citizens and 28 women. The villages, which were victims, were invested in education, infrastructure, roads and drinking water; all support and investments in the education of children were provided. Attempts have been made to open a new border crossing in the region in order to ensure that people living in the region can find a solution to the problem of income and trafficking, but no progress has been made because the Iraqi state is not sympathetic to the issue. The Chief of Staff has launched an investigation into the incident, the Interior Ministry has appointed investigators, has launched administrative reviews, and their report has been submitted to the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission. Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly has established and conducted this commission with the joint motion of all political parties in the Commission for Human Rights Review. The subcommittee conducted inspections and interviews with all concerned within a month of the incident. The most important reason for the Uludere incident is the ongoing terrorist incidents in the region, valued lawmakers. Our security forces are in the area to fight terrorism. We all know that if the separatist terrorist organization didn't have terrorist activities in our country's borders, especially in our Southeast District, we wouldn't need that kind of action. Therefore, the PKK and other terrorist organisations are the first to blame. When the terror is over, the region will have peace and quiet. The PKK's goal is clear, it has been disturbing our entire nation for over 30 years, and it has been harming the Kurdish citizens who live in the region. Our government and our security forces are fighting hard to free the people of the region from this persecution of terror. In this struggle, martyrs are fought. Yesterday we had martyrs, today we have martyrs. Once again, we ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. We have civilians who have lost their lives in this struggle. Of course we're sad, but without terror, without this struggle, this hand, these events will not have happened, all of us sad, all of us sad. Those who embrace and discuss the separatist goals of the terrorist organization must know that Turkey's indivisible integrity is protected and protected despite the separatist terrorist organization, all traitors, and those who use them. The brotherhood between Turks and Kurds that lasted over a thousand years, the union of history and fate is the antidote to all separatisms. More than 30 years, the separatist terrorist group, which failed to form a sibling quarrel between the Turks and Kurds, will not succeed after this. After four years in the Uludere, I feel that even though all the state's institutions were willing to stand on this subject and wrap the wounds with precision, it would be of no use to state that this has been happening on purpose, to protect and strengthen our brotherhood. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has conducted a review of the Human Rights Uludere Subcommittee. There are issues the judiciary investigates, administrative investigations.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0053par0524	There's a restraining order, a mistrial. The military court has decided not to follow, and you don't know it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0054par0525	Instigation... Check it out, get a bride over there.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0526	When we re-establish a research commission as Congress, the issues we're going to review, the people we're going to listen to, the documents we're going to bring back, they're all going to be the same.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0053par0527	What about the administrative investigation? What did the executive do?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0528	Therefore, for the same purpose, once again, after so much time has passed, to demand that the commission be set up once again would be renewed.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0055par0529	Is it finished so it can be renewed? The pain isn't over, it's not over.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0056par0530	Did you do what was necessary?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0051par0531	What's important is that you've already stated in opposition that in order for these events not to happen after this, they should be more careful about this when they're fighting terrorism. Opposition, the subcommittee's report must be evaluated one, all together. Therefore, I believe there is no need for a new commission. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0534	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0058par0535	Then do as you must, do as the previous commission required.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0536	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0537	Dear Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0538	Sir, the orator spoke to me at the time, referring to the Human Rights Commission, and referring to me -- I was acting chair of the Human Rights Commission at that time -- and that was not in line with the truth.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0539	But he didn't say a word about you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0060par0540	No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0541	Sir, he's made speeches that have been binding on me.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0542	Like what?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0543	I was the Vice President of the Commission, you got a statement, it was in the reports... and by twisting the truth...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0544	No, he didn't say anything in his favor or against her.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0545	Sir, that's why I'd like to speak according to Article 69, as a taunt.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0546	Now, look, no teasing, if you want an explanation, I'll give you my word on your position for a minute.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0547	No, I'll talk to you on the stand for two minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0548	Now, Mr. Godkulu, I listened carefully.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0549	So I listened.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0550	In fact, if there is, I'll give it to him. You were Deputy Commissioner at that time?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0551	Yes, sir, I was the Vice President of the Human Rights Commission.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0552	Yeah, that's all he said, but other than that, he's the one who...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0553	Sir, look, by telling you who I am...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0554	...in your favor or against you, nothing has happened.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0555	Mr. President, by saying myself, you took the statement, you put it in the report. He said, "Well, it didn't really reflect the truth." That's why I'm asking for 69.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0061par0556	No teasing, sir, no teasing.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0557	Now, Mr. Godkulu, look, please... I mean, I'm really trying to apply the Civil Code here...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0558	Mr. President, a minute has passed, a minute has passed here by talking.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0559	I understand, but you have to understand. Look, I'm telling you, I didn't see this as a taunt, but since your name came up, you can make a one-minute statement at your place.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0560	Mr. President, he's committed myself. So I can talk there for two minutes, so it's all over now.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0561	No, I mean...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0562	I'd like to address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0563	Okay, if you'd like to address it, but we're not in the middle of this right now, so we've got our agenda, we've got our lines. I mean, just because I want to address the General Assembly doesn't mean he has the right to make a promise.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0059par0564	Mr. President, I mean, you could use two minutes of appreciation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0565	Mr. President, I promise... Guys, let's give an explanation to Mr. Sezgin. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0062par0568	Mr. President, I was the Vice President of the Human Rights Commission. Roboski was one of the most violent massacres of the time in Uludere, and the Turkish Armed Forces' aircraft was used and combat vehicles were used. The similar incident took place in 1993 in the village of Kokoğeli in Şırnak, and more than 30 of our citizens died. This is a crime against humanity, sir, for the record, and a crime against human law. There has not yet been a trial in Turkey, but the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Interior and the Chief of General Staff of the period will not be able to escape the judiciary at any time and will be tried in Turkey or the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0569	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0063par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0571	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0063par0572	Mr. President has expressed that during his speech, HDP's request for research and a commission to be made in accordance with this motion is intended to restore suffering. So he made a public taunt. I'd like to answer for him according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0057par0573	Mr. Baluken, please -- I'll give you two minutes, but -- let's not challenge another taunt. Of course, in the end, there will be criticism against him, so we have to deal with it naturally. Two minutes, if you don't mind a new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0063par0577	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Orator mentioned that the pain would be renewed here, but if he had done some research, he would have seen that the pain never ends, as fresh as the first day, standing in all the hearts. Why are those pains still so fresh? Because after that operation, Prime Minister Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan thanked the Chief of Staff after this massacre, the media ignored the massacre here for twenty-four hours, not a corporal has been removed from office in judicial and administrative investigations so far, all of the court decisions have been carried out and on top of all of this we have committed this massacre, but with compensation, we will pay for it. Minister of Interior İdris Naim Şahin of the period had already been killed from the bench, they would have been arrested -- they would have been arrested. He confessed. Then, after that feud between you, Idris Naim Şahin, after he was taken from the Ministry, made the massacre openly against the public; yes, the state did it; a high-ranking official of the MIT led to the massacre of the army with false intelligence. Now, there's a massacre this obvious; there's only one legal and administrative investigation reality that hasn't been conducted; there's still a situation where we face the truth with a bleeding wound, and you're still talking about coming back here and renewing the pain. We can't possibly accept such a situation. Look, Mr. Bostanci just said, "Why is this the only suffering of the Kurdish people?" But if you remember, that massacre wasn't even canceled somewhere around the time of the funerals. So, what you're going to do here today is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is extremely important in terms of whether this pain is going to be the pain of all Turkey, it's the turnusol paper. Come, I say we all set up a new research commission to uncover all the details of this massacre. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0064par0586	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The People's Democratic Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0065par0590	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0064par0591	Did you ask for a sufficient number of decisions?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0065par0592	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0064par0593	You want roll call. Yes, I'm going to submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes, but there is a request for a roll call before the vote, and now I'm going to grant it. First, after I've identified enough members who have asked for a roll call, I'm going to check them with electronics. Mr. Gök, Mr. Gourkulu, Mr. Sekteklu, Mr. Şekeroğlu, Mr. Şişel, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Cicek, Mr. Kesici, Mr. Bay Bayraktuttan, Mr. Gökdüdır, Mr. Sarıbal, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Karbüyik, Mr. Torun, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Yilmaz. Now I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to request that the members I've read their names do not enter the electronic device for roll call. Initiating roll call.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0066par0601	3, 2, 1, 0, time's up. You can't give me that compass, it's not a compass; you can't take it, time's up. Why are you doing anything against the law as a Court?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0067par0602	Mr. Ozcan, look, it's time.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0066par0603	Brother, time's up, compass... Mr. Court, Mr. President, time's up, you're getting a compass. That's not gonna happen. No, no. Yeah, that's not gonna happen! It's just plain illegal in there. No way!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0068par0606	Mr. Altay, I've secured what happened after the deadline, and they're not accepted.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0066par0607	Mr. President, eight compasses went there after the deadline.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0068par0608	They're not acceptable, no. We got them.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0066par0609	What a shame! Come on, don't break the law so much!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit01spe0068par0611	Congressmans, let's not let our compass-giving MPs leave, we're pairing the ballots with the ruler now, so we can ask again. Congressmans, we have 158 MPs entering the system, and then we will have a number of meetings if we have six more members of parliament here after we cross-reference them with the ruler, along with our deputies who gave us the compass. By the way, 20 of our lawmakers get 184, because they demand it. Osman Meten, Bursa MP? Here. Abubekir Bal, our Diyarbakır MP? Here. Mehmet Habib Soluk, our Sivas MP? Here. Orhan Miroğlu, Mardin MP? Here. Ahmet Sami Ceylan, Corrum MP? Here. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya MP? Here. There's enough for a meeting. Now, I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0068par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (29/12/2015), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The 12th draft of the Law Proposal, which was distributed under pressure, was to be placed on the agenda in the 1st place of "Law Bills and Offers and Other Affairs From Commissions" before 48 hours later; On Tuesday, December 29, 2015 (today) until the meeting of oral questions and other audit issues is not discussed and the meeting of legislation and proposals and the meeting of Law Proposal No. 12 is completed; On Wednesday, December 30, 2015, until the completion of the 4th Amendment; The meeting of the General Assembly on Thursday (December 31st), in the event of the meeting of the talks on Wednesday (December 30, 2015) until the 4th Bill of Law, Until the completion of the daily schedule at 2400 p.m. at the top of the list, 06, 07, 13, 14, 20, 21, 27 and 28 January 2016, Wednesday and Thursday at 2400 hours; Keep up the good work, The Law Proposal 12 is to be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the following tables, It's recommended. The first statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is Halis Dalklıc İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Dalkilic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0069par0025	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the proposal on behalf of our group. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, before the memory of our beloved martyrs who gave their lives in the defense of our beloved homeland, I ask my Lord's mercy, my condolences to their families, and I pray to our veterans for a speedy recovery. On this occasion, I pray for the mercy of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, our country poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who is the 79th anniversary of his death, and that his place may be in heaven, and that my Lord may have him in heaven. Dear MPs, the meeting of the 12th rank of Law Proposal, on Wednesday (December 30, 2015), until the meeting of the 12th Law Proposal on Wednesday (December 30, 2015), until the completion of the agenda, until the completion of the 4th Bill of Law and Proposals, and the meeting of the General Assembly on Wednesday (December 29, 2015), until the meeting of the 12th Bill of Law until the meeting of the 12th Bill of Law until the completion of the 4th Bill of Law until the completion of the 4th Bill of Law. The time is 24 p.m. on Wednesday (January 28, 2016) and on Thursday (January 28, 2016). It has been suggested that the Law Proposal No. 12 be considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, and that its sections be in the following tables. I announce that we are in favor of our group's offer, and I hereby salute the High Council. I wish you good work.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0070par0032	Thank you, Mr. Dalkulic. The first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal is İstanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0071par0035	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I've been sworn in against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I don't think the Prime Minister knows that you've brought the 12th row of Law Proposal as the basic law; I'm sure he'll be angry with you, even if he is. Mr. Prime Minister has sent a message to the public, to the community, parliament, 20 times regarding this new period, that harmony with the opposition in Parliament's work will be sought, that it will be forced to do so. When I was reading the government program, they had an explanation here as well. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, I think he's abroad, but I hope they tell him what I'm saying -- the group has exposed the Prime Minister. I mean, it's a clear sign that the group's deputy presidents, the way the Prime Minister says on this bench and believes in his sincerity, can't make a 12-point law proposal -- we find a lot of articles positive, or even incomplete -- to bring them in as a fundamental law, trust in the power of the ruling majority, to bring them in at this time in Parliament, to show that the integration and cooperation of the ruling majority cannot be done much at this time. Congressmans, we passed the laws of over 2,000 articles in this House in three days. Old friends know, the basic law is laid out in Article 91 of the Turkish National Assembly. There's one thing I say on this stand on every occasion: the laws, laws, regulations can be broken everywhere, but if there's one place where the Constitution, the law, the law, the law, and the charters can't be broken, it's here, but you're putting this chair under the legislature of your majority. I don't see that in you; it's not true. This may be a breach of the Civil Charter. There have been several efforts in past-term parliaments, and the Civil Charter settlement commissions have been set up. Maybe in the coming days, it'll be looked at again. Perhaps the Civil Code -- if the Parliament can be co-operated to make it more functional -- there may be certain setbacks, but you, lawmakers, if we don't comply with this, you can't expect anyone in this country to obey the law, the law, the law, in this country, in the city, in the village, in the town. Parliament shouldn't be a bad example. The fact that the 12th Law Proposal, brought to you by the AKP group proposal, is the main law is clearly against the Turkish National Assembly's Constitution; do not do this, desist from this. With this law coming out, we know that different parts of society, especially members of the Turkish Armed Forces, will breathe, even if only a little bit, so we will generally take a positive view of the law, except for our reservations on the 8th and 9th amendments of the law. Therefore, we are prepared to help you in this matter in terms of time, but we do what we want here with the majority of fingers, regardless of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's ruling. If it creates understanding in this Parliament, it creates anarchy, it creates chaos, it creates dissonance; there is no need for that. I think the ruling party should revisit the group proposal. Mr. President should take a break. From here, the fundamental law of this proposal should be adopted, according to Article 91, and we should be able to meet with its power, opposition, in accordance with its laws in accordance with the Civil Code. Or what? Otherwise, the opposition can't stand by while the Civil Code is being trampled, underfoot, and you'll appreciate the fact that it can't be watched, and we'll all work here in the mornings using the rights, resources, obstructions that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has given us. Look, 2015 is over, we're going to a new year. I hope this new year for Turkey, for our citizens, the year of happiness for the nation of nations, the year of prosperity, the year of peace, the year of peace will be the year of peace for us, but when we enter 2016, we will use the powers that the nation has not given us, in violation of the Civil Code, in violation of such rules. People don't give us authority here to commit unlawful conduct. On the contrary, people have given us the authority to establish and strengthen the laws of citizens and citizens. Dear lawmakers, there's not going to be both the torba and the base, so there's a very clear conflict. I ask you again, sincerely and with good intentions, to come back from this wrong. To discuss this law as a fundamental law is to create a bad path in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In fact, the presidency should not adopt this proposal due to violation of the Civil Code. We're making a motion to investigate the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, to do so, ma'am, the friends in the Laws are very skilled, sir, this is contrary to the Constitution's here and here. It's a very special effort for us and other parties to send their motions back, but when it comes to discussing a proposal given from the ruling party, for some reason, the eyes of the Presidential Court, the Speaker, the eyes of the Speaker of Parliament, and the staff of the other legislators in the Law are closed. And the staff that opened their eyes, they're changing their position, and that's impossible to understand. We'll also ask the Speaker at the appropriate time. There are children who have been raised well in the law, there are friends, there are no objections, but when they make a comment outside of the will of power, their duties change, they're subjected. And that is not an attitude worthy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dear friends. Mr. President, for example, we just asked for a roll call. This is a right given by the Civil Code, an opportunity. I see the lines of opposition are more crowded, the lines of power are empty. The ruling lawmakers will drink tea and coffee in the lobby, and we're drinking -- there's a fashion of tea today, and we don't know whether the teas in the House are illegal or not -- I don't object to that, but you don't raise your hand when you walk in the door two minutes before the vote. Guys, he didn't send you here to raise your hand on something you don't know what it is. (HPP) Of course you will, you will act in a group of disciplines, but this Parliament is being watched, citizens, the voters who sent you here are watching this Assembly and are waiting for more solid, more consistent, more legal work to be done, citizen. You have to be careful with that. And here's the shame, and here's the shame: it's empty, as you can see. At the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we don't say that the government's 26-member minister should crash here, but at three o'clock, the General Assembly is coming to six o'clock, and I haven't seen a government member in the General Assembly. It's the disrespect of conduct to all of us -- not only opposition -- to you and to us, to live.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0072par0050	Faruk Bey is here. You shook hands with Faruk Bey
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0071par0051	We don't want a disrespectful executive body in Turkey and Turkey in the Grand National Assembly. Mr. President, you'll also have to make an attempt on this matter. Does Parliament work without the government? Is it necessary for the minister to sit there during the commission when the law is discussed? We wonder where the government is, what the government is engaged in. The government has to explain to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey every day in these difficult, difficult days in which Turkey lives these days. To sum up, I'm speaking to the esteemed executives of the ruling party: withdraw this group's proposal while the road is near. Stop discussing the Law Proposal Number 12 as the basic law. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a law-making place, not a law-breaking place. Come, save the House from this shame. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0073par0055	Thank you, Mr. Altay. The second statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is from Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Since he's not here right now, I'd like to call Mr. Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal, last word against me.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0059	Congressmans, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're back with one of your classic counseling board proposals. I mean, yeah, it's the end of the year, and everybody wants to do a show, and they want to go on vacation, but this shift is now...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0075par0061	We'll be here Thursday night, I hope.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0076par0062	The devil needs to be punished.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0063	So when the market doesn't sell the goods in the afternoon, there's only one friendship left. That's how we see it when we sell bagels in the afternoon; if we made a profit, we'd give them the rest for half price, if we had 10 left over, we'd give them the 5th. Now, let's make a basic law here, and let's finish this. So when we do this one way, dear friends, you take it out, and then you come in and say, "Mr. President used to do a lot of it, and I tease him when he was the vice president of the group, so maybe he'll get a promise. - Sir, we said over there, we did it over there. Yeah, okay, you came in there with good intentions, it's the end of the year, it's here, you've done it, you've done it again. Well, in that report -- when it's being done -- we don't know what we said, which one of us criticized, which one of us was in favor, which one of us was in favor, and which one of us was against it. I mean, mercy, we're looking at it like this right now. Chapter one is six, section two is six, all 12 articles. Shame, shame! It's a shame! Now, okay, we get it... we said that last week so we could meet. We also met with friends as the Prince. There are groups that don't accept it. They're good, they're good, they're good.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0077par0067	It's urgent.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0068	It's urgent. Good.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0077par0069	It's temporary, you know, things are going to happen at the end of the year.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0070	Mr. Kabbat, I'll speak more heavily if we go in there now. There's no government, so since we haven't passed the law yet... A government bill came in, dear friends, we met last week. It was a government bill, and it was time-consuming. I don't understand now. I told you that day, I don't think Mr. Kubat was here, Mr. Agbal was here. Since we met upstairs at the Commission, we said: "This is the Council of Ministers." The bill is being passed, signed. What ministry are they from? I mean, we just got a 20-point offer, and there's a lot of stuff in it, and we added it, and we put it here. As a result, we're building a kiss-ass law. So we're heading towards a general error, the premiere. Look, we've talked about this a lot. I'm telling you over and over again, you've written the book. You're not listening. I mean, we made a bag of laws, it was called the basic law, and there were 48 Speakers in it, and seven or eight of them were against the Civil Code. So, the original law that came in contained materials that had nothing to do with their proposals and plans, so we made it legal here. So, even though last week's law was a clause in the clause in the clause of the clause in the article, I put the same law in our election statement, but I made a motion to my friends in Article 2 of the same law, and immediately they came running to me from the Laws. Why can't this happen? No, my brother, when I put 48 of them, when the President of Laws wrote this -- in this book, the Law in Torba, which was a chapter in the book I wrote -- despite the letter of the Speaker of Parliament... Now that Mr. Recai is gone, I don't know if he's smart.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0078par0076	I'm here, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0077	In the writing of Mr. Berber, sir, we did the right thing. Oh, here's the wise guy. I mean, we're taking out 48 articles, even though the Speaker sent them in with a report, and there's a fundamental law that's happening to us, and we're seeing each other. Come on, you said there was a lot of them, a lot of them. Now, there's 12 points here, folks. Let's sit on the curve, let's talk straight. Yes, if there's an emergency, we call it the National Movement Party to take the necessary structural measures. But if we spend time here in a boat fight and argue among the groups over a boatman's quarrel, and then come and put it here as the basic law... I'm really surprised. Mr. President himself served as the group's vice president. I'm just saying what happened -- our friends are sitting behind you -- because it was only last week. In the motion, we crossed out that section, we initialed it, and there was only the normal part of it, which was the law, where there was that regulation. Look, it's not the same substance. Our friends didn't accept it. Well, now, how are you going to accept that? The 91st Article of the Civil Code is very clear, here it says, what can be the fundamental law? For God's sake, they read to us every time, and how do we do that?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0079par0081	They didn't read it. They wouldn't do it if they opened it and read it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0080par0082	Give us a present from that book.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0083	You can buy it with money, bro, it's on the market, it's on the Internet, it's cheap, but if you visit, I promise you, I'll sign it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0081par0084	He didn't give it to me either, guys.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0085	New friends are free, I won't give them to the old ones.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0082par0086	Old people get embarrassed when they read it. Old people get embarrassed when they read it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0074par0087	Now, for what it's worth, we've been through this, but now, again, we're going through a new mistake. You guys, on the other hand, I really don't think...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0083par0088	Know your turn, he hasn't given it to me yet.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0084par0089	The ancients have already written that book, and the ancients of the AKP have written it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0085par0090	Did you give it to Mr. Taraya?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0083par0091	No, not to me either.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0092	He doesn't need it, he knows it all, he's the one who brings the sanctions, and we wrote this book because of him, so it's worth it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0087par0093	Even in that book, the AK PARTY has a lot of work to do.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0094	Free remembers, we had a rowing session at midnight that day. We're here, we're closed, we're supposed to get a briefing and shut it down. Mr. Intellectual has arrived, we'll make a change in the CMK 153, just like last week's sentence delays. It's already finished, and we've shrunk the mouth off the bag. New friends must be wondering, for thirty-seven days, until Saturday-Monday sahhur, sometimes without even sahhur, their lack of conscience... He's laughing now...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0088par0095	I had sahhuru made downstairs, don't be cruel.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0096	Look, some of our friends went and did their shurhur, and the others came, and we took turns after the sahhur.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0088par0097	For the record, we've always done sahhur, we've always done shuru, down below.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0098	Get the paperwork, get the hours out. We did sahur, and there were days when we took turns sahuring because at that moment they were trying to pass another substance, and we were resisting. Therefore, we must not deny the contribution of Mr. Scholar to the writing of the book.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0089par0100	It's a lot of help, a lot of it!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0101	There's an irony here, and I'm telling you, if we take the nail out of what we call the basic law, we'll make ourselves laugh here, that's what we're saying here. We've discussed a law that has been determined by the Parliamentary Presidency to violate 48 separate articles of the Civil Code. What's he saying now? The 91st article is here, it's obvious, we don't need to read for two hours, we don't have time. He counted the conditions for it to be the basic law. When you look here, there are a few convictions, my friends. The new friends are curiously asking, but it's in there. See, now, whichever law meets this, look at the issues of whether you have a take - if you have a number - if you have a number - that include general principles that will systematically or exponentially change a rule of law completely or exponentially.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0089par0103	For example, the Penal Code, the Tax Code.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0086par0104	Civil Law, like the Law of Debts. It's not one of them; look, these are the conditions that have to happen, one by one, all at a time. ..to show the basic concepts of the special laws in his field...... he doesn't exist either. There's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... He's saying the numbers, he's saying not to cross the 30th. What does that mean? If you go beyond 40 or 50, you can make one of them into two parts of 25 articles or twenty-five. It says, "What is reasonable" doesn't make a section of 12 articles. Based on what the law says, it's what the Civil Code says. So, now, here, let's go through this, okay. But why are we having this argument, guys? Normally, last week, the group's vice presidents discussed it here, and we were here together, so, yeah, we thought if there were things, we'd catch up. Let's do it. We have no objection to its content. Look, some things need to be kept up, there's a deadline. There's nothing more natural. In fact, we've already made our objections as they leave, and we've said our wrongs, we've said our wrongs, we'll say them again, we'll grow them, but once we've been out of the Council of Ministers and signed them, we've come here with a new bill, a new proposal, and we've forgotten. If we say it, the House won't issue that law; the bureaucrats will bring it up, and the ministers will sign it without looking. I'm sorry, but if they did, it's our right to ask why they didn't add it. We don't think it's right to make a law that way. I repeat: yes, if structural measures are required -- not by temporary transfers -- many of them are already in the government's action plan, many are in our election statements as promises. What I'm saying is stop the unnecessary, divisive negotiations, those, those, the arrangements, that will endanger the unity of the nation, the integrity of the nation. Bring the arrangements for our country here, bring them to the Plan and Budget Commission, the Justice Commission; no, let's sit down, we'll set up a joint commission, we'll identify the emergency ones, knock them off, knock them off. We're here as the National Movement Party, but we're here with the boatman's quarrel, he said that. He said that. The other one says, "Let's have a drink, the other one says, let's have coffee and drink. There was no tea, there was no coffee. There was no coffee. There was no coffee fight. There was no tea, there was no coffee fight. There was no coffee fight. We agreed. We agreed. He says, let's not waste time on these things, let's take time to solve people's problems, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0090par0109	Thank you, Mr. Günal. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the second and final statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0091par0112	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the AKP Group's proposal. Although it's in his favor, the entire content of my speech, the frame, of course, will be against him. Because we do not discuss the real problems of the people in this parliament, the real problems of the country. Unfortunately, according to the AKP Group's schedule, this Parliament is working overtime in accordance with the issues set by it, and since it does not discuss the fundamental issues in Turkey here and does not discuss the solution proposals here, there is blood everywhere in the country, and we are constantly discussing a number of palliative laws that have nothing to do with it. I'm late for this conversation, and I'd like to thank Mr. President for his understanding. I'll tell you why I'm late: a family of soldiers visited our group, the family of a soldier detained by the PKK. They are suffering a great deal, and they are suffering a great loss, and they want the Parliament to take initiative, the Assembly to take action, and the detained soldiers and police in the hands of the PKK to be reunited with their own families. We also told them about the work the People's Democratic Party had done before. So we've summarized the work we've done so that we can bring the government and government officials to the point where a commission of four political parties can take initiative, conduct talks, set up ground, and bring these children back to their families, and we've given them talks on how to stop this conflict and war environment, which can prevent the resolution of this issue. We see that Congress will continue to be insensitive about this, but we, the HDP, will continue to conduct our own efforts until the problems of our families are resolved, until all the detained police and soldiers are reunited with their families. Now, we haven't been able to discuss the fundamental issues here in this House in a long time. There's a policy of polarization out there that's been increasing such constant tension. There's talk of treason, treason, etcetera, and so forth, but Parliament is discussing legislations that have nothing to do with the agenda outside, as if there were no problems at all. Friends, nowhere in the world is that kind of parliamentary work. Look, there's still a lot of law against curfews. People are looking for us. It has no legal basis, it is contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to the relevant clause of the State Special Administration. There, the civilian population is devastated, the settlements are destroyed, dozens of young people die every day, police, soldiers, armed youths or civilians who are there, people die every day, not on the agenda of this Parliament. Yeah, can that happen, guys? All of you, put your hands on your conscience for once. Look, right now 18 funerals at Şırnak State Hospital have been waiting to be buried for fifteen days, all civilians. There's 57-year-old Taybet with 11 children and three-month-old Miray baby. The morgue capacity of Şırnak State Hospital has been left to rot in conditions that are inappropriate for 8 people and 10 other funerals. Yeah, well, we've talked to the Home Office a dozen times, so what you're doing is already illegal, but if you insist, at least remove this curfew for burial of these funerals in 24 hours, 48 hours, one hour, two hours. In no war in the world, there was no stopping funerals from being buried, no decomposing funerals. They left Mama Taybet's funeral on the street for eight days, and after eight days of arguing here, they allowed that funeral to be taken away. We're losing our humanity, is that a thing? That's the real problem with this country. For one thing, those funerals shouldn't happen, those deaths shouldn't happen. We say, without distinction, that no one of our people should die, that Congress should discuss. And you have decided in battle, and you will continue with the whole concept of war. Now, every war has its law, its morality, its rules bound by international contracts, its values created by humanity, its established cultural traditions. I mean, is there a hostage position on a funeral like this? That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0092par0119	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0091par0120	Yeah, well, instead of you guys talking about it all the time, just come back and say it on the stand one day.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0092par0121	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0091par0122	So why don't you agree with what I'm saying?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0092par0123	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0091par0124	Do you object to the burial of a funeral? If they call that war for an hour, those funerals will be buried.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0092par0125	What's that got to do
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0093par0126	Mr. Big Brother, Mr. Big Brother, please...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0094par0127	What, you're not yelling!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0095par0128	So that's it, you lost your conscience, that's it?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0093par0129	Please, let's not interfere with the witness on the stand. Mr. Baluken, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0095par0131	Look, we've always said that these things can be solved by the political channel, the political channel, the dialogue, the conversation, the solution, not the weapon.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0096par0132	All right, let's keep the guns quiet.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0097par0133	Don't give me that shit.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0095par0134	We say it again: we tell the state, we tell the PKK. We're not in a position to make one-sided calls. If it were up to us, we'd argue that there would be an immediate lack of conflict today and the opening of dialogue channels. We've said it over and over and over and over again, but if you shut down the dialogue channels, Parliament doesn't have a solution to problems, people lose hope in democratic politics, unfortunately, these problems will increase. Look, the Democratic Autonomous Project, which we gave to the Constitutional Compromise Commission on our party programme this weekend just so politics could discuss this business, has discussed the entire election work in a general assembly of the Democratic Society Congress. It's a big lynch campaign; there's no country divided. There's no betrayal, there's no traitor. Friends, there's no such thing. It's on our party schedule. We've defended democratic autonomy, self-government rights for the administrative system in Turkey, we've offered it to the Constitution, we've said it in all the electoral squares, and the people have voted for us knowingly. When you study that text, you can't find a single sentence saying that this country needs to be divided. In the process of decision-making and governance, we have said that the municipality should have increased its right to authority. Look, we're not the only ones who say that. I mean, if it wasn't for this lynching campaign... That's what the AKP said. The AKP also, look, in 2004 -- I have all the text here -- but in the bill that was vetoed by President Sezer -- proposed that all ministries except the Ministry of Justice, National Defence, Internal Affairs, Finance, Labour and Social Security be removed and that these areas be transferred to local governments. In fact, he said, "Let national education, health care, industry, public service, culture and tourism, agriculture, the Ministry of Forestry." ▪ The needs of environmental, youth and sports, social services -- at work, he listed a number of different institutions -- all of which should be given to the local authorities again. He says it's the CHP. Look, the CHP also drafted a radical reform bill in the Local Governments Programme in 2000. Culture, pre-school education, health care; in all these topics, he said that these powers should be given to local governments, that he would provide autonomy for local governments. So, for one thing, as long as the dialogue channels are open, there's no such thing as division in this country; there's no need to create any paranoia, no fear. We need to discuss all this. The bill presented by the DTK is an open proposal, proposals and criticism. It doesn't say what we're going to do, we're going to impose it on Turkey 100% dogmatically. It doesn't say that. These are the demands of the political Kurdish movement during the new constitution. You can see it's missing, you can see it's too much. You may have suggestions, you may have reviews. But it's not possible for us to develop any solution by completely rejecting it, by completely subjecting it to a lynching campaign, by transferring the issue we're trying to do to the political field, by taking a stand against the fact that the weapons are out of commission, my friends. Look, in my last speech, I mentioned world examples, I mentioned our history, there are numerous examples of these self-governments in both the Ottomans and Seljuklu. In many of the current President's speeches, all of these management models, including the state system... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He said it had to be discussed, he suggested it himself. So there's no need for artificial agendas over such fears. Come, in this House, I say we all discuss the real problems of this country together and look for a cure for these sufferings, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0098par0141	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0099par0142	Mr. President, we've been criticized by our friends on the fundamental law, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a very brief answer to that.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0100par0143	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0098par0144	Mr. Turan, a short promise from your position.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0101par0145	The Doctrine's gonna give up? If there's bullying, he'll answer.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0102par0146	Mr. Free, if I may say so.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0101par0147	No, I mean, no teasing, nothing.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0103par0148	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0102par0151	Mr. President, my dear friends, three groups of our vice presidents have been the embodiment of the fundamental law to discuss this matter. I, first of all, would like to say on behalf of our group that we are not on the side of principle that the fundamental law is so right about these issues.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0101par0152	How many times did you use it last semester?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0102par0153	However, due to the large contribution of the opposition last week, we had to discuss this issue as a fundamental law, especially because of the fact that it was a matter of the age of the students, of the students, of the issues that should be done before New Year's Eve, of the reasons that our demand for law enforcement was denied, and of more financial and social work, especially because of the fact that our troops had to discuss the matter as a fundamental law. Other than that, I'd just like to say to the matter expressed by Mr. Baluken, the Deputy Director of the Group, that the AK PARTY demands for strengthening local governments are current, and we have no worries about that. However, I'd like to point out that we're completely out of the question. I would like to express that we have so far opposed the violence of the country's division, the dissolution of unity, that we are the queens of the brotherhood in every part of this country. The strengthening of local governments is another matter, but the matter expressed by the General President is a different matter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0104par0158	Thank you, Mr. Turan. I'm going to put the Justice and Development Group proposal to a vote.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0105par0162	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0104par0163	There's a request for a roll call before the vote, and now I'm going to grant it. I'll check with Mr. Yılm, Mr. Akkaya, Mr. Bridgelu, Mr. Karabık, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Özdish, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Sındır, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Sarıbağ, Mr. Tarhan, Mr. Gökdağ, Mr. Göker, Mr. Göker, Mr. Arıkk, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Seçek. I'd like to request that the members I've read their names do not enter the electronic device for roll call. I'd like to ask our high-value MPs to remain in the General Assembly until the polls are finalized. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, there are enough meetings. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Konya MP Halil Etamamaz and 13 MPs who have been ranked in the 1st place, and with the Constitutional Law and the Commission's Commission on Plans and Budget Report on the amendments to the Law and Law. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 12 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been completed and passed on to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first word is from Istanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu (Ismail) who has asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0106par0187	Mr. President, I've been promised by the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the entire Billionist Movement Party Proposal for the amendments to the 12th High School Law and Some Laws and Laws. I salute you all. In the 79th year of the death of Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the author of our anthem, the fatherland poet, I remember him with mercy and gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I take into consideration my assessment of the proposal, I would like to briefly draw your attention to the picture of Turkey, where our nation is facing each other. Turkey, unfortunately, is in a situation where separatist terrorism rises in the vortex of expansion and resolution, where street conflicts upset citizens, public order is not maintained, state authority is weakened, martyr funerals come every day, and safety is threatened. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who lost their lives in the fight against terrorism, and my condolences to our nation. I want to point out that we are on the side of our security forces fighting terrorism by putting their lives on the line for the sake of the nation. Noting that the National Movement Party's warnings that it is actually a process of destruction, the government says today that the Turkish nation and its state are facing the problem of fuckingbeka. Oslo, Habur, Dolmabahçe road maps that have been going on for thirteen years, the situation where the policies of separatist terrorism and surrender bring Turkey only tears. The destruction process did not allow the PKK to lay down arms and surrender, nor did it ease the tears of the mothers, nor did it strengthen the will to live together. In the process of negotiating against terrorism, the terrorist organization has built a mass of weapons, ammunition and militants. I have to ask, where was the government when the guns that said they pulled a truckload of guns out of the ditch went in there? Therefore, the conclusion must be reached without delay, without being exposed to separatist terrorism that threatens the back of the Republic of Turkey's state and the Turkish nation. Our party, which recognizes terrorism as the greatest threat to the safety of our people's lives and property, our national unity, our democracy, and our economic development, considers the fight against terrorism a national policy that should not be neglected under any circumstances. No matter where he comes from, no matter what country or power he has acted with and support, the terror centers must be eliminated, the process that has given the terrorist organization the courage to negotiate or threaten the state must be terminated. With Turkey's enormous support of a strong nation behind its problems, the AKP, who has been unable to solve the responsibility for 13 years, is sometimes seeking to impose responsibility on opposition, on republic values, and sometimes on past governments, and this time on the system. What good did the Justice and Development Party want to do in the democratic parliamentary system? We consider the parliamentary system, which is based on the unitary national structure of the Republic of Turkey, necessary to sustain the democratic political system, and consider it the most appropriate form of governance for the Turkish nation. We see that the problems of the system's functioning can be solved again within the parliamentary system. Therefore, we do not approve of semi-presidential and similar systems, particularly the presidency, which will lead the state of the Republic of Turkey to different political and administrative structures, depriving the state of Turkey from its foundation and leading the nation to different political and administrative structures, which can lead to a dangerous authoritarianisation of fundamental rights and freedoms by personalisation of power. We also reject the political approach that indexes the constitutional need to a system change that will lead the state and the nation to disintegration rather than social requirements. As the National Movement Party, let the solution process end, which leads to dissolution, let the first four articles of the Constitution (the Constitution), which governs the foundations of our state, be questioned by those who are lawless. No doubt those who turn away will understand the importance of these principles when we come to them. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces geopolitical risks as well as internal risks. The great turmoil in Middle Eastern geography has had a negative impact on Turkey because of its natural proximity to both historical and cultural relations and the region. Turkey is one of the key countries in the world, in its geopolitical and geostrategic position affecting Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia. In fact, the strategy developed by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with his vision of a great statesman, has allowed Turkey to take the lead in world politics as a regional force from the early years of the republic. However, Turkey's ability to stimulate its potential to capture its future vision will be proportional to the extent it assesses and uses the opportunities and resources it offers. Unfortunately, Turkey has become a country that has not been able to achieve a leader in the region with realistic and solid foundations, not being an actor who directs and solves problems, but deeply experiencing problems in the region. On the other hand, lack of production, unemployment, poverty, injustice, corruption, and corruption in the distribution of income are the main socioeconomic problems in Turkey's normalisation. Non-profit investments based on the flow of hot money and policies and practices based on the Rant economy are not sustainable, but are an important risk factor for the future of Turkey's economy. It is possible for a country to become a developed country with economic and social development. In this sense, some international comparisons also reveal our position in the world. According to Transparency International, Turkey fell to the 64th place among the 175 countries in 2014, according to the Corruption Index of the Transparency, which was published by the United Nations Development Programme, and was ranked as ranked as ranked ranked ranked ranked ranked in the 72nd place among the countries of Afghanistan, Niger, Ukraine, Thailand and Bangladesh; the 2014 Human Development Index of Turkey, Russia, Lebanon, Bulgaria; the 2014 Global Social Gender Equality Report, which was drafted by the World Economic Forum, according to 180 countries, is equal to the women's equality of Molza, followed by the 2014 Human Development Index of Human Development, and the United Nations. Among the 40 countries, Turkish students ranked as 36 ▪ on the measurement of the International Student Evaluation Programme (PISA) in OECD countries. In the 21st century, poverty is still at the top of the most important problems facing mankind today. Current indicators show that unemployment and poverty remain a major problem for Turkey. According to the 2014 poverty indicators, 15 per cent of the population is at risk of poverty. The distribution of income among the OECD countries in Turkey is ranked third to third in both 20 per cent and Gini coefficients in terms of justice. This painting indicates that Turkey has much work to do to reach the level of developed, modern countries. It is possible that it can be achieved not by the liquidation of the unitary national state, but by the display of the will to walk together to the future on the basis of a compromise based on the basic qualities of our republic and our national and spiritual values. However, it is not possible to achieve that with the separative and polarizing politics that have been going on for thirteen years. The law proposal we are discussing includes increasing allowances for military and military cadets who raise officers and petty officers, raising monthly and wages for Turkish military troops sent to Cyprus, and reflecting on the pensions of petty officers and pensions. A one-year extension of the temporary sentence for the implementation of the ages of the newly established state universities of professors as 72 is allowed to continue for six months, with some exceptions facing public subcontractorship. Again, the amendment of the fee system of contractors and privates, the violation of 12,500 teaching staffs to the Ministry of National Education. The proposal for the law is to be submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by making it a bag of laws again without integrity. It is the risk of bringing issues into different areas to the General Assembly without discussing them in the relevant fellowship commissions. Because of the immediate problems involved in the application, correcting laws are forced to be passed. Therefore, considering the dignity of Parliament and the importance of law enforcement, the issue must be resolved radically and given up this bag business. In the proposal of the law, there are provisions that must be reached by the end of the year, which are legally expired, and the interim provisions imposed on the law are extended. Continuous extension of temporary provisions allows them to be actually convicted, which is not consistent with law enforcement and the spirit of the relevant law. One of them is the arrangement that allows professors to work at certain newly established universities until they are 72 years old. On the one hand, Turkey faces a human-power policy, which has been observed at 18-20 per cent of youth unemployment, and has grown on one side, where qualified experts cannot benefit enough from their knowledge and experience. Advanced countries apply aging-friendly employment policies that offer information and experience of older people to society, thus providing opportunities and opportunities to present information, life experiences, and skills of the elderly to society and to pass on to young people. Turkey, too, has to develop the mechanisms that these opportunities can be created without ignoring it. In our country today there are 193 universities of applied sciences -- 109 of the state, 76 of the foundation, 8 of the foundation; four universities of law enforcement and armed forces include 197. Given the increasing population and the number of higher education students, the number of universities must be increased, but it is not enough. At the same time, students who are trained in these schools will be thrown into their professional lives without gaining the necessary knowledge and skill, unless they are trained in quality and quantity. In all areas, it is possible to gain the power to compete with the world, but only by developing manpower that is equipped with modern developments. The richness of numerical colleges that do not provide this will result in the growth of a doctor who, as the public calls him, does not know how to give injections. Therefore, the government needed to resolve the problems of higher education with a reformist understanding, to increase the physical and technological capacities of universities, to train sufficient quantity and quality professors, and to make universities more democratic. It should have been kept from becoming the home of the separatist terrorist group of universities, to keep education and teaching. However, as in many universities today, separatist militants at Hacettepe University Beytepe Campus in the heart of Ankara are preventing education, nationalist, patriotic students are dealing with the attacks of separatist militants and are unable to attend classes. This brings the government's attention, and we expect the security measures to be taken before there are irreparable consequences. Instead of doing so, the Justice and Development Party also sought to politicize and conquer universities at the cost of destroying traditions and destroying institutional identities. The universities, however, should be made into educational institutions that grow the manpower our country needs, produce science and technology by doing research, and lead social development. In addition to the traditional functions of universities, education, research and development, informing the community, they could be guaranteed to be in an industrialised and commercializing structure of information. A mechanism for training teachers could be developed, and a growing academic could serve in newly established universities. The higher education system could be restored to a more democratic and productive structure, and the presidential elections could be tied to democratic foundations. The student, institution, and academic staff could have had the necessary cooperation and harmony. The university exam could be lifted, and a higher education system could be established based on everyone's interest. Teachers could be improved in their financial and social rights, focused on scientific research rather than on life's anxiety. However, as none of this has been done today, exams are questionable, appointments are antidemocratic, education is poor, dorms and campuses are unsafe, and the majority of graduates are unemployed. Members of the law, the arrangements for increased allowances for privates and military students in the proposal of the law and for the establishment of the NCOs are one of the things that we as the National Movement Party have committed to in our election declaration. In addition to finding them positive, we expect the government to consider our proposals to pay a monthly payment to the needy families of privates, including 50,000 lira entrepreneurial support for every young person who comes in and asks for it. Subsequently, the 8th article of the proposal is replaced by the 7th article of the Contracted Private and Private Law, and the current gross minimum wage months are based on a new indicator, rather than on a minimum wage. Although it is said that a system based on indicators, such as other public officials, is the main concern of preventing the increase in terms of contracting privates and privates' wages due to the work to increase minimum wage. With the arrangement, there has been no additional increase. However, privates and privates serve under difficult circumstances because of their working conditions, their responsibilities and risks, and under better circumstances, they deserve to serve as better financial and social rights. Therefore, with an additional arrangement, we feel it is necessary to improve the financial rights of the privates. In this direction, we invite the government to support our law proposal, which has increased contract fees with additional indicators and compensation rates for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and therefore to support the privates and the privates. Congressmans, an arrangement brought in is about subcontractorship. It is still possible by public administrations to tender jobs related to subservient services based on the lack of adequate quality or number of staff employed under law, regulations and regulations. According to the law, the subject of the tender and contract cannot and cannot be employed outside of work. However, with a temporary arrangement, the implementation of this verdict was postponed until the end of 2015. This time, the implementation of the same sentence is postponed again. Turkey is often involved in business accidents, particularly mining accidents, and after each accident, subcontractor implementation is on the agenda. In essence, the order to employ workers in such a way as the lack of organization, unsecured work, non-regularity and unregisteredness, human dignity, decent job description, destabilising the balance of working life, as well as slavery should be put to an end. In our election statement, we have envisioned resolving the growing problems of sub-employees, improving working conditions and fees, ensuring annual paid leave, overtime fees, severance pay, and putting public contractors on staff. What we're talking about today is an attempt to avoid the problems of the system, without an adjustment to the subcontractor system. We believe that multi-referencing mechanisms in working life should be strengthened and effective participation of the parties should be ensured for the solution to these and other huge problems in working life and for the establishment of the peace of work.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0107par0212	Finish your words, sir. End it this way, please, for not giving it to anyone. I say let's have a fair run. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0106par0214	I'm trying to say hello.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0107par0215	Okay. Let's open it for hailing.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0106par0216	Members of parliament, the 10th article of the proposal provides the National Ministry of Education with a tender of 12,500 new teachers. The new teacher's staff is positive, but it's very inadequate in numbers. In order to resolve the problem of teachers waiting to be introduced, first, no school needs to be left in need of teachers, and all teachers who have not been appointed have to be appointed gradually. We, the National Movement Party, state that it is necessary to increase this number. On this occasion, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0107par0219	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. The second word for the groups is Garo Paylan, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0108par0224	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I was prepared for this bag of legislation, but I think it's become the basic law, and I don't know what it is yet, I'm a new congressman.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0109par0226	Bag, bag.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0108par0227	I don't know if it's still a bag, Mr. Tanal. It's like this: it's basic law or bag law... I'm a new MP. But I'm really depressed. I feel sorry for this time I've been in Congress. I hope so, because Congress is now notary of bureaucratic oligarchy. He's just been talking to a preacher. In the House, I looked at everyone's faces, not 10 people, believe me, five people were listening. I mean, there's no respect for a fellow congressman.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0110par0229	Where are your people? There aren't even 10 people here.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0108par0230	Because oligarchy brings it, Parliament raises and lowers its hand like a notary. We've got to change this situation by hand. I know this law comes with a Christmas obligation, and it has to pass, but it doesn't have the quality of living. We need to change this quality of legislation. It's not supposed to be with a pluralistic look at the law, it's supposed to be with a pluralistic look. Most of the time, we brought it in, we imposed it... ▪ Even the most reasonable suggestion is rejected. I'm surprised at the commissions; now, we're bringing so many reasonable suggestions that you say it's totally acceptable; no. He's being rejected just because he's bringing opposition. Because why? That's what the bureaucracy sent. As a result, it should be the government's proposals, not only the opposition, but the authority to correct the laws of the law. But unfortunately, the power has no such suggestion. Let's hope this quality of living improves in that sense. And as I start my words like this -- I'm going to move on to materials, but -- first I want to say things about current, general politics. Because all of these materials, I know, are going to pass through here somehow, but there's a fire going on somewhere in the country. People lack their basic rights. This fire is going on right now, but we have to look at it four years ago. Four years ago today, yesterday, at Roboski, 34 of our citizens were slaughtered. Roboski's a part of the country, but he's a part of this country. Normally, when a pain falls on one side of our body like our body, then life stops, and we try to fix that pain in our body. But the sound from the east, the pain, it never reaches the west. Now, those who didn't look at this sound from the east, this pain, for example, that day... this massacre happened on December 28, 2011. Three days later, Christmas was celebrated with fireworks all over Turkey. Hope Kıvanç has a documentary, and I advise you to watch it. When there's pain in Roboski, and there's a fire in the house, and there's fireworks in the west... what kind of country are we, what kind of community are we? One part of us gets hurt, and the other part of the body's fun. Unacceptable, but it can happen. It's a massacre, so it's a mistake. We don't think so, we say it happened with a chain of command, but it's also a mistake. If it were a mistake, it wouldn't be covered in four years, it's been covered up for four years, and it's still an open wound. Open wounds, you know, get gangrene, keep the top off, wrap the body, poison the body. Right now, our entire body is being poisoned by this massacre, this covered-up massacre. For that day, we said the killer state, the perpetrator state, only today, we say the killer is the state, because we know very well that every crime covered up is a criminal state. The state hides the perpetrators of this crime within itself, conceals it, doesn't answer, removes them from duty and repeats every crime covered up, as it is today. Today, the crime we covered up in Roboski continues. Only we could have started a confrontation with Roboski, if Roboski had been asked to account for it, could there have been empathy with the Kurdish people, and perhaps we wouldn't be in the situation today. However, the Armenian people's feelings about Hrant (Hrant Dink as a symbol) live in connection with Roboski, the Kurdish people, and as long as we cover it up, one of these emotional disconnects will continue to be Roboski. Dear friends, I've been on the streets of Mardin province for days, traveling in Mardin districts. Our people lack their most basic rights. One of their most basic rights -- of course -- they can't even bury their funerals. In that sense, the issue was transferred to the security forces. As Regents, we're in the area, and since none of you are here, you don't know, we're just dealing with security forces. There's a sergeant there, a corporal, a lieutenant, a major, and he says, "You can't go in here, you can't go in there, you can't go in there, you can't go in there." Look, how are we going to settle this? The People of Cizre-Nusaybin-Dargate are delivering their demands, giving us their demands everywhere they see them. I wish you could hear it. Those of us who had seen over and over again that it couldn't be solved by security policies -- your age is available, there are people who remember the 90s -- went back into the same street and transferred it back to the Joint Chiefs. But the Joint Chiefs didn't want to get involved, they didn't want to go into the counties, they didn't want to face their own people. However, at your insistence, the security forces of the AKP, the government and the palace are now bombing their own people. When we were there, there was a sound of cannons, on the edge of the county. Yeah, can you imagine, two years ago, last year, still, those who accused Assad of bombing his own people today are bombing their own people. It's not just simple bombings, but, look, they're bombing with cannons, tanks. Children, women are dying. But we're still...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0111par0240	You're lying! Terrorists...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0108par0241	No, sir, I'm not lying. You can go see them, they've got records.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0112par0242	You're lying!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0108par0243	Let's go together, I'll show you. Let's go together.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0112par0244	You know damn well the terrorists bombed it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0113par0245	Sir, you do the talking.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0114par0246	Don't answer that! It's a disgrace!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0115par0247	People want their demands heard. Turkey's society is a majorityist, a society with many identities, and every part of society wants its demands to be heard. I'm a representative of the reduced. I'll try to deliver my demands here later on in the day. The Kurdish people have demands, the Alevi community has demands, and they want them to be heard here. Imagine that in these societies, in pluralistic societies, in multi-identified societies, people want their demands to be heard in parliament. The people of Şırnak, Silopi, Mardin also want their demands to be heard here, they've been demanding it for years, and there's only one Parliament and one understanding that hasn't heard it in a hundred years, and there's a ceberut state tradition. What do they want? It's a pluralistic look. What do they want? Accepting their right to democratic autonomy. But unfortunately, there's a state that can only look at them with security policies, which responds to tanks and balls. However, until two years ago, we were very close to it, and we were very close to them in this peace process that began two years ago, but today, those who overturn the table are only responding to the idea with the tank, with the ball, instead of the idea. From that point on, I'd like to see these security policies immediately waived and...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0116par0248	What idea is there to answer with a tank and a ball?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0115par0249	Look, what we call democracy... you always say democracy, democracy...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0116par0250	The canals or the Alashnikovs?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0115par0251	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0117par0252	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please do not interfere with the witness on the stand. Mr. Paylan, please address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0118par0255	Admit they're gone.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0119par0256	What you call democracy is a system where even the most contrary ideas can be spoken. What you call democracy is not a system that many raise their hands and download. You say people, people. You say, "He's given us 49.5% of the vote." You say, "He's going to be whatever we say." No matter what you say, no matter what you say, whatever the palace sends, whatever the bureaucracy sends, it happens. (APPLAUSE) From that point of view, now...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0120par0257	The palace is a legitimate place, the Kandil is an illegitimate place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0121par0258	The palace can't run this place. The executives are separate from the law, you have to understand that. The palace can't run this place! He can run you, but he can't run this place.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0122par0259	Congressmans, let's hear the speaker on the stand. Mr. Paylan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0261	What we call democracy is a pluralistic structure, and what we call pluralist is the fact that social demands are heard. We need to hear these social demands. Look, a hundred years ago, the Armenian people were demanding democratic autonomy, just like today. They demanded that the demands be taken on the basis of the demands in each local area, but these demands were answered by that day's ceberut state tradition, by the first junta, by a genocide.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0124par0262	What genocide?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0263	When we look at it today, the Kurdish people have been demanding democratization in terms of their own identity and understanding of governance for a hundred years, but I'm telling you today -- again, unfortunately -- back to the tank and back to the ball in 2015. Now, we have a proposal in universal standards, and we rephrase it: democratic autonomy. We didn't discover it. Look, a lot of countries have been through these fascist times. Spain, England, Greece, many countries have been through these fascist times. Some countries went into civil war, Yugoslavia fell apart. At the end of the day, it was democratic autonomy. We're fighting for democratic autonomy so that we can achieve it without internal interference, and we want these demands to be heard in that sense. And this request, our demand for universal standards, is a suggestion. We've explained the clauses of this proposal. It's in our program, it's in the People's Democratic Party program. What was the answer to that? And as those who advocate the will to live together in this country, we ask that these suggestions be answered with an opinion. But there are no ideas to give, there are two sentences: the new Turkey, the ▪ The presidential model. What is your opinion? What's your story? Look, what you're calling the president's model, what we've learned so far, is that we understand from your practical practice, an application that leads to dictatorship. It's an app that only one man can decide. It's not a parliamentary practice, it's not a majority practice, it's a dictatorial practice. How is this going to be a balance control mechanism? Where will freedom of the press be found? There's no answer at all. But I'd like to give another opinion on that. Please, listen, I know you're gonna be mad at this: they don't know history. Now they call the Republic a war. If you look at developed countries around the world, there's no such thing as state fright. On the contrary, state structures bring much faster development in those powerful countries. It's a sign of strength. When we look at our history, the Ottoman province of Lazistan, Kurdistan. Strong Turkey should never be afraid of the state system. You can also preserve the unitary structure in the state system. We're electing mayors, but why shouldn't the governors choose the people? They'll make you angry, won't they?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0125par0267	Did Kandil give you the paper?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0268	That'll make you angry, won't it? Who said that?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0126par0269	She just told me, last year.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0270	You know who said that?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0127par0271	Who gave it to you in Kandil? Did he hand you that paper?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0272	You're saying he's got the candle, right?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0128par0273	Recep Tayyip Erdogan told me last year.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0274	Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that on March 30, 2013. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party' Party) (ÇT/TK) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party' Party) (ÇT/TK) Recep Tayyip Erdogan set it on fire.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0129par0275	Bravo! She speaks beautifully. Congratulations!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0128par0276	It hasn't been a year. It's been a year.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0277	Look, it hasn't been two years, the ink hasn't dried yet. Indeed, on that day, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in a rare way, said the right thing. He said something really right, something really democratic, because a lot of countries went through this mess, and that's where he ended up. We want to get there without these complications, without killings. Now, dear friends, I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0130par0280	Then why don't you condemn terror? Why don't you say terrorist? What is the matter with you that you do not blame? Come on, condemn me, say terrorist!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0131par0281	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Günnar... Mr. Günnar, please...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0282	Dear friends, this bill is a bag of laws, and when I look at the first four clauses, there are private, private salaries, chartered staff arrangements. We're an anti-militarian party. Of course, we think the country should be defended, but this mission must be done at the borders. There may be a certain amount of soldiers, but we're an anti-militarian party, an anti-war party. We're fighting for peace inside and out, fighting for it. In that sense, we are against forced military service.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0132par0283	Are you against going up the mountain?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0284	Right now, there are 400,000 privates under the gun, privates. In this sense, we demand that the right to conscientious rejection be brought forth immediately and that the House reveal this will. And, Private, of course, the increase in private salaries... I know the allowances are important right now, and I've been in the army, and I know how important the Private Private's salary is, but in this frame, we must immediately recognize the right to conscientious denial.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0133par0285	Can you say it's for the kids who go up the mountain?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0286	Regarding soldiers who serve only in Cyprus: We, in Cyprus -- look, it's being spoken again these days -- think that negotiations must be started and finished, and that our troops there must be withdrawn. The people of Cyprus must decide the future of Cyprus, without the custody of Turkey. Turkey is a garantator country, yes, it must work for the safety and future of the people there.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0134par0287	But let Russia's military stand in Syria! Tell me about him.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0288	In that framework, we demand immediate withdrawal of the military presence in Cyprus. There are proposals about military schools, about the increase in student salaries there. Look, you had criticisms about military schools, remember: You had criticism about education there, remember? Remember, you were right. Look, right now, military schools still have a singular education. You're offering to raise the salaries of the children there, but you have no criticism of what the military schools are teaching. Because, look, when I get there, I see the faces of the soldiers, and they look at the people there as enemies.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0135par0290	It's just you looking at me like that. That's how you look at it, you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0291	They don't have a pluralistic look. The soldier must have a pluralistic view of the people. As the Turkish community is multilingual and multiethnic, it should be just as it was in the past. In that sense, we must surely intervene in the content of military schools, and perhaps fight for a pluralistic view of it and for its people to raise soldiers who care for equality. Turkey spends $22.6 billion in military spending worldwide, ranking 15. We don't have to spend so much money, we can spend it for good. We can spend this money on peaceful policies inside and out.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0135par0293	We spend good, we spend good.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0123par0294	Another item is about colleges. We're raising the ages of the university's educators from 67 to 72, until the end of this year; that's great. Look, when did this law come out? 2547. The LÖK Act, which is in 1981, has been issued by the bishops, the coupger Pashas. In 2015, we bring in a motion to extend a custody law by the coup d'états. This is the shame of the House, my friends, this is the shame of the House. And why should we decide here to increase the age of university professors from 67 to 72? Let the colleges be free, decide in their own Senate. Gazi Yasargil performs surgery today at 90. Why don't we just let it go, why are we continuing this custody? Let's hope we can eliminate these guardian laws next year along with the Constitutional debates, set the universities free. The other thing is, it's a matter of hiring State Waterworks. There's no ecologist look here, and it's not open to the criticism of NGOs. In this sense, we demand that NGOs be open to criticism and based on it. Since I'm running out of time... there are teachers who aren't assigned. There's a staff of 12,500 people involved in this. We think it's too low because we've got 120,000 deficits, including the Ministry of Education. According to the unions, there are 150,000 deficits. 300,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. In that sense, we recommend that these appointments be raised to 150,000. Finally, again, I want this year in the country to be the cause of peace. 2015, unfortunately, was bad for all of us. I wish 2016 to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0136par0299	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0137par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0136par0301	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0137par0302	In his speech, Mr. Paylan is bombing his own people by the force of the General Staff of the AKP. He has spoken an unfortunate, mind-blowing word, and other words. I'd like to make a statement on 69, without taunting in this frame.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0138par0303	He's not picking on you! Are you with the Joint Chiefs, Mr. Naci?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0136par0304	Please complete your words in two minutes, without any further taunts. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0309	Mr. President, dear friends, what kind of language is that of the TSK who bombed the people of the Court and the General Staff?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0140par0310	Roboski, Roboski.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0141par0311	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0312	What kind of talk is that? Man rubs his eyes a little bit and looks at the reality there.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0140par0313	It's right on Roboski's anniversary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0314	It's not the people that the army and the police are fighting there, it's the terrorists, see, the terrorists. Don't try to make terrorists look like people.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0142par0315	Bravo, Master!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0143par0316	So why are you tearing down people's houses?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0317	Showing in the form of the people is incompatible with democratic and legitimate politics. Especially compared to Esed....and Turkey..
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0144par0318	Three months old, the baby's dead.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0143par0319	There's no more county called Sur. You've flattened it!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0320	You have no idea what Esed is doing, you are speaking out of ignorance, or you are deliberately acting in a provocative manner. No! Who in this country has begun the process of resolving social peace?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0145par0322	Who's the one who broke it, the one who broke it?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0146par0323	Who's done it? Who put it in the fridge?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0324	Who in this country uses all the opportunities of politics to embrace people? AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0147par0326	Turns out it was all a game.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0327	Friends, democracy is not the violence of three or five people. I have declared autonomy here, admit it, I have weapons behind the barricades. Is that what democracy is? Congress is the answer to democracy, Parliament! You say the people, the people, the people are here.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0148par0329	Three months old, the baby's dead.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0149par0330	The people are in Cizre, and they are in Silopi.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0331	The public is not in the speaker's head, but the people's reality is here.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0150par0332	Well, here we are.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0333	There will be a debate, a discussion here. I've drawn a circle, I've declared a regime, I've declared a government, no one can come in here. And we'll accept that? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0150par0334	Yours has announced its presidency!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0139par0335	There's no such thing! [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] The will of the people here, the will of this country. You're part of it. Please take your place, according to him, please tell me what's going on... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...share in a realistic way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0151par0342	We're in position, don't stare, Mr. Naci!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0152par0343	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0153par0344	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0154par0345	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0152par0346	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0153par0347	Mr. Orator, during his speech...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0155par0348	Your place is Jahangir, Jahangir! Go to Jahangir, Mr. Ertugrul!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0156par0349	Our place is in Silvio and Cizre, that's all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0157par0350	Congressmans, please... Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0158par0352	Go to Algeria Street!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0159par0353	During his speech, Mr. Orator teased our group by making many accusations, from ignorance to violation of democratic politics.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0160par0354	Yes, he spoke very hard, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0159par0356	We want to talk about bullying on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0161par0357	Mr. Engin, why do you say it's heavy? What's so heavy about that?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0160par0358	He was hard on them, he wouldn't talk to me.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0162par0359	Hyungnim, look, the weight of the conversation was specific, its specific weight.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0163par0360	Here you go, Mr. Paylan. Please, Congressmans, let's hear from the speaker on the stand. I promise not to pick on you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0364	Sir, I'm afraid your ignorance doesn't end in reading.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0165par0365	Bravo! That's a great thing to say!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0366	Look, he's talking about the will of the people. We say that everywhere in Turkey there are different authenticitys of the people, everywhere. Turkey is a big country.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0166par0367	It's not for fun, it's not for pleasure.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0368	Of course it's not for fun.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0166par0369	By law, the law.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0370	In that sense, Turkey must come up with a solution, according to any originality. And we call that democratic autonomy. What's the imposition? An idea. Come in, come in with an opinion.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0167par0371	It's not an idea, it's a gun, Garo! Garo, don't twist it!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0372	Look, Recep Tayyip Erdogan said there's a real situation in Turkey. He said, "I've brought the presidency."
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0167par0373	Garo, no twists, no ideas. Look, there's talk of ideas here. Who put a gun to the presidency?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0374	Look, just because we have an idea today, you're making promises about changing the Constitution and about pushing it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0167par0375	Garo, who put a gun to the presidency, is being interviewed.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0376	We offer democratic autonomy to Turkey. Answer this with an opinion.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0167par0377	You don't offer it, you push it from behind a ditch.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0164par0378	No, there's no pressure.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0168par0379	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Yasar, please... Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0169par0382	From that point on, we need to respond to the originality of all the regions of Turkey. Look, even Kadir Topbaş complains -- I chatted after the last election -- I don't sign any of those buildings. Kadir Topbaş is complaining, and the mayor of İzmir is complaining. In that sense, we offer democratic autonomy to all Turkey. We want that to happen before the shooting takes place. As politicians, we need to present this, and we need to respond to the Kurds there, to the Kurds in Silvio, and to Kadir Topbaş in Istanbul. We need to establish a more democratic, non-centralistic, decentralized system. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0168par0385	Thank you, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0170par0386	Be honest, honest, that's not what you're saying. You're fooling us here. That's not what you're saying, we don't know, don't make fun of our intelligence.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0168par0390	The third word for the groups is Halil Etamamez, MP for the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Meatball. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0171par0394	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and conversation. I, the man of the heart, our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy, and for the sake of religion, for the sake of our country, for all our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of holyness, with mercy and gratitude. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the Law of Higher Education and the Proposal to Change Decisions under some Law and Law. This bill, adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission, has been prepared by the National Ministry of Education to extend the length of some of the practices that will be completed in the legislation on 31/12/2015, to be calculated on the basis of the employee's salary, as well as on other public officials. As the EC PARTY, we bring our commitments, one by one, in our election statement and in our action plan. After last week's arrangement in pensions, we moved our proposal from teachers' appointments to the allowances of our soldiers, from the retirement age of our academics to the rights of our petty officers to the General Assembly this week. The number of indicators on the allowances of privates and privates is increased by 100 per cent, with the first and second articles of the law proposal. We raise the allowance of the soldiers from 38 TL to 80 TL, from 43 TL to 92 TL, and from 49 TL to 103 TL. In the primary cities of development, they receive twice as much allowance as that, so that their allowance will be increased to 160 euros, and the corporal's allowance to 180 euros, and the sergeant's allowance to 206 euros. The current allowances of privates and privates in Cyprus will also be increased by 100 per cent. So the privates get $160, the corporals get $180, the sergeants get $206. As promised, we also fulfill our commitment to military students' allowances. Article 3 of the Law and the allowances of all military students are increased by 100 per cent. After the arrangement, between $287 and $460 for military students who are studying at military schools, universities and universities and universities, and 287 euro for auxiliary officers' students, between $14 euro and 250 for military high school students according to the classrooms they are in, will begin to pay an allowance for the sum of between $94 and 201 euros per class. Dear lawmakers, the temporary clause added to the 926th Amendment with the 4th article of our law proposal will have been resolved by the power of the AK PARTI, which has been replaced by the initial degrees and levels of the petty officers who began their duties in early 2003 and have been waiting to be resolved for years. Petty officers who have never been able to rise to the first degree and thus have risen to the second degree will be allowed to ascend to the first degree and to take advantage of the 3600 additional indicators. Our high school graduates will advance one degree, two years of school graduates two levels, three years of school graduates one level, four years of school graduates two levels. An average increase in pensions will be 400 euros, given a degree for petty officers who are retired from the 2nd degree and will benefit from 36,209 retired petty officers or widows and orphans. A total of 105,142 people would benefit from the regulation of this proposal. Dear lawmakers, we are continuing reforms that concern education, we are taking care of the future of the nation. We know that the real wealth of a country, the currency or precious minerals in the vaults of central banks, of course, is not, but the real wealth of a country, the quality of the five capitals that that country owns. AS AK PARTY governments, we really, with this movement, have focused on qualitative and quantitative investments that can compete with the modern world in our educational system. I'd like to say once again from the bench of our great Parliament that we've given priority to education investments that will improve the quality of our people's lives by increasing the source from the central budget to education every year. In this framework, 79 universities started in 80 years, while in the period of the EC PARTY, 110 new universities opened in 13 years, almost a silent revolution in education. In 2002-2003, the number of students in higher education increased to 2.6 million in 2013-2014. In 2015, a total of 79,555 academics were raised to 151,169 in 2015. In higher education, the schooling rate reached 50 per cent from 19 per cent to 50 per cent. The total funding transferred to universities in 2002 increased to $2.5 billion in 2015 to $18.3 billion. What we have done in recent years by our government is that as of December 2015, professors, professors and assistant professors have increased by 789.30 euros per month; faculty, professors, professors, specialists, researchers, translators and educational planners' monthlys are up 907.68 euros. Starting in 2016, the application for academic incentive grant -- which will be applied on February 15th -- will be introduced. According to this, a professor who scored 100 full points in 2015 was granted 789.30 TL, $710.37, assistant professor 631.44 TL; lecturer, student, researcher, and researcher's fee of $552.51 a month. As it is known, the 30th article of Higher Education Law 2547 is generally set at the age limit of the faculty at 67. The age limit set 72 for 41 universities by the end of this year is extended for another year to ensure a new arrangement. This interim material plays an important role in meeting the needs of the faculty of our newly established universities. As of 15/12/2015, 133 professors serve as part of this article. Of these professors, of the professors, of the twelve professors and of the twenty-three assistant professors. As it turns out, the majority of these professors are professors. In particular, the need for professors of universities in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions is met under this clause. Dear lawmakers, since 2002, we have been working to build a more civil, democratic and pluralist Turkey government. In doing so, we have always adopted an approach to the center of politics, which is to get people to vote, not to vote, not to meet everyone's expectations and demands. Honourable lawmakers, there have been many studies in the EC PARTI governments to improve the rights of our teachers' employment and essence, the most important element in the construction and care of our civilization. In 80 years, 383,000 teachers were appointed in Turkey, while the EC PARTI government appointed 510,589 new teachers between 2003 and 15 years alone. With the appointment of 37,000 teachers held in August, our total number of teachers was 893,642, and 57 percent of our teachers who were staffed at the Ministry of National Education were appointed by the EC PARTI governments. Again, this is a silent revolution. This law proposal, which includes the introduction of 12,500 teaching staffs to be used for the appointment of teachers by the National Ministry of Education -- including the participation of new education in the training army -- is an indication that our reforms will continue. Our party's commitment to the appointment of 30,000 teachers during February appointments in its election declaration will be fulfilled with the legalisation of this proposal. The appointment of about 22,500 teachers will be held in February, along with the allocation of staff, which is referred to as 12,500, as well as the appointment of 22,500 staff members of the Ministry of National Education. We value our teachers, our academics, our young ones, our fellow students, our future generations, and we continue to be with them through reforms that we have done so that they can have a qualified education life. We've supported all high school students with loans and scholarships, and we're still doing it. In 2002, 451,550 people were given loans, but in 2015, we gave 1 million,2 thousand student student student student loans, and a total of 1,350,000 students, including 353,722 students, were given scholarships or loans. In 2016, we plan to raise this issue to 1.5 million. In 2002, the amount of loans, 45 euros per month, increased by 633 per cent in 2015 to $330 per month, and as we explained in our 64th government's action plan, we raise student grants to 400 euros as of January. In 81 cities, 162 districts, and 2 in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, we provide shelter for our student brothers and sisters in 592 countries. Our boys and girls continue to reside in dorms with a total capacity of 450 thousand. Again, we continue to practice the interests of fellow students. Starting from 08/10/2011, social welfare and solidarity foundations can accept a conditional donation to college students whose financial status is insufficient. In different cities across the country, there are 184 social aid and solidarity foundations under conditional grants. Around 5,000 university students are granted scholarships annually across Turkey and are used as a conditional grant of around $10m annually. We made an offer to extend the length of this law clause to our students who are continuing to attend college, hoping that the relevant law clause would end on 31/12/2015, and that it would continue to be a victim and that social aid and solidarity foundations would be useful for their higher education students to receive donations so that they could be granted scholarships. While someone is trying to tear down hospitals, burn down schools, we continue to open schools for fellow students who are the guarantee of our future, build dorms, invest in children who will build new Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition to the housing and nutritional needs of our young people in the dorms, we have mobilized all kinds of opportunities and opportunities for their academic, social, cultural, and spiritual development. Tens of thousands of young people benefit from these activities. In 2002, it was also $240 per month, with an increase of 22 times per month, and will be raised to $270 as of January 2016. We don't make words, we produce jobs, dear friends. We think of youth because we think of our future.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0172par0416	You cheated on our commitments before June 7th, and you're giving them away!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0171par0417	There's a change in the world, where the foundations of the next hundred years, not just our present, our near future, are being reshaped. As Turkey, we have to be the subject of this process, take steps for our future in our own geography, think about future generations. We are obliged to guide the course of events in the light of vision and mission that our civilization has imposed on us. From this platform, I address my younger brothers and sisters: In the last period of the struggle for existence and destruction, all of our values, which have held together the spirit of this geography, all of our values that have brought meaning to our country, have been the essence of our struggle. As a nation, we fight together to protect our unity, our unity. Yes, this bill, adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission, includes the extension of the application of water products in Article 6111 on the temporary Article 12 of the Law. Pre-law 6111, the rental of water and water surface areas used in water products was made by the state's private administrations. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has been authorized to hire Article 12 of Law 6111 on 25/2/2011 to prevent unfair competition and to set a standard for rentals and to provide a solution to this issue. Under this arrangement, unfair practices between regions and cities have been eliminated, reduced to high rent costs blocking investments, and rental transactions will be standardized with a program based on (web). With the end of the power vested in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism regarding leases under Article 6111, the current law is intended to extend its implementation date and ensure sustainability in water products production. In the process of implementing contractual agreements based on hiring and hiring staff, the executive sanctions shall be extended until June 30, 2016. As a result, valuable lawmakers, the EC PARTY is a party that has signed many silent revolutions that served this nation in the last thirteen years of Turkey that have ruled the nation's will. We are a team that believes in God, then in our people. Other than that, we have not yielded to any will or authority, nor will we ever bow to it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0173par0422	I hope you don't forget 17-25.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0171par0423	May God bless this great nation of ours and protect our nation. I salute you all again with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0174par0426	Thank you, Mr. Meatball. The last word for the groups is Selin Sayek Böke, İzmir MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0175par0430	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0174par0431	You've come a long way.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0175par0432	I've come a long way, it's true. Thank you. Today I was in Izmir, we had a martyr's funeral, so I joined the Parliament late. The heart would like to discuss a law that has a wholeness here today that we can discuss in detail and exchange ideas. The heart would want to move to 2016 if we were to step into the construction of Turkey, where parliament is truly an intellectual basis, where laws are built to build solutions to a whole, not patched up. The heart would wish that we could celebrate the passing of the new year of a coven, free of this attitude that does not have a way of dealing with the facts, problems, but who is not afraid to put together a holistic framework for it. But unfortunately, the bag of legislation that we're talking about here today, once again, shows us that the issue of lawmaking and policy building is essentially the continuation of AKP's distorted view. Once again, we see a quick, uncontroversial approach to taking steps to find the ideal in a common way, without having to discuss why they should be extended or why they need to be done, without having to exchange a mutual opinion, without making deep assessments that Turkey needs. The fact that things are being handled by the executives for a while longer, let's make it work. The fact that they're being handled by their approach also prevents interrogations within the Parliament. Then there's nothing left of the authority to live. We, however, are obliged to work here with a whole approach to actually create solutions to reveal what Turkey needs. But, despite the fact that there have been several times in here about the logic of this bag of law that doesn't allow further discussion, I've had to start talking about it once more to get it on the record. Because the way we stand against the bag of law doesn't just bring up a problem with the procedure. As a result of this procedure, we, who are uncomfortable with Turkey being condemned to mediocreity, also feel that this is a fundamental issue. Bag laws are not only a problem of procedure, but a fundamental problem for Turkey. Reform packages that identify Turkey's problems and say something good about the whole are not produced or produced, not by a holistic plan, not by patched logic, but by thinking about the whole, but by thinking about it piece by piece. This bag of laws comes back to us once again with the same patched-up logic. No problems are taken seriously. Turkey, on the other hand, is facing serious problems. It also takes a serious amount to solve serious problems. Seriousity requires presenting structural reforms with holistic approaches, not with laws that operate with Band-Aids like this. Constantly, the effort to save the day also puts in front of us a reality of a law that can't go beyond dressing. Now, I know that some of you think: what difference does it make, piece by piece, no need to say anything about the whole, let the work be done, let the ship walk in some way, let us manage, here we all address our regions. The data clearly tells us that we are doomed to be mediocre when the country is ruled by continuous temporary arrangements with the bag of law. A policy that solves the problem when the country tries to be led by this logic is not only given to Turkey that Turkey does not have a vision of reforms that will provide regrowment, development, fair distribution, social justice, and it is repeated in a loud voice to the world. Turkey, on the other hand, needs a serious institutional transformation. Turkey needs to discuss a serious understanding of development. Turkey needs to talk about how to build its culture of living together. None of this can and cannot be solved by patching and dressing. It condemns us to the middle-income trap. The mid-income trap means the poverty of Turkey, which has worked with the sweat of its forehead since 2008. Every one of us is tired, every citizen watching us is tired. Why? Because they have to work hard, but they don't live in a country where they can get what they're working for. They work hard, but they're poorer today than 2008. A mid-income trap is a product of mediocrity. One of the main reasons for this mediocrity is the way we make this law and the effort to run Turkey with the bag of laws. Turkey's caught in the middle-tech trap. Only 3 percent of his exports contain technology. The approach that puts Turkey in this mediocrity and prevents it from moving forward is this bag of laws approach, and it's an approach that can't go beyond dressing. Turkey is caught in a central-human capital trap. Our tired children in schools can't access information through their education. And because they don't have the information to compete, they're having a hard time with exams. But our kids are smart, and our kids have potential. But as long as we force them to believe that there is no potential, and instead of trying to correct them in a holistic development package, with numbers, with the education policy that doesn't go beyond bragging about college numbers, here we are, a country that's condemned to subparity and bagging laws. There's no way to understand the effort to extend these temporary substances. If the temporary 55th article has to be extended over and over again, then there is a permanent problem where we have to talk about the same solution over and over again. So let's say -- let's be nice -- that some of the unextended substances that were not extended today in 2015 because of the two choices that Turkey was living unnecessarily. Let's say with good intentions that, well, let's open up the discussion floor for them to be extended and now let's give you the opportunity to create a common mind on the ground of this discussion. But, well, then, why extend it a year, why on the ground where there's no discussion that these substances have been extended for a year? Then it's getting harder and harder for us to approach with good intentions. This bill is a very inadequate bill of content, beyond the fact that its basic logic is wrong. In order to make a complete twenty-minute speech about what the content is, we need a basis for discussion that goes beyond the messages of those of us who are condemned to search for a key word. But we did our homework, and we know from the key words there what to say about a Turkish story. There's a lot of concrete suggestions on the distribution of revenues and the lack of wage policy, which is the most fundamental determinant of this bill that you've introduced to us today. Turkey has no price policy. It is no wonder that Turkey does not have a fee policy because it does not have any holistic policy established by the government. However, this lack of wage policy always compels you to bring in a bag of laws, to extend temporary substances. If the price policy is not defined in a holistic way, if it's done by a fictional palliative approach to giving certain classes certain wage increases at certain times, then each time, we try to manage with a group of corrections for a group of employees in a bag of law enforcement. However, a good wage policy deals with the whole, knowing that when it changes the cost of a class, it acts with this technical knowledge, knowing that it will affect the wages in all Turkey; and when the minimum wage changes, it sets out with the fact that other wages will also change in the country. Last night, we pay 1,300 lira for the election declaration. Turkey needs an approach that goes beyond putting in a declaration. See, the result of Turkey's non-payment policy is Turkey, which has the minimum wage of average medians among OECD countries. This means that millions of people have worked hard to earn wages in Turkey, and they can only earn minimum wage. However, a good wage policy defines minimum wage as the lowest base. We are screaming for the construction of a Turkish economy where the average is far above minimum wage. We, with a whole sense of reform, will make arrangements where Turkey is not sentenced to minimum wage. Otherwise, when you try to fix the minimum wage, you're forced to make a fee for privates, privates, privates, and privates, and take away other rights that have been earned by the correction you've made. Turkey needs holistic policies. One of the things that can't be avoided in these holistic policies is the right wage policy that will provide social justice. So, what's the right price policy? It's not the law that sets the right price policy. On the other hand, the vision of development by the Republican People's Party in the 2015 election declaration clearly reveals what a holistic wage policy should be in Turkey. The first step in a holistic wage policy is to correct institutions; it passes through law, democracy and freedom. Where there's no freedom, there's no ideas, there's no innovation where there's no innovation, there's no productivity where there's no productivity, and there's no higher pay where there's no productivity. To remove Turkey from this spiral, we must first establish a legal order that will encourage us to discuss different ideas. Second: We need to make quick arrangements for social justice in Turkey. I'd like to know if there's a minimum wage income tax clause in today's fee arrangements. I wish we could start with the dressings of 5 million minimum wagers and give them a reason to work. After we give them that reason, people are going to invest in themselves, and they're going to bring about the efficiency that's going to bring out the rising fees. Third: Turkey needs a reform series redefining its competitiveness. Turkey now needs power, not to hear the framework of structural reform stuck in all of our mouths. When structural reforms are not defined differently, when Turkey is not considered for its competitiveness, we are doomed to live in Turkey, which is locked up with the law to correct wages. Fourth: Turkey must also remember the reality of sustainability in wages. In this framework, we share with you the steps that should be taken in a whole reform package that does not need to enter into a bag of legislation about how the price issue should be resolved. Another key word in this law is education and universities. Turkey has a college problem. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share some data. Yes, Turkey has opened 110 new universities in recent years. So, what does 110 new colleges do? As a professor, I have a very serious concern as a person who has produced science in Turkey, because the approach, which has made efforts to deal with ODTÜ (ODTU) in a Turkey where science has no freedoms to produce science, also shows a very clear picture of what kind of university is wanted. (HPP) However, Turkey does not need an ODTÜ, it needs many ODTUs; Turkey needs universities that produce science and make it speak with its science. Yes, 110 universities have been opened -- great -- we've passed on the numbers of youth unemployment -- it's super -- but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share data on the science in Turkey from 40 countries. According to OECD data, Turkey's sad state says that Turkey is 34, the 34th place among 40 countries, when it comes to spending, Turkey is ranked as the 36th in the number of articles that scientists write in Turkey; when you look at the number of patents in 40 countries; when you look at the number of scientists -- the number of scientists -- the number of scientists -- the number of scientists in Turkey -- when you look at the number of scientists -- when you look at the number of scientists -- and look at the number of scientists that have led to another production of scientific production that its production -- Turkey is ranked 34, but when it comes to spend its 40 countries. Are we surprised? No, we're not surprised. Each time we say that the actions and reform packages offered to us again are packages that go beyond spending. Here we say again from this bench: The approach that spends but doesn't do the necessary reforms in return for any positive painting to come out in return for spending puts Turkey in those ranks, Turkey doesn't deserve it. Gerard Piel says that unpublished science is dead. We must not kill science. And to avoid killing science, we need to use our approach to college not to discuss a matter of retirement age within the bag of law, but to open up a basis for what kind of universities we really want. Turkey has important issues. By setting up unplanned universities, by fighting the ODTÜ (the ODTÜ) who will train professors for these universities, we will not be able to go beyond saying, "Keep going a little longer, keep going." Right, we have people who produce science at the age of 72 and still contribute, so we have to be able to get them into this system in a different way. But all of this requires a mindset that can think about a holistic approach, discuss it, and ask the question clearly, and not fear ODTU. But it's clear from every point of view that the government doesn't see universities as a science center, it sees them as signs and it sees them as a staffing area. Again, this law tells the new, quality professor Turkey needs, the new jobs of these faculty, what scientific areas to talk about Turkey. However, our issue with our universities is not about which universities will work after the age of 67. Our issue is what kind of university will be involved in Turkey's needed reforms. In this regard, the Republican People's Party has made a very clear proposal. Come, first, let's have an approach that is not afraid of freedom. Let's put together universities where different ideas can be produced. Let us build the universities today, not with the SEC, but freely, of their own free will. Let's move science to the centre of Turkey and use science in Turkey, Karagöz, Hacivats, not to reproduce them with technology, but to take scientific steps that will make Turkey speak to the world. Let's eliminate the need for Saint Sancars to do research in America, make sure they win the Nobel Prizes here at the universities. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In short, there's no way to solve Turkey's important problems by filling the bags with patched bundles, dressing logic. Turkey has very important structural problems, not a single day to lose. He's going to win the lost generations, he's going to hear the silent screams, and now he needs a council to do business. Let us begin a new era of legislation in 2016, not by the law, but by arguing, by speaking deeply, by not running from the truth, and by not chasing after those who speak the truth. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit02spe0176par0454	Thank you, Mr. Böke. The talks on the entire proposal are over on behalf of the groups. I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:30.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal Number 12 The commission is here. The government is here. Now, on behalf of the person, it belongs to Mehmet Uğur Dilipak, the deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dilipak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0177par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 12 rows of law enforcement that are being discussed. I hereby salute the grand jury. Dear friends, in every election he ever made from his organization, the AK PARTY, which I'm honored and proud to be a member of, made a very important commitment to our citizens before the November 1st election. Maybe someone couldn't even imagine these commitments. But our citizen believed, and on November 1st, he showed great gratitude to our party. From here, I give thanks to the citizens of the land of heroes, of the national struggle, of Milkyman Imam, Ridvan Hodja, Senem Ayşe, and Seven Beautiful Men, who voted for our party at a record level on November 1st, under the lofty roof. On the 79th anniversary of his death, I am congratulating the poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy. Dear friends, the EC PARTY had publicly announced that it would change reforms in many areas in its election declaration before the election. With these reforms, he intended to bring our country to the level of troubled civilization, the vision of 2023-2071. One of these changes is these laws that are being discussed. This bill aims to extend the duration of certain practices in the legislation, which ended on 31/12/2015, and to calculate the salaries of contracted men and men with the same amount of salary as with other public officials, and to be given new staff for the appointment of teachers by the Ministry of National Education. Dear friends, the bill I'm trying to sum up upstairs will be redesigned on the basis of the civil wages of the rights of our heroes who guard the most remote part of our country, the rights to our security. So, based on the minimum wage coefficient, the salary of contractors and privates, determined by the employee's salary coefficient, will greatly increase the salary of our heroic soldiers. In the article concerning privates and privates, the number of indicators was raised to 1,172, to 1.040, to 1.040, to 910. There's been a huge increase. In the same way, the young country was intended to increase our privates and privates who served in Cyprus by about 100 per cent. On this occasion, the hero who drinks witness in the fight against terrorism in the defense of the country, remembers our Mehmet-chik with mercy, and I wish our veterans a long life. Dear friends, another item of this bill is about social welfare and solidarity. The current law, which ends at the end of 31/12/2015, is being renewed. Because our students' scholarships will be cut if they do not continue to receive a grant on conditional basis. The period will be extended to 31/12/2016 to try to resolve this problem. Thus, with the awareness of being a social state, let the state live. They will be able to demonstrate their activities in accordance with the mission of the foundations that bridge between the people and the students who follow their philosophy. The decision that the pension of professors who are part of the bill until the age of 72 is of great importance in today's conditions. You know, in Article 30 of Higher Education Law 2547, the studies of faculty are listed as 67. However, the retirement age limit of professors from the state universities established in 2006, 2007 and 2008 was introduced as 72 years old until 21/12/2015. The duration of this arrangement is scheduled to be extended to December 31st, 2016. Thus, it was intended for the next generation to take advantage of them when scientists were most efficient and full. Otherwise, retirement is a loss to our country. Because a scientist does not grow easily; years of experience has contributed to the development of our country with knowledge, with writing. These teachers must not be cut off easily from the next generation. The mission to be a guide for new academics will continue with the law. Dear friends, another part of the bill is about teaching staff. On October 4, 2015, we have the satisfaction of discussing the adoption of the law on the February term of our Prime Minister's declaration. So there have been changes in education that could be considered reform during 13 years of AK PARTI rule. One of these changes is the situation of teachers waiting to be appointed. When we look at 13 years of AK PARTY, we see that over 500,000 teachers have been appointed. This number corresponds to 55 per cent of teachers currently on staff. In other words, more than half of the teachers currently in office are teachers appointed during the AK PARTY rule period. On the other hand, the total number of classrooms has been raised to 570,000, with a total of 234,000 classes. So about 50 percent of all classrooms in the AK PARTI administration have been brought to education. Which means that all of the work done during the AK PARTY administrations was done before the AK PARTY authorities. The average student presence in classrooms has been reduced from 60 to 20. There's a lot of words to be said here. Of course, our goal is to eat grapes, we have no problem with the lace. On this occasion, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to our ministers of National Education, who have once again served here. With 12,500 new teachers to be appointed, we have the right pride of catching the staff employment of 30,000 teachers we promised in the election. I ask that our teachers be a cause of good for our country, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0178par0026	Thank you, Mr. Dilipak. On behalf of the individuals, the second and last speaker is Dursun Cicek, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Flower. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0179par0031	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, at this hour, I salute everyone with love and respect. As a soldier in the Armed Forces for 35 years, I am honored and honored to serve with you in the legislature which currently serves as a legislator. The basic power of the Turkish Armed Forces is the manpower that is well-trained, believed and motivated. Of course, in the motivation of this human power, economic conditions, allowances, salaries are of great importance. I would like to continue my thanks to the republic that has allowed us to reach today's level of education and life, especially the Armed Forces, and to all those who have contributed to the modern Republic of Turkey, which is a symbol of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who assures us that we should be honorable citizens of the republic from being servants of the king. I keep my words from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, wishing peace and prosperity to my nation and to the world of mankind, a new year of hope, where darkness becomes light, and darkness becomes light. I'd like to share with you my opinion on the Law Proposal to Change Some Decisions Under Law and Law 12th Orders. In this proposal, we find that the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights are a set of regulations that violate the principle of equality, which do not conform to the principle of simplicity. We certainly appreciate the rights of personnel at every step of the way, but we don't think that's enough. It is part of this law proposal that we have distributed to Mehmetchiks for years as private and private allowances, that the allowances that we have provided for bureaucratic costs are increased by 100 per cent, which are not worth the money we pay. However, when we look at the basics, the sergeant's salary is from 48 liras to 93 liras... so it looks like about 100 percent. Now, when we divide 93 pounds into 30 days, we're only raising a bagel money. So these increases, in borders, in the fight against terrorism, can't be the equivalent of the work of Mehmetchik, who represents our nation all over the world, who drives our flag around, and we can't measure it at $93. Well, we can't fool anyone, people, just because we're making a 100 percent increase. Now, is it possible to go seven days and twenty-four hours at the border at this stage, to the sergeants who work for life and blood, to the corporals, to the corporals, to the Mehmetchiks, to the 72 lira? Military student allowances go up to $285. They can only buy two bagels for each meal. The Turkish army is the national army; the Turkish army is a training ground for people from all over Turkey whose economic situation is not affordable for housing money, university money, where our young people are trained and brought to the nation. So these allowances are very important to students. In 1976, I remember receiving a gift for my mother and father with the money I raised in my allowances when I entered the military. Therefore, this 285 lira is not enough for a student in the cadet. We can't boast of this; it doesn't suit our coven, our nation. The arrangement for specialists is linked to the contact officer coefficient at minimum wage. You know, there's a lot more social sensitivity about minimum wage, and since this year's increase is higher than the officer's coefficient, there's something going on here against the senior staff. Thus, if the arrangement of this matter remained the same, if the minimum wage had remained above it, the increase would have been much greater. Our proposal is that all Mehmetchiks -- regardless of whether or not they become experts -- should be raised to minimum wage, allowances, salaries. We, the Republican People's Party, have proposed to the High Assembly over and over again. The last time we made a similar offer was December 5, 2014. In the name of justice and equality, this proposal must be passed in the House. Besides, Mehmetchik's insurance premiums must be paid by our government. There are various military practices, and especially the practice of paying military service creates inequalities and injustices in the repayment of the country's debt, causing their conscience to ache. In each law, the amount paid has been changed and this injustice is further increased. Does the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have an answer for their work, their lives, their health because they have no money? The transition of the Republican People's Party's three-month military system during the summer programme will serve to resolve such problems, both for equality, for the sake of justice and for the shortening of military time, in order to solve the military issue of students, employees. Those who want to serve as Mehmetdjik, an expert in the solution of unemployment, which is more than 20 per cent, should be given a right to a minimum wage for continuing military service, provided they volunteer. The level and degree of deployment of Turkish Armed Forces personnel and all public officials -- the highest and the highest in progress is the three-period of 1. According to the educational situation, equality should be made, including duty compensations, senior staff sergeants and majors. Of course, at first, I stressed that the morale of the army, the morale of the Armed Forces, is very important. Now, while the army was being undermined by conspiracy cases, while the country's Chief of Staff was imprisoned for building and leading a terrorist organization, what was the Council of Ministers responsible for providing national security and preparing the armed forces for national defence? What did he do that night, other than hand over the honorable members of the Armed Forces to a parallel judgment with legal regulations issued in the House? It is the honor and loyalty of this House that we must pass the extradition law for the return of this broken honor. We will bring this bill to the House as soon as possible and present it to you. The basic power of the state is deterrent power, provided by security forces. If there's no power, if it's not standing, there's no power that can save us from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan. So I say we take care of our national army, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0180par0047	Thank you, Mr. Flower. All speeches on the proposal are complete. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for 20 minutes on the entire proposal. I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who have entered the system, respectively. I'll save ten minutes of 20 for the question and ten for the answer. We're going to question-answer. Mr. Haberal, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0181par0052	Thank you. At Hacettepe University, the target of the terrorist organization's urban extensions was all university members who showed a will to live under the same flag and stood up to separatism. The student-like militants who infiltrated the campus have targeted students who are united against them with republican and national consciousness, causing them to be injured. Who and where do they get the courage and the courage of those who seek the safety and educational rights of the students? Are students particularly provoked to plan a second Firat Çakıroğlu murder? What is the Ministry of Hacettepe University, Ankara Governorate doing? Are these militants who put all kinds of hurtful materials in the school still being treated like students? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0182par0055	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0183par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the Bazaar Group, which has been investigated for the resistance to travel, has been acquitted today, and I salute them from here. Again, I am renewing my wish for freedom from Can Dündar and Erdem Gül, and for the arrest of 30 press workers along with them, to the workers of the press. In addition, yes, unfortunately, economic policies are aimed at enriching companies. In terms of traffic insurance, small agencies who cut insurance policies are about to go under while traffic insurance rates are up twice as high. About 15,000 agents times 4, 60,000 people are about to close down, and the commission has dropped to 1 percent. I strongly condemn the destruction of small agencies in the interest of large corporations.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0184par0059	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0185par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Two school terrorist groups were burned last week by militants in Mersin. Mr. Minister of National Education, we would like to request that these schools be immediately repaired and brought back to the new era. At the moment, 800 students cannot attend school. They've been transferred to other schools, but it seems our Minister of National Education doesn't have much time to listen to this. We demand that these schools be repaired immediately and brought back to the second term. They haven't even been scouted in these schools yet. At the entrance of Mersin, four buses were stoned by the militants of the separatist organization again today; there are some who have been injured by the athletes of the Krasnus Force. The number of security guards in this area in particular needs to be increased. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0186par0064	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0187par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there's a Medical Park Hospital in Elazig Province. We're getting reports from the patients who are lying there that some patients have been reported to the Social Security Agency that they've been billed for surgery, even though there are no surgeries, and that's why they've been audited, but they've been suspended and they haven't had any other hospitals like this in public, so I'm here to tell you: what kind of procedure are you going to do to make so that this public purchase doesn't expire? Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0188par0068	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0189par0069	Mr. President, my question to Mr. Secretary is that Mr. Chairman of the ruling party has given scholarships and numbers from dorms, but the student scholarship and housing issue are not pleasant. At the beginning of each school year, we face two problems with our students - first, housing and housing. When will the search for our students be over? Second: Again, Mr. Power Speaker has stated the scholarships given, but at the beginning of each school year, there are students who are looking for us very much, and we know that even students who have failed their education and have returned home because they failed to receive a scholarship. Is there a study for a radical solution to this problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0190par0072	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0191par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask my ministers a question about welfare and solidarity. How many foundations across Turkey are there, and how many staff work in these foundations? If they give us any information about him -- I think the people from the relevant agency are here -- we'll be very pleased. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0192par0076	Mr. Karbük...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0193par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how many soldiers have returned from Başika, how many soldiers do we still have there? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0194par0080	Thank you. Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0195par0082	Mr. Secretary, many officers, generals and admirals in the Turkish Armed Forces have been pushed out of the system in cases you describe as the case of the Kumpas. Do you have any work to get these officers, admirals and generals back into the system? The second thing is, is it a coincidence that none of the people who have been pushed out of the system in these cases have ever been assigned to any of these companies, especially in the Defense Industry Undersecretary? Are you planning on assigning them? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0196par0085	Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0197par0086	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, as you know, especially in the last week, in our universities, especially the ODTÜ university, we find that a dissolution, especially based on the religious beliefs of individuals, has been fueled and a fundamental number of events are taking place. How will you prevent people from turning against each other because of their thoughts or beliefs, which we wish would remain in the past? This is reflected especially at elementary school and high school level. Who's being coerced? For example, there are also compulsions in fasting to perform the prayer. How are you going to prevent this? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0198par0089	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0199par0090	Mr. President, it's a fact that we have no desire in the east or the southeast. A group of teachers knows that our friends are being sent to seminars in their own provinces, and that they're being sent to a situation that is, like, on leave. However, in these surrounding cities, teachers who are affected and unable to find the moral and motivation to train and teach, or the anxious teachers, have also returned to their provinces and faced certain other public officials, such as the report in hospitals. I'd like to know if there's a policy taken by our Minister of the Ministry, or what kind of work is being considered. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0198par0092	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0200par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. A moment ago, I asked if I could speak to the Minister before I saw him -- so I thank the Minister -- and I just saw him -- and I sent him my note about the appointment of seven or eight school principals in Butler. The Minister has announced that he will do what is necessary, and the baneman has said that he will meet with the Director of National Education, so thank you for that. Meanwhile, I celebrate the year 2016 of the entire House and the great Turkish nation with my sincerest feelings. I wish our whole nation a healthy and peaceful year. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0201par0097	Thank you. I promise the Minister to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0202par0100	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I received my note about the burning school in Mersin. We've probably already made the discovery, and we've been in the thing for repairs, but if it hasn't, I got my note, and we'll do it. In many of our provinces, we have schools that have been damaged, destroyed, destroyed at various levels due to terrorist attacks. We have preparations to repair them as soon as possible, even if it can't be repaired, to build new ones instead, we have no weakness for that as a state. Of course, I'll pass along this note to the Minister of Health about the abuses at Medical Park Hospital. If there's a legal way to avoid the statute of limitations, there's no way to make up for it, we need to investigate it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0203par0103	You need to process it by 31, or it'll be five years old.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0202par0104	Then I'll immediately give our health minister our note by reminding him of this December 31st date. The housing and housing problem... yes, in the last ten years, there have been some very serious renovations and additions in our homes, which our friends have already mentioned in their talks as numbers. There is actually a real increase in capacities due to our homes that have largely been converted from the ward system to at least 3 rooms, but one of the reasons why the number is not increasing as much as we want is because we've moved from the ward system to the room system, our students, right now, have a hygienic, healthy room with a bathroom in it. Of course, we still have a lot to do with the dorm. And it doesn't involve any of your questions, but maybe it's a matter of curiosity that the dorms don't depend on our Ministry of National Education, but there are pensions that are our responsibility as the Ministry of National Education. It's not connected. I mean, on behalf of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. Our Ministry of Youth and Sports has made a huge increase in this area over the past two years, with a huge increase in the number of dorms, both in quality and in numbers. They're also reinforcing it in a rental way. In our national education ministry pensions, the number of pensions reached 1,450 in 2002 rose to 2,514 (as of last year's 2014-2015 school year). Our friend has already summarized our increases in scholarships on behalf of the party group. With regard to the safety of the students at Hacettepe University, our security units are taking the necessary measures, but I will again be a follower of this matter in the eyes of the chancellor and the SEC.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0204par0108	The terrorist leader's banner is hanging at Hacettepe University, Mr. Secretary, look. Here you are, Beytepe Campus. For your information.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0202par0110	Yes, as a matter of fact, about that... Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0205par0112	Mr. President, thank you. Again, in addition to the answers given by our Minister in these questions, it would require the personal responsibility of the public official to limit Mr. Tanal. Therefore, we think it would be appropriate for public officials to begin processing or suing the statute of limitations to avoid taking personal responsibility without having to say what to do? But it is also open to the public. In this, the Ministry of Health, Social Security, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security -- which may have been a separate tip from you -- meets the requirements. Thank you for that and for your sensitivity. It's everyone's job to protect the orphan's rights. Another member of parliament, how many members of the armed forces have retired as a result of cases that have been closely followed by the public? How many have returned again, and for those who have returned or retired, do you have any work to compensate for the victims of this case? Due to these cases, 366 personnel have been retired, while a total of 205 acquitted personnel are continuing their duties in the Turkish Armed Forces. As Mr. Cicek said earlier, a draft by our Chief of Staff has been sent to our Ministry of Labor to address the loss of retired and decent personnel who have been lost due to these cases. As of today, we offer these views to other ministries. When we come to an agreement from those ministries, I really think that the victims of this case will be eliminated. Again, another question, of Sarıhan. Mr. Sarıhan, I say this from the bottom of my heart, and I believe that I consider it the wealth of Turkey to be in different opinions, different beliefs, different ethnic groups, or to have a place to belong to, or to feel that way. So, in different beliefs, in different ethnic identity, in different political opinions, everyone is equal to the basis of constitutional citizenship in this country, no one has any advantage over the other, that's the general rule. Well, in that rule... Of course, when I say that, life doesn't go from today to tomorrow. But starting with elementary school, maybe even kindergarten, you know, how we created a human being from childhood into a monster, how we raised a human being in a climate like this -- a education system, a society system -- I think we're all responsible for that. Our Minister of National Education is here, our government is here, but with social responsibility, there is a duty to each group, every political group. Starting in kindergarten, we believe that Turkey is rich in all colors, including university and university, and Turkey is Turkey in all colors, and that one of these colors or ideas or different belief schools is being kept out, and the other will weaken Turkey's power. And I think we should all work together on a common understanding. There should be no constraints, and if there is, it should be removed in elementary school, middle school, and high school. Faith isn't forced, it's voluntary; even if you force it, it's already in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in us, it's in other ways, it's in us, it's in the heart. Also, I would like to present a general report to both my friends and friends: Musul was taken over by the DEAS on June 2014 by the Governor of Musul, who was under the control of Musul National Guard, who had been under the control of the Governor of Mosul, who had been given training from 29 March 2015 to about 2,500 personnel. The establishment of the international coalition was also referred to coalition authorities that the training-dos program was started in Iraq before the coalition and that a large number of them were trained in the fight against the DEAS. I visited and visited one of the camps where the training was provided - both by me and our Prime Minister. In view of the outbreak of conflicts between the DEAŞ and the Iraqi Kurdish Regional Management in the Sincar region, with the experience that we have obtained from the incident of the Musul (Musul) -- which is about 25 kilometers [25 km] away from the DEAŞ contact line -- we have seen it in the incident of our consulate in the capital -- we can call it the capital -- the Turkish educational and Iraqi personnel in the region -- in view of a threat to education given to Iraqi personnel -- to the Kurdish regional administration in the region, and to ensure that the security of our Musul consulate could be taken hostage by the DEA. In this case, additional elements for the safety of the main base area were carried out in November-December. On December 14, 2015, our elements in the main base area were reacquainted, and some of our elements were deployed to the Bamami base in northern Iraq. I've told you before, in this Iraq, there are about 15 countries who teach. Therefore, we need to be able to explain why Spain, Italy, America, Portugal were there. If those countries have the right to be there, I think that Turkey, which is neighbouring with Iraq, also has the right to be there. The training there... was also visited by both the Kurdish administration of Northern Iraq and the Iraqi Defence Minister and thanked for the service. Then why did you withdraw? A move you made, a right move, but if it caused a misunderstanding with the contribution of the outside forces, it was also considered appropriate that a retrial would be necessary to correct this misunderstanding. On December 16th and 17th, the DEAS attacked our units in the main base area with Grad 21 rockets and mortars. Four armed forces were injured in the attack, four members of the Mosul National Guard were injured, two personnel were killed. The Menfur attack was immediately responded by our units in the main base area, followed by a second attack on the Başika base area on 27 December 2015, even today the DEAS has placed images of it on their websites, where five of our soldiers were slightly injured, and one of the local forces lost their lives. All of this shows how necessary it is for our government to send reinforcements to Başika. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say that the reason Turkey is in Başika is that the Iraqis are first trained and that peace and security comes to Iraq. Mr. President, I salute you again. If you have questions we can't answer here, our friends will answer them in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0206par0130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I hereby submit to your votes...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0207par0133	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0206par0134	...I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0207par0135	No, so there's no obvious.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0208par0136	No, Mr. President, there isn't!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0207par0137	It's not obvious, Mayor, it's not obvious.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0209par0138	Yes, Mr. President. Vote with the electronic device, Mr. President, if there's any conflict.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0210par0139	To determine whether or not there are enough decisions -- of course, our clerk members are new -- I vote once again, especially if our clerks are paying attention:
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0207par0140	They're here!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0211par0141	Oh, for God's sake! Is that what this is?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0210par0142	It's agreed, there's enough to decide.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0211par0143	This is such a trick!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0210par0144	Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part includes the 1st to 6th article, including the 6th article. The first word on the first chapter is for the group members of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0212par0150	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the first chapter of the 12th row of the meeting of the Law Proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. We're just in the beginning of the semester, and we're discussing the second bag arrangement. Despite the promises made, the AKP has been unable to give up bagging, dealing. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been made into a sub-stair law. The amendments to these eight laws, consisting of 10 fundamental substances and have no interest in each other, are also intermittent, incomplete, and unintended. By offering this law, the allowances of privates and military students who have been neglected for years and are at a very low level are raised. The National Movement Party has already submitted law proposals on this issue, but the AKP has not taken it into consideration. Now we find it positive that it has reached the point we call it, but we don't think it's enough. Also, as the National Movement Party, we say that military term should be counted as a direct service in the pension account, and insurance premiums should be covered by the state. Again, aid to the families of needy privates and privates who perform military service must be raised to $500. Again, with this bill, a major injustice is being dealt with by petty officer pensioners who have been exposed and victimized for thirteen years. As the National Movement Party, we've been bringing up law proposals and motions for years, and we're finally resolving the principle problem of petty officers that we've asked to be corrected. However, the fact that the petty officers haven't received a severance fee since the beginning of the day and that their pensions have been significantly reduced when they retire is again ignored, and the problem of our petty officers is again ignored. Basically, there are many different practices within the Turkish Armed Forces that are incompatible with the duties and responsibilities of executive, financial and social rights. See, veterans and veteran gendarmes have been screaming for years, but the AKP government ignores it. Experts face unbearable problems. Even experts who are extremely underprivileged are forbidden to be sick when they can't afford their duties and seniors. If he's sick for more than 90 days, he's out of a job. That is why these brothers want to leave their profession and switch to other institutions. The Specialist Private Law must be redesigned according to the conditions of the day and amended with degrees and additional indicators according to the state of collection and seniority, and improve the essence, fiscal and social rights. Experts must be given their weapons by the state and allowed to carry them with them. Expert gendarmes should also be granted the rights to their status, their own specific additional indicators, and their compensation scores should be raised in line with fairness. It's never acceptable for some personnel to enter military homes. All social facilities and military houses must be open to all personnel. In addition, justice must be established in the distribution of housing and the personnel who are required to live in the residence must be assigned regardless of their rank. The punishment system, which restricts personal freedom, is also illegal without a judge's ruling, must be removed. The unjust practices that have caused unrest in the Turkish Armed Forces, making staff unhappy, must be eliminated, and the necessary arrangements for resolving inequalities must be made immediately. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these days, when we make a promise to the Prime Minister, we do what we have to do, our word is bond. We make promises, we do. We hear them often. I'll be damned! Let's also consider world commitments from non-responsive personnel and wage reforms related to public employees to resolving inequalities in pensions, closing the teachers' deficits, allowing all teachers to be appointed untested, giving their health workers a sense of weariness, from temporary workers to substitute imams and muezzins, aside from what Mr. Prime Minister has said before the elections. Seriously, what happened to the news the Prime Minister gave to the driver's shop seven and a half months ago? What did Mr. Prime Minister say at the Ankara Driver's Shop Meeting on May 12, 2015? If you renew your private public bus by the end of 2016, we'll pay for your OTV. Where is Hani? We're entering 2016, and the government's 2016 Action Plan does not appear. In addition, the camera that would be attached to the vehicles said that the GPRS would reduce the price of taxes, that the van drivers would solve their problem about motor vehicle tax with a legal change, and that it would add the definition of public buses to the Highway Traffic Act. What happened to those words? Did you lie on your promises to our driver's shop? I thought you said so. Now it's a protest bond? We promised, we did. Let's take a look at what you're saying: we've issued a decision from the Council of Ministers that provides interest-free loan support for our reputation, and it's been implemented. True, these decisions have been published, but do you have any idea what conditions it would take for a tradesman to benefit from interest-free loans? No taxes, no bonus, no credit. If there's any tradesmen left without taxes or debts, let's put up a statue. Our tradesman is in debt, unable to pay his loans, his dues, his taxes and bonus debts because he can't earn them. The shopkeeper's situation is best known to his accountants and financial advisors. See, the İstanbul Free Accountant Financial Advisors' Office recently recommended a white page. He listed the arrangements, such as the repayable restructuring of tax and bonus debts, a five-point reduction to those who pay regular taxes and bonuses, and a reduction in the share of indirect taxes, as solution proposals. Let's make these arrangements first and quickly. Since the AKP government can't possibly not know the problems of the tradesman and the artist, it ignores them, ignores them. Nowadays, the owners, especially our driver's shop, are suffering from traffic insurance. Excessive increases in mandatory traffic insurance premiums have driven car owners maddened, blown his insurance. Traffic insurance policies are almost equivalent to car insurance. The insurance premiums are filled with price mix-ups, arbitrary practices and lack of control, but the government's not from there. The government must not observe the victimization of the citizen, but must take the necessary measures at once. Again, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that just before the November 1st elections, we are making agreements with the banks at the General Assembly meeting of the Turkish Retirement Association on October 21, 2015. Our pensioners will start to receive at least 300 lira a year. What about the retirement promotion? It's not in the plan of action either. Did the Prime Minister say that before the election? The pensioners have been fighting for the bank promotion that all employees have received for eight years. The AKP government hasn't even done that yet. It is the AKP governments who have made their pensions inequality, as they have not fulfilled their promise, that we will eliminate the inequalities and imbalances between their pensions. It is the AKP's government, which in 2008 reduces the welfare share of pensions from 100 per cent to 30 per cent. What words are you referring to? I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0213par0167	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to the People's Democratic Party Group, Chair MP Kadir Yıldırım. Here you are, Mr. Lightning, and your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0214par0171	Dear President, Congressman, first of all, I salute you all. Before I go into what I really want to say about the non-assigned problem of both the general and Kurdish teacher candidates, I'm going to address the funeral oasis very briefly, as the families keep getting calls. After that, I'll get to the point, if I have a say in the next five minutes, if I have to. For one thing, funerals that are now, unfortunately, rotting and have been on hold for over a week, actually mean bringing both humanity and Islam underfoot. As someone who's done his Master and Ph.D. on theology and studied five or six years in Kurdish madrases, why does that mean that? Because the Holy Prophet (ASV) instructed us to stop fighting the pagans, even the pagans he fought the most, to bury the bodies. The same Prophet of Islam in one of his scenes says, "When you see the funeral coming, stand up." Says the prophet, out of respect for a Jewish funeral passing by, and as a result, this is a Jewish funeral. Why do you stand up, O Messenger of God? Why did he also teach the world a lesson in the form of a man, saying to his fellow man who asked and wondered, "Is he not a man?" Because, in one verse, it is said that Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahrim, I mean, we've made mankind respectable, we've made it valuable. Those who defame this verse are drawing attention to the word "humanson" here. No matter who it is, no matter what religion or faith it is, both the living and the dead are respected. They have judged in the form of the living and the dead. Therefore, it must be done urgently and very quickly to ensure that the funerals that are being held today will be buried immediately. The Prophet, who rose out of respect for the Jewish funeral, also says that at the point where the funeral was laid, you are more likely to step on the fire than you are to step on the grave where the funeral was laid. Therefore, the immediate resolution of this is as important as it is in a human sense, as it is in an Islamic way. As far as I'm concerned, the AK PARTY was waiting to be appointed 72,000 teachers when it came to power. Today, the number has exceeded 300,000, and because they have not been appointed in the last five or six years, more than 30 candidates of teachers have, unfortunately, committed suicide. Some of the candidates for teachers who are waiting for suicide are approximately 1,500 teachers who have graduated from the Kurdistan Department, where I was president at Mardin Artuklu University. According to protocols we did then with the Ministry of National Education, we trained them, prepared the textbooks, and received the promise of appointment. But in all the time that's passed, he hasn't been appointed, he hasn't been assigned, he hasn't been asked to be appointed. After 18 days of hunger strike, 18 Kurdish teachers were appointed last year. I mean, every hunger strike went down on one appointment at the beginning of its day. So I said, "I wish we could do this in a hundred and eighty days instead of 18 days, at least we'd have 180 candidates appointed, if we'd known. And this year, only one of our teachers was given a very funny appointment in Zazaki dialect, including 11 in Kurmanci dialect. Instead, you can raise as many teachers as you want, and we'll make their appointment... I also delivered a letter to our Prime Minister, Mr. Erdogan, who, when he came to Mardin, looked at the number we had graduated from, and looked at the books we had prepared, and said that it was a revolution and that these would be appointed, but unfortunately, in spite of all the time that I've been saying, this is a very funny number of appointments. When I wondered why they weren't appointed, I realized that some of the people who put me in charge had tagged me to both the AK and the AK PARTI power and the Ministry of National Education. And the reason I'm plugging is because I'm using a pro-HDP language and I'm going to be a pro-HDP staff. At the time, however, when this elective Kurdish lesson was revealed, HDP was already boycotting this class, and HDP served for me in the service of the AKP PARTY. However, the AK PARTY and some unions, associations and congregations who may have tried to surprise him insisted that I had gone to a construction on the HDP line in this direction. And why were they doing that? There are several reasons for that. The reason for all of this was my defence of education in the native language, and the other was that I took two or three Alevi academics into college and into the department, and the third was that I acted on the orders of those unions, associations and congregations that I was just talking about. Look, basic language education is as much an Islamic right as it is a human being. As a matter of fact, on the basis of the Treaty of Medina, the Prophet gave Jews the right to be taught in private education in private houses, called "sonulmidras," and the same Holy Prophet gave the Jews the right to defend in the same language, based on the same Medina Convention, a thousand or four hundred years ago. Look, a Jewish citizen is being court-martialed because his native language is Hebrew, he doesn't speak Arabic, and he doesn't speak Hebrew because the president's native language is Arabic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and the Prophet intervenes and appoints Zayd bin Sabit as an interpreter, and in the history of Islam, perhaps in the history of the world, he gives the first example of defense.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0215par0181	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0214par0182	The right given a thousand and four hundred years ago, unfortunately, was not recognized by a conservative and religious party, and a Dianet President appointed by this party opted for silence. And I give this to your attention and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0216par0184	You have misinformation, search, Google.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0215par0185	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the groups, the last word belongs to Tekirdağ MP Faik Oztrak (Tekirdağ) on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0217par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the first chapter of the 12 rows of Law Proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when I spoke here a week ago, I criticised the bag of legislation, and today, we're facing a bag of legislation that's been made into a basic law. Now, I want to ask you, what are we missing? Why are we opposed to the open discussion of the laws in public, to the knowledge of everyone's vocabulary, to the better development of these laws, to the better service of our nation? There's no way to figure that out. A friend of ours just said, "Let's not work until the night until them, let's work until the morning, but let's see if we can make the law that will serve our nation, that will serve our nation for a long time. Now, look, you've brought this law today, and you're making an arrangement for Article 8 of this law. In Article 8 you're saying that we used to determine the salaries of specialists and privates by keeping minimum wage, but now, we're raising minimum wage, so let's not take advantage of that because the salary scale is breaking down. And while you're doing that, you're seriously reducing people's rights of accessories, pensions, you're seriously reducing them. So why are you doing this? There's only one reason you're doing this, because you've made the arrangement for privates and privates in another law, you're not aware of the other law. Now, you turn around, you do what you have to do to make it right again. Friends, here in this House, these laws are unnecessary... so what's right to discuss a 12-point law as a fundamental law? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I'd like to say that I'd like to move on to my speech on the department. First, I wish God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed in the terrorist attacks of Şırnak and Silvio, and patience on our fallen families, and patience on our nation. Now, in this proposal, you're making some adjustments to the rights of the people who work heavily in training, who work heavily in the Armed Forces again. In this case, you also employ 12,500 teachers for the Ministry of National Education. Of course, it's important for teachers who are waiting for the assignment, but it's not enough. We still have over 300,000 unappointed teachers waiting to meet their students. Dear lawmakers, national education is a matter above all parties, for which it has a national title. What did the AKP, which has been in power for thirteen years, do for this national issue? Looking back, the highest minister in 13 years has aged the Ministry of National Education. You've changed five Minister of Education in thirteen years. On average, every two-and-a-half years, the Minister of National Education has gone, and with each minister, our education system has changed. After all, our hope has turned into test subjects. AKP staffs have constantly operated on our children with ideological shackles in their minds. We'll live with the consequences, not just today, but in the future. Just a few days ago, the president confessed that he had not achieved any success in education and culture. It seems it's only a matter of time before the current Minister changes. Dear MPs, our world is changing at a dizzy pace. The critical content that drives this is the information itself. Knowing in a global race means mastering. So, with this educational system, can Turkey get into the class of nations producing information? Look, in the past few weeks, 2015, the United Nations Human Development Report has been published. According to the report, our citizens will remain in Turkey for 7.6 years. I mean, it's not even eight years. At this level of education, we are ranked 113 degrees [188 countries]. There are 112 countries in the world that have more education than we do. In this case, how do we get into the first 20 percent of the race for human development? Again, when we look at the expected schooling rate, the number of years of education a child will be in, our country will be 56 percent in 188 countries. Here 55 countries have outdone us. There's a lot of quality problems in our education system. The PISA test results from the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency at specific intervals are evident. Our children are third in science and mathematics, compared to the children of other countries, who have 34 member states, and fourth in the final and fourth in understanding that they are studying. As a result, all international comparisons show that we can't train our population enough, and we can't give quality education to those we can train. If Turkey is caught in a mediocrity trap in all areas today, we will look for reasons for it here. Look, our income level is mediocre in Turkey. The income per person has been skating for the last seven years, and now it's starting to slip back. Fert's income on his head was caught in a $10,000 trap, and this year it's down to $9.079 under $10,000. According to government estimates in the mid-term programme, the per capita income will not see $10,000, not even in 2018. This is not a good administration, my friends. That's not good management. It doesn't make us happy. In our country, we want each citizen's vaccine to increase his work in a stable, orderly way. We do politics for that purpose. Dear lawmakers, it's not just our income level, it's the technology content of the products we produce and sell. I'm sharing with you the most recent figures. In the first ten months of this year, our production industry exports only have 3.5 percent of high-tech products. However, in our production industry exports, the share of medium-tech products is 61.8%. How are we going to compete with the world with such production and trade structures? How do we close the scissors between us and the developed countries, dear friends? It's not closing. Look, let's split a number with you again. If we accept the income of the United States of America for 100, Turkey's income per cent was $18 in 1980. So when America was 100, ours was $18. Thirty-five years have passed, and in 2015 this $18.17 has fallen. In the last 35 years, however, the income per capita in South Korea has risen from $14 to $49 in the same period, according to the United States of America -- the same period as us. South Korea, which started behind us, has now reached half the income of the United States of America. Turkey has been in place for 35 years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a very important opportunity to get out of this mediocrity trap. This opportunity is also called a window of demographic opportunity. The working population in Turkey will grow faster over the next 20 years, according to the population in which it is unable to work. If we miss this window of opportunity, it'll be very, very difficult to get out of Turkey's mediocre trap again. What are we gonna do to not miss it? We'll train our young people well. We're going to offer our young people the opportunity to do quality work. So we need to know about education, about a country, about a national issue, and break the ideological shackles of the minds. We need to train our children better than their peers in the world, raise them as open individuals to the world. The fact that there will be no good education without good instructors is also important to our teachers' education. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is all very important matters, but there is one more important and urgent matter. Education is not available in a part of Turkey today. Terrorists are burning down our schools, taking away our children's right to education. The heavier it is, the right to live is being taken away from our people. Once upon a time, I remember politicians who kept their hemlock from their platforms. It's not the politicians, but now the people themselves are drinking their hemlock to death. We can avoid the responsibility of our actions, but we cannot avoid the consequences. Today, people pay with their lives for the irresponsibility of the AKP, which tolerates the massing of these weapons to cities. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, everyone sitting in Turkey's Grand National Assembly will bear the seriousness of representing this nation. Yes, representing this nation is a serious business, but if there's a more serious task than representation, it's to protect the rights and the law of the nation. As I finish my words, I wish to celebrate the new year of our nation and all of you, 2016 to bring peace to our country, our region and the world.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0218par0211	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. The first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Isaac Gazel, MP of Kütahya. Here you are, Mr. Gazel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0219par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the first part of the First Amendment to the Law and Law Act. The General Assembly, I salute your grand delegation with love and respect. This week is the anniversary of the death of Mr. Mehmet Akif Ersoy. It is the State of this nation's long-term prayer that we are dedicated to our heroic army. In the hope of receiving the government's blessing, I call upon Mehmet Akif Ersoy, our poet of the Istiklal anthem, again with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude; may God have mercy on him. Very valuable MPs, you know, before the November 1st elections, we issued an election declaration as an EC PARTI, and we went up against the public with this election statement. Our election declaration was a comprehensive election declaration that concerned every part of the community, concerned every seven to 70, concerned the child, the old, the young, the old, the old, the old, and the interested in all parts of the community and concerned every professional group. Of course, this election declaration found makeup in the hearts of the nation, and the AK PARTY came to power alone with 49.5 per cent of the vote in the November 1st election. Now we're fulfilling our commitments in this election statement one by one. For this reason, the legal arrangement has been issued, and we have carried out those regulations in matters that do not require legal regulation, which require different regulations, and by working very hard, hopefully, with the good news of our Prime Minister, in three months before the election, we will fulfill all the promises we made, all the promises we made, all the promises we made. Over the past week, as you know, as a result of our late-night work, our pensions, BUG-KUR and SGK pensions, which amounted to 1,200 lira a year, 100 lira a month, were again, one of our pre-election commitments, received last week. So, today, in row 12, this Law Proposal that we're discussing is actually one of the pre-election commitments we made. Although it was not in the election announcement, Mr. Prime Minister had announced to our nation that some of the issues held here as the news of Republic Day at the Malatya rally were good news. Among these are regulations concerning the increased allowances of our military students who served in Cyprus; in military school, in auxiliary officers' school, in Petty Officers' school, and in Petty Officers' universities. In a moment, hopefully, it will be accepted. Our privates' allowances start at $30, hopefully up to $100, and the other students' allowances between $40 and $200 will go up to $350, $400. Likewise, prior to the November 1st elections, the demands of our citizens, especially Petty Officers' pensioners, were delivered to our party about the office, the severance package and the initiative. Our Prime Minister, again, said he knew the problem at the Malatya rally, knew the demands. With today's arrangement, there will also be pension reviews, which have been able to make up the difference between graduations before and after 2003. I repeat here: we always say that the AK PARTY fulfills all of its promises and doesn't promise anything it won't do. On this occasion, we send our greetings and our regards to all of our soldiers, our brave Mehmet-duk, our hero Mehmet-duk. Again, we ask God's mercy for our heroic soldiers who are martyrs in the fight against terrorism, and we welcome their families. This is where we reveal that we feel their pain in the deepest part of our heart. No one will take this country's unity and unity, this unity and unity that we've made with our army. We've been living in this land as brothers for a thousand years, in a brotherhood law. No one will be able to intervene in the brotherhood of Yavuz Sultan Selim and İdrisi Bitlisi (Idrisi Bitlisi), created by Selahattin Ayyubi and Nureddin Mahmud Zengi. Because AK PARTY is a guarantee of the unity and unity of this nation. The universal brotherhood of Turks and Kurds guarantees the universal brotherhood of Alevis and Sunnis. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish us all the best in 2016, my love, respect, and conversation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0220par0229	Mr. Gazel, thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0221par0230	Mr. President, this is universal human rights, what's it like as a universal brotherhood?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0220par0231	The second and final speaker on behalf of individuals on the first chapter is Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0234	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, when we spoke earlier, we said that the basic issues of Turkey were not discussed here, and that the parliamentary agenda was constantly occupied over palliative solutions. Now, this, especially in the first articles, has some arrangements for contractors and privates, some regulations that concern the military, but none of them will solve the basic military issue in Turkey. We, the People's Democratic Party, have a principled stance on this issue; we argue that mandatory military service must be lifted in Turkey, that the right to conscientious rejection must be recognised to all citizens, and that the obligation can be fulfilled through public service. Therefore, it is not important for privates and privates to raise their allowance from 30 TL to 100 TL, but for those privates and privates to have the right to conscientious rejection, and it is the real solution. Development that is good for the country's economy can also be sought there. Each of you can predict the economic relief of the country's economy when a soldier's month's cost to the country is more than a thousand TL, which is just the right to conscientious rejection. Of course, the last time I was on this stand, I tried to explain the situation a little bit by saying, "I hope the Secretary of State is here." He's probably not here today, but I'm sure he's watching us, and I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, Cizre, Sur, Dargeçit, the people of Silopi, the people's taxes, the people's salary, the people's equipment, the weapons you've acquired, and by what authority would you send an army there to bomb the people of Cizre, Silopi, Nusaybin? Who gave you that right? It is in no way acceptable for the people of this nation to be surrounded by taxes, by public blockades, tank shootings, cannons, armored vehicles to intervene, to destroy settlements and cities. You don't have to give us any different reasons here, each of you knows what's going on in the area. There's no district called Sur, Cizre, Silopi is in ruins.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0223par0238	Why?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0239	You know very well why.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0223par0240	Terrorist organization, terrorist organization.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0241	You know very well that the reason is because of your unlawful conduct.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0223par0242	On the contrary, the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0243	Look, the chief of staff of this country just two months ago made a statement that it is not right to send tanks to the settlement areas. Now, what's the deal with that general general's statement that the tanks are bombing the city centers?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0224par0244	It's for those who have left the settlement. Where are they hiding? They're taking refuge in the security forces.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0225par0245	Are you leaving your own house?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0246	There's pressure here from the government on the army, but there's also a huge trap for the army.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0224par0247	Where are they hiding?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0226par0248	Congressmans, please do not interfere with the Hati.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0249	Look, the military authorities are here, I'll tell you. When the next day returns, when a different decision is made, then they will seek a sacrifice to bind all those sins to their necks. Didn't they do the same thing when the Russian plane went down? They went out first, we gave the order, and they said we'd do it again. Then, when the heavy bill came, they suddenly turned around, and they didn't know their nationality. They went through the blah, blah, blah, and blamed the last crime on the pilot.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0227par0250	Diversion, deflection. You're deflecting, don't deflect.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0251	The day after tomorrow, when the process came to a different point, we didn't tell the soldier to come in and destroy all the cities.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0227par0252	Don't deflect.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0222par0253	That is why it is unacceptable to do such a thing. I told you the other day, when a Silopian soldier turns on the television while he's serving in Ağrı, what will he feel when he sees his own mother's house being destroyed by the institution of which his father's furnace is now owned? As a matter of fact, all of these are real examples. Therefore, there is a basic need to conduct arguments here, to consume some of the basic arguments. We advocate the removal of mandatory military service. People who want to, who love military service, of course they can be soldiers, they can do it professionally, they can go to the front... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but we will never allow you to send the children of poor Anatolian workers and peasants to their deaths for their ruling accounts. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0228par0259	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0229par0260	Don't deflect, don't deflect, don't deflect, Mr. Idris.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0228par0261	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the question-answer procedure for 15 minutes on the first part of the proposal. I give you my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system in a row. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0230par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our esteemed Minister of National Education: Mr. Secretary, we've reached the end of December, the problems of children who have been forced to sign up for imam-gathering schools have not been resolved. Family is either imposed on open high school or imam-gap high school. We respect the families who willingly send their children to imam-gap high school. You need to show the same respect to families who don't want to send their kids to imam-gap high schools. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. I'll give an example to your office tomorrow, Mr. Secretary, but I need to hear the cries of all the families. We've spoken to you before before that it's not right to have forced religious education, and you said you would agree. I'd appreciate it if you could give me a hand with this. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0231par0267	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0232par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in Sultanbeyli district of Istanbul, our citizens have a deed problem, a zoning problem; there are thinners and drugs around the school that enter your area. In our Sultanbeyli district, around the school, especially our students don't have safety because of these thinners and drugs. And since Sultanbeyli district has been established in the region, of course, there have been the same mayors from the previous -- other political parties that you've inherited from the AKP until now -- but I'm afraid our citizen's property problem, the zoning problem, especially the parking problem, the problem of our citizens not finding a van going to the state hospital after 11:00 p.m. How will you find a solution to these problems of Sultan Beyli? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0233par0271	Mr. Kusoglu? No. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0234par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. In relation to the rent of our seas, especially waterworks and public water, marine meadows and species that are heavily found in our seas and in them are exhausted because of the excess pollution of fish farms, and, depending on that, life in the seas is destroyed by coastal fishing. Likewise, because of fish farms, coastal fishing is being destroyed because of antibiotics, parasite medicines, fish droppings, food waste, dead fish, and waste such as diesel, bilge water. And in this law, a decision will be made to rehir it. We're asking the Ministry if they have any work on it. They're going to kill coastal fishing, especially first-class natural sites that are about to disappear. I wonder when they're going to call this culture fishing "for a while."
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0233par0275	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0235par0276	Mr. Minister, we have received a statement from the Ankara Governorate today -- a governor's decision not to celebrate Christmas in elementary schools because of New Year's Day. Do you know about this decision? Do you agree with that decision? Do you have an opinion on the basic purpose of this decision in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0233par0278	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0236par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the village schools that have been shut down. There were 129 village schools in the district of Tarsus, my constituency alone, and now 84 of them are closed. Many of these closed village schools are also thrown out and empty. There are applications for our municipalities for the construction of social facilities, such as village chiefship, village room, library, and doctor's room, where these village schools are located. We're hoping you can help us with that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0237par0282	Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0238par0283	Mr. President, thank you. I'm asking our Minister: In many provinces of Turkey, classrooms have been shut down in its district and a step towards schooling. As many of our friends have seen, the school buildings without a balcony are in school. Students spend their lives like this on sidewalks, roads, recesses. Do you have a standard for schooling that can be followed by modern education? Yes, but we want to know how much it will contribute to the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0239par0286	Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0240par0287	I'd like to ask the Minister. Most of the schools in Amed, Diyarbakır, and Kurdistan have been converted into headquarters. It's written on the school boards: "The school boards have arrived. " Have you done any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0241par0289	Are these newly appointed teachers?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0242par0290	On behalf of the government, I promise Mr. Nabi Avcı, Minister of National Education, to answer questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0243par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, let me try to answer from the end. At the schools in Diyarbakir, we do not have schools that are currently uneducated in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0244par0295	What do you mean, no? Let's name names, Suleiman Nazif...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0245par0296	Yavuz Sultan Selim...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0243par0297	But other than that, it's temporary...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0245par0298	You don't know.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0243par0299	...because of very special circumstances, the governor's office continues training when the normal thing happens there, when life starts to flow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0246par0300	Cizre, Silopi, that's what I mean.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0243par0301	Many of our schools are being burned, destroyed or harassed by a terrorist organization. We're trying to take precautions out there, and we'll keep taking them.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0246par0302	As headquarters...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0247par0303	Not at all! It's used as a headquarters.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0248par0304	It's used as a police station.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0249par0305	No, safety measures are being taken, safety measures are in our schools, and what you think is a police station are probably safety-delayed schools because they're attacking our schools. When there are threats against our schools, our students, our teachers, our parents, our education workers by the terrorist organization, our security forces intervene.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0248par0306	Not at all!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0250par0307	There's writing on the boards.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0251par0308	Mr. Secretary, that's not the question we asked.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0309	As for the problem with the classrooms: In this transformation process, during the transformation of classrooms into private schools, we specifically created the basic high school category as a transition institution, but we allowed them to only open with this commitment, provided they meet the standards sought in other private schools within a four-year period. In accordance with this commitment, we've loosened some of the standards we've been looking for in basic high schools for four years, and that's in the law. Now, as you say, in some of our basic high schools, we can't meet the standards we see in other private high schools, we know that, but we've already predicted that with regulations, but there's a standard, a minimum. If there are applications beyond this minimum, then we're doing what's necessary, but it's true that we've reduced the standards a little for four years for basic high schools.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0253par0311	Mr. Secretary, the circumstances are not good, so I don't want to be audited...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0312	They don't have the standards we're looking for in our normal high schools, our normal private schools. Like I said, we know that, we already predicted that. Since these are temporary conversion institutions, in four years... In fact, some of them are moving to their building, which is not waiting for the four-year deadline given to them -- in the meantime, if they don't meet those standards within four years, they'll be revoked, and they'll have it in their pledges. The question of the allocation of village schools in Mersin is: Yes, this is not just about Mersin. We have schools that we've shut down a lot of our village schools because of the demographic in many places, because there aren't enough students there. We're assigning their buildings to the chiefs to be used under normal circumstances for the social needs of the village, but...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0254par0315	Since it's the Metropolitan Law...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0316	Here, uh, that's what I'm gonna say. Because of the Metropolitan Law, we have a similar problem in Eskişehir. Because of the Metropolitan Law, it's a neighborhood, so we can't allocate it because it doesn't have a corporate personality. We're trying to find a way to get through it somehow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0254par0317	On condition that at least...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0318	Yeah, like you said, we're looking for a way to allocate these places to the neighborhoods, to the ground, just like we've been doing for a certain period of time with a protocol, to some NGOs, or to some foundation. This is the first time I've heard that Ankara Governor forbids Christmas celebrations in our schools, so I'm going to look into it. I don't know what purpose, how, in what context, I don't know... I don't know if it's a warning... that recent events have occurred on the basis of martyr funerals, that's the first explanation that came to my mind... that there should be such an extreme Christmas party or something like that. Let me find out, in his opinion... if there's no reasonable reason... I don't think so, as a result, such an arrangement of the Ankara Governor's office... since I don't know the scope of the arrangement, I can explain it now. I'll take care of him. Regarding the fact that these sea farms and cultural fishing kill coastal fishing: In order for water products to grow environmentally, businesses that will grow in our seas are obliged to set up at least 1,100 metres offshore, at least 30 metres deep. Culture fishing is one of the main sources of production around the world. These businesses are controlled and monitored in every way. I mean, it's a measure of response to the threat to coastal fishing that he has to be at least 1,100 meters out here and have to be at least 30 meters deep. Sultan Beyli... you've asked me this before, if I remember correctly, Mr. Tanal. About the Sultanbeyli municipality...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0255par0322	That was about the toilets, sir. With their handicapped toilets...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0323	I'll let you know again what the Sultanbeyli Mayor's answer is. There's been a misunderstanding here, I understand. There's no mandatory record because the way we started on our high school records last year, the way we applied this year is that students make 25 school preferences, 25 school preferences, the students who are not part of these school preferences, the students who haven't settled in any of their 25 preferences, are in open high school; we don't take imam-hats because imam-hats also get students based on a certain score. Therefore, it is not possible for a student to register at any imam-gap school unless he has 25 preferences, nor is it possible for him to register at any technical or vocational high school, nor is it possible for him to register at Anadolu High School. We're taking our student who can't get into one of his 25 preferences, and we're telling them now that if there's a quota in other schools -- other schools, Anadolu high schools, science high schools, social sciences, imam-seekers, vocational and technical high schools -- you're looking at them, you're looking at them -- you're an open high school student, but at that point -- in any of them, you're allowed to go and register in a school type of school that you might prefer. Otherwise, no student -- not just an imam-haki -- is registered to a school he doesn't want. It's registered in open high school because they're, like, on hold, and if he wants to go on to open high school, it's going on.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0325	Mr. Secretary, there's a serious number of students going to open high school.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0326	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0327	But they don't want to go to open high school.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0328	He doesn't want to, but...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0329	They have to sign up for imam-hatress.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0330	No, he doesn't have to, he can go to vocational school.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0331	Sir, why would I...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0332	If there's a quota, if there's an open quota, if the score is right for it, he can also go to Anadolu High School. We'll take it by point. In some places...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0333	Mr. Secretary, student families are forced to choose the imam-pat. I'll get a sample tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0334	Look, I'll give you an example from Ankara. Ankara also has the Imam Hatip High School. Many students want to go there, much above the quota, 5 or 6 times more, but because their score is not enough, they are either registered at another Anatolian high school or at a vocational school.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0335	I'll get a sample tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0336	So there's no such thing as forced entry into imam-members. If the student wants to continue teaching, he is registering at a knitting institution with a quota that he has enough points for.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0337	I'll get you an example tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0252par0338	No, it's not forced, but it might be: I registered here, but in fact, if I could score, I'd go somewhere else.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0257par0339	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0256par0340	I'll bring a sample tomorrow, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0257par0341	Madam Secretary, thank you. Time's up. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment to the 12th amendment to the 12th amendment of the current Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Tulip Article 2 of 1-23/02/61 and Article 257 of the Law on Private and Private Harms have been changed in the following way. ==Early life==From the time when Erbaş and privates entered the military service, they were considered insured according to the first article (a) of Articles 31,05,2006 and Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act 5510. For those within this scope, the provisions of the 5510 Numbers Law do not apply to the short-term insurance arm. The insurance premiums, which will be calculated on minimum wage for privates who are considered insured, are covered by the grant to the central management budget. (2) According to the first joke, sergeants (4250), corporals (4100) and privates will be paid monthly allowance in the amount that the number of indicators (400) will be multiplied by the coefficient of government officials to calculate their monthly allowances in the month when the allowance will be paid. (3) According to the second joke, allowances are applied twice as often to members of the military and privates in the units identified by the General Staff. (4) Private and private allowances, calculated according to this clause, are not subject to any interruptions, except for a stamp tax. (5) According to the first joke of Article 50 of the unemployment insurance Act No.99 and Article 4447, unemployment allowance is paid to the unemployed who have personally applied for a new job and are ready to receive a new job from those who have completed military service, without a search for the terms for their work and bonus payments in the second joke, as of six months from the date of the military service. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 1 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Open Erkan Akçay Erkan Haberal Mind Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Article 2 of the 2nd Amendment of the 1-23/2/1961th and Private and Private Laws Act 257 has been changed in the following way. The total monthly income of his family, 2 - a, is paid monthly allowance, due to the monthly coefficient determined by Article 657 of State Officers' Law, which is less than or less than 16 years old, is specified at the level below. B) The family's total monthly income is paid monthly allowance, which is between the minimum wage for people over 16 and the monthly salary of the lowest government official, as well as the number of indicators shown at the following levels, due to the monthly coefficient determined by Article 154 of the State Officers' Law. C) At their request, other privates and privates will be paid monthly allowances for the number shown at their level below, as a result of the monthly coefficient determined by Article 657 under Article 154 of State Officers' Law. In the first and second-degree development, soldiers and privates in the first and second-degree units identified by the Chief of Staff are given twice the amount of allowance to be accounted for according to the basics mentioned in the first joke. e) In case the allowances are cross-referencing, the sums of the payments will be charged with taka (1Turkish lira). F) All needs are provided by the Ministry of National Education, the needs of children who attend schools in the Ministry of National Education of privates and privates who are married. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 12th Amendment be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Sibel Yiğitalp Mithat Sancar Ayhan Bilgen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0258par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0257par0394	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0259par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0257par0396	Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0260par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're not comfortable with this Assembly spending a big shift when the invasion armies arrive in Istanbul, which is busy with the details, but facing the danger of the country. Of course, what bothers us about this law is not the improvements to the rights of the essence, but we are facing a much more serious situation, a much more serious danger. At the end of the 1990s, in the early 2000s, he did something with a very high sense, with a common mind; he predicted that the maps of countries that did not democratize their regimes in the Middle East would change, and he signed an arrangement that would facilitate the removal of the death penalty, just as today. In all this time, we know that the Armed Forces are planning to go into digital decline, especially in the land and the gendarmes, and that they are committed to certain commitments due to the pacts in which they are involved, but unfortunately, in recent years, what even the security and intelligence bureaucracy has seen is being handled with economic, social dimensions, and the hope for a solution to the political institution has not been properly assessed by politicians, and this opportunity is about to be missed by us. We hope that no one there will have to pay the price, the price, the bill, the children, the women, the soldiers, the police, the Kurds, the young people that we can't solve. Today, unfortunately, the problem can't be solved on political grounds, so we're re-substituting throats, re-murders, and maybe three years later, we're looking back five years and we're looking back at the scenes that we're ashamed of. So, of course, there's a very important dimension to debate about the rights, but I think the main expectation of soldiers, police or security units in this process is to avoid being driven into such a conflict environment and to expect to be discussed on the political floor, on the parliamentary floor, on the civil society floor, to be discussed and discussed. It's a very human response, and unfortunately, if we delay this further, if the political institution avoids taking any more risks, taking any responsibility, and the problem is brought up through violence, through conflict, in the shadow of guns, then we'll soon be dragged to a point where there's no going back. Although many of our friends here insist on describing the issue as terror, at least those who know about these issues, those who think about these issues, even military literature, are now in the process of pro-war rioting. If we don't want the cost of this to go any further on this country, if we want to develop a solution without losing any more of our people, I think we have to really talk about it. I saw Mr. Secretary's speech on TV yesterday. He made an interesting assessment of the schools, and he said: "We will not make the decision on when the schools will be opened centrally. In fact, what we call self-management is what we call autonomy; talking about the people who know the best about their situation is that they live there. Look, a very small example is that the chief physician has changed three times a year in Kars. Why has it changed three times? Because the decision from here has changed because of our ambition to use the initiative. If we have a sense of trust that the schools there should not only be opened and opened, but if we have the needs of the schools, what language they need to be trained in, or some other agendas the locals give us, if we know how to transfer power, I think we can solve this problem before we strangle each other. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0261par0408	Depends on what you mean by the transfer of authority.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0262par0409	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Now, I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0263par0411	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0262par0412	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor of the motion... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 1 of the Law Proposal be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 2 of the 1-23/2/1961th and Private and Privates Act 257 has been changed in the following way. " Article 2 (a) The family's total monthly income is paid monthly allowance, which is equal to the minimum wage set for those over 16 years or lower than that fee, by the monthly coefficient determined by Article 657 of State Officers Act 154. B) The family's total monthly income is paid monthly allowance, which is between the minimum wage for people over 16 and the monthly salary of the lowest civil servant, as well as the number of indicators shown at the level below, due to the monthly coefficient determined by Article 657 under Article 154 of the State Officer's Law. C) At their request, other privates and privates will be paid monthly allowances for the number shown at their level below, as a result of the monthly coefficient determined by Article 657 under Article 154 of State Officers' Law. In the first and second-degree development, soldiers and privates in the first and second-degree units identified by the Chief of Staff are given twice the amount of allowance to be accounted for according to the basics mentioned in the first joke. e) In case the allowances are cross-referencing, the sums of the payments will be charged with taka (1Turkish lira). " The National Ministry of Education provides all the needs for children who attend schools in the Ministry of National Education for privates and privates who are married. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0264par0438	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0262par0439	Government?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0265par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0262par0441	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0266par0445	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. Dear MPs, this great Parliament is a Parliament that has tried to meet the needs of its army, along with the fewest opportunities in the Battle of Salvation, in Sakarya, and the Turkish nation is such a nation. During the Battle of Sakarya, all lawmakers, in solidarity and cooperation among themselves, sent the tobacco needs of the soldiers on the Sakaryan fronts from Parliament, Ankara. The Turkish nation has a sense of the military nation, and ever since our history, our deep cultural codes have been highly military and have been referred to as a national duty in the Turkish military nation. Beyond being a legal obligation, a duty to a homeland, as it is a defense of a country, it is also a profession, a custom, which is done willingly and by heart and by tradition. In fact, the arrangement in this article 1 should be evaluated in this framework. And we, the National Movement Party, are looking at it from this frame. Dear friends, according to current legislation, privates are paid 27 lira a month, corporals are paid $31 a month, sergeants are paid a ridiculous allowance of $36 a month. Now, this arrangement will raise this $36. 104 to $31.92, and $27 to 81. While seeing this arrangement as positive, I would like to say that we find it extremely inadequate. Because the majority of our young men, especially those who serve in the rank of private, private, and sergeant, are rural children, and when they go into the army, they are separated from working life and production, and many of them provide for or contribute to their family's livelihood. Of course, when military service begins, his parents can't send an allowance to his kid, and the family struggling to survive under difficult circumstances, and while the failure to send that allowance, our soldiers are constantly thinking about their family. Many of these families are poor. His family, his wife, and his child soon become depressed, and many soldiers become depressed. The behavior of a disturbed soldier within the barracks can also be corrupted, with problems in the attitude and behavior of both his friends and his superior relationships, with escape incidents increasing, even suicide incidents. Today, military prisons are heavily occupied, and the vast majority of those soldiers in these military prisons are there for the reasons I just mentioned. In the 24th term, we offered a law to increase these allowances, taking into account the income of the families. We proposed this law. We don't know if it's Tevafuk, coincidence manager, but about two weeks after we proposed this law, then Prime Minister Erdogan, at the AKP group meeting on 16 April 2013, stated that 250 lira would be given regular aid to these families. Now, 32 months later, as we have proposed, the offer to increase private and private allowances. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We accept this, but we offer to further increase in our motion, and with the consent of our motion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0267par0452	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment to the 12th amendment to the 12th amendment of the current Law Proposal shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Cemal Okan Yüksel (Eskişehir) and his friends Article 2 of 1-23/02/61 and Article 257 of the Law on Private and Private Harms have been changed in the following way. ==Early life==From the time when Erbaş and privates entered the military service, they were considered insured according to the first joke (a) in Article 4 of Social Insurance Act 31,05,2006 and 5510 and Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act. For those within this scope, the provisions of Act 5510 concerning the short-term insurance arm do not apply. In this way, the insurance premiums for privates and privates, which are considered insured, are covered by the allowance for the central management budget. (2) According to the first joke, sergeants (4250), corporals (4100) and privates will be paid monthly allowance in the amount that the number of indicators (400) will be multiplied by the coefficient of government officials to calculate their monthly allowances in the month when the allowance will be paid. (3) According to the second joke, allowances are applied twice as often to members of the military and privates in the units identified by the General Staff. (4) Private and private allowances, calculated according to this clause, are not subject to any interruptions, except for a stamp tax. (5) According to the first joke of Article 50 of the unemployment insurance Act No.99 and Article 4447, unemployment allowance is paid for six months from the time of the military service's completion, regardless of the conditions for the work and premium payments of the second joke. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0268par0466	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0267par0467	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0269par0468	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0267par0469	Eskişehir MP Cemal Okan Yüksel has asked about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0473	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to replace Article 2 of Private and Private Enforcements Act 257. The amendment to the 12th amendment to the 12th amendment to the Charter and Budget Commission shall determine the allowances of sergeants, privates and privates for about 90 lira, and will bring no change. In our proposal, there are four very important changes in the favor of these young people: First of all, it's about the allowance. At our suggestion, the sergeant's allowances are up to $354, as well as privates, privates, and privates' allowances are raised to about $340. If the proposal of the law becomes legal as it comes from the commission, or the AKP-led orator here, we're doing a huge increase. If it becomes legal with its rhetoric, it's for those of us who have an allowance of about $3 a day today. So you're going to put $3 a day in the pockets of our fellow patriots. However, starting January 1st -- I'm telling you in truth -- your neutral president will receive a salary of $32,000.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0271par0476	What's that got to do Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0477	Mehmetçik, who serves as a patriot, will receive $3 a day, and the President will receive $32,000 a day. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a sin. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0271par0478	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0272par0479	There's no telling what logic you've made between this and that you've dragged the President into the procedural debate.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0480	So, what do you do for $3? Nurettin Bey, you applaud, you like it. Look what you can do for $3.00. For example, you buy gum for $3. You get a bagel for $3, you get 3 bottles of water for $3, but you can't live. Mehmetchik can't go to his mother's home to his father because he doesn't have any money on his days off, but if you accept our proposal, at least our Mehmetchik can pay for the road to his hometown. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The second amendment is: Mehmetçikler, who serves in areas affected by terrorism, will benefit twice as much from the increase in allowances we offer. That's a requirement of justice, Mr. Lawmakers. Our third amendment is that Mehmetchik who performs his Vatanite duties should be insured. Some of our young people who perform a sacred mission, such as homeland service, have to leave their jobs and go to the army without finding work. Although the time in the military is free of charge, it is a patriotic service that cannot be measured by money, it is of course a need for social justice and responsibility to pay the insurance premiums of our young people by the state. And finally, it's our suggestion that our discharged youth take advantage of unemployment insurance. Dear lawmakers, is it moral, moral, or just, to give 3 lira a day to our Mehmetchik, who watches the border in the middle of the night for our safety, while you lie in our warm beds in your homes? I'm asking: how is it fair to see poor people's children worth $3 a day when someone's kids are zeroing out millions of euros?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0273par0489	Know your place, know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0490	I'm asking: How conscientious is it to say that someone is wearing a $750,000 watch, and the poor are going to get $3?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0274par0491	How much is a handkerchief, a handkerchief?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0492	I'm asking: How moral is the $3 you see worthy of Mehmetchik, when someone is counting money with the counting machines?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0275par0493	Get over it, get over it. They were discussed last week.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0494	Someone's kids are in a warm bed with seven crates on their head, and Mehmetchik is on watch while he sleeps with the cash register.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0276par0496	Tell me what you're gonna do.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0497	Don't, don't. And to you, are those who stand before Reza to be appreciated, and those who are martyred, and those who fall into the land of their homeland?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0277par0498	Yeah, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0499	Answer me this.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0278par0501	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0502	We have not forgotten what you used to do.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0279par0503	People know, people know who's doing what.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0504	Look at the way you look at Mehmet. Your president... the fact that you call the baby killer Mehmet-duk-duh, the fallen Mehmet-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh, Mehmet-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0280par0506	What's that got to do with it? What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0507	We haven't forgotten that you've already joined hands with parallel structures and sent the generals of the Turkish army to the dungeons.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0281par0508	You've been talking for five minutes, you're not telling me what to do!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0270par0509	Come, make one tenth of the effort you have made to prevent the trial of the four former ministers, support our proposal, and at least sleep comfortably in your bed tonight.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0282par0511	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0283par0512	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the laws of higher education and the amendments of some Laws and Laws be changed in accordance with the laws referred to in the 2nd article of the Law Proposal shall be replaced and replaced in the form of ▪2.3,3,3,750. Erkan Haberal Mind Open Erkan Akçay Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 2 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Akın Ustüdağ The Turkish Military Union (MADDE 2) dated 14/7/1964 and will be sent to Cyprus no. 500 has been written in the third joke of the 1st Article of the Law on the Monthly and Other Expenses of the Monthly and Rewards of the Mensup of the Turkish Military Union (Turkish Union) and on the third article of the Union. Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Proposal 12 be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Burcu Çelik Özkan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0284par0539	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0283par0540	Government?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0285par0541	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0283par0542	We're going to talk about the motion...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0286par0543	Age, Ironel.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0283par0544	Çağlar Demirel, Diyarbakır MP. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0287par0547	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, yes, we think that this problem with Cyprus... should be removed from the text of the law of Article 2 because it cannot be solved by improving the monthly wages of the military or the men who work there. We want to express that we think that the Cypriot people should decide how they want to govern themselves. We've just expressed that, and we need to address these warm developments in Parliament, where, at the General Assembly, we need to address them and develop solution proposals for them. What we're saying here, especially in the war concept, is that we're saying that soldiers are using schools as headquarters, Mr. Secretary, but I'd like to show you a few photos here. So I'd like to read this photo in particular: who is JÖH? We're asking. We're here to study. This is a visual phenomenon written in the schools in Tyre, and we want to express it specifically. We're asking, who is JAH, the newly appointed teachers? Are the newly appointed teachers at that school expressing themselves as JSH? As you can see, soldiers use the necessary areas of education as outposts. We can also tell you which schools are one by one. It's our turn to train. WHO are these, we want to ask the General Assembly, and we want to ask the Minister: Are these the newly appointed teachers? Is this how your new 12,500 teachers will be appointed? Education is continuing. You said. I count only schools in Sur district of Diyarbakır province: one of these schools is Süleyman Nazif Elementary, Yavuz Selim, Alpaslan Elementary. They're all used as headquarters. All the photos explain that the cops, the soldiers, the Special Ops, used it as a headquarters by tearing down walls, leaving sandbags there. But other than that, education continues in Sur. You say. There is only a curfew in six neighborhoods, but the majority of Tyre is under blockade. The Ziya Gökalp Elementary School in the area without curfew does not provide education and training. In Sur district, where curfew has been declared for a month, no child has been able to attend school, and no teacher has been able to serve there. ▪ How do these teachers study, and how do these students continue to teach regularly? Hakeza, Melik Ahmet High School, there's no curfew, but it's under blockade. Students, teachers can't use school there. And once again, we're going to take 12,500 teachers in terms of education and teaching. I'd like to put it this way: during the period before the AKP came to power in 2002...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0288par0551	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0287par0552	...then Prime Minister Erdogan said in a speech he made in Gaziantep: "When we come to power, there will be no unsupervised teachers left. " From that period to 2013, a teacher in Gaziantep says that he is not appointed and that he will not vote because he is not appointed, and that he will vote if he is appointed in February. The answer is, "Take the game and go." How do we solve these problems, how do we solve these problems, the unsupervised teacher problem? Right now, the government has given you 120 dollars, and you're saying that you're going to appoint 12,500 teachers. But the union's bid is 150. How are you going to solve this problem unless you can appoint 150,000 teachers? So many teachers are waiting to be appointed. He has to commit suicide today because there is no appointment for teachers waiting to be appointed and receiving his diploma. Teachers who are not assigned today have to work their diplomas in other jobs in their pockets. How will you resolve the problems of education? And at the same time, in schools, I want to express that both education and appointments are not appropriate, and once again, from here, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0289par0556	Thank you, Mr. Age.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0290par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0289par0558	I promise, Mr. Bostanci. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0291par0560	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0289par0561	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0292par0564	May I make a statement, sir?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0289par0565	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0292par0568	Mr. President, thank you. A few moments ago, the valuable speaker showed some photographs of Special Ops officers inside the schools from the podium. That's right, there are photos like this. In some of our counties, unfortunately, the terrorist organization is doing its best to dominate certain areas behind the barricades and to make the lives of the people there a poison. Because he sees places like schools and hospitals as institutions of the state, he's under attack here. I'm sure the precious speaker has seen countless pictures of the schools burned down from the newspapers, television, and hospitals.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0293par0571	President, we live there, not the paper, so...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0292par0572	And if he didn't, I'd like to remind him.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0294par0573	We're there, we're there. We don't see it in the papers.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0295par0574	That's where we live. Come and have a look.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0292par0575	It's the government's job to free such institutions from the hands of the terrorist organization and ultimately restore them to its original function. It is the state's moral duty to defend everyone's right to education in Turkey and to take the necessary measures for that, which the state does, and it always does. I also want to remind you that the terrorist organization has been hostile to educational educational institutions ever since, and it employs a variety of propaganda methods so that children don't go to schools, it is hostile to the school. It also does so in an ideological perspective, within the framework of its ideological stance. So you need to know that what happened there is accurate, consistent reading, that the burning, destroyed, terror organization is trying to remember its atrocities, its persecutions, and in this framework, the government's efforts to ensure order, security, and restore these institutions to its former function. I saw the need to make that statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0296par0578	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0579	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0296par0580	Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0581	He referred to me personally, Mr. President. So I want a say in this.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0298par0582	I'm here to make a statement...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0296par0583	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0584	I mean, you don't want me to talk about me, you don't want me to talk about...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0296par0585	What did he say about you, Mr. Demirel?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0586	The statements that I didn't read the papers or that I had to look at them in the papers...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0296par0587	Okay, Mr. Ironel, I promise you your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0590	Now, we -- I'm speaking as a party that advocates education -- using a language that advocates teaching children, the appointment of unappointed teachers. I mean, we don't have to read newspapers, we don't have to look at newspapers, we don't have to watch TV; we're talking about the situation we're living in. Even schools in places where curfew is not declared are now closed. That's what we're saying, and we've never seen anyone get hurt anywhere, or any school, by the people there. We say these things one by one, and we tell them what we saw.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0299par0591	Who's talking about the people?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0592	Let me be very clear about what's happening here, especially what's happening here, that these pictures we're showing are maybe just a few frames.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0300par0593	The terrorists... said.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0301par0594	The people have already exposed you!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0297par0595	But we've seen it live there. That's why we're making it very clear. Come on, let's go together; we'll go and visit the schools where I read your name. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0302par0597	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. However, Mr. Bostancı has been harmed by the people. He did not say, he has already stated that he has been harmed by the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0303par0599	Mr. President, would you allow me to make a brief statement?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0302par0600	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0303par0602	It's true what the speaker says, as you've determined, that our schools are not harmed by the public, that our people are trying to protect these schools from their attackers as much as they can. Let me briefly read some of the damaged, damaged schools in Diyarbakır province: Silvan Girl Anadolu Hatip High School and boardhouse; Silvan, Malabadi Middle School; Silvan, Hasuni MEMEM; Silvan, Adil Kepolu Elementary School; Silvan, Anadolu Imam Hatip High; Silvan, Green Silvan Professional and Technical Anadolu School; Bismil, Ulturk Elementary School; Bismil, Fatma Elementary School; Bismil, Bismil, Bismil (Emil, Ememil, Ememul, First School; Mardin School; Süp, Diyarbakır School; Sümaz, Süp, Sümümümümüç, Sürçümümümük, Süçün Baş; Sümün Başçünı; Sün Başç, Ösünı, Ösünı, Öğeğünımümümümümümümümümümümünı, Öğünülç, Öğülç, Öğu Başç, Öğeğeğu Başle Başça Başle Başle Başar Başar Başarı; Süçeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğu Başçeğeğu Başçeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğenı; Sümümümünı; Sümümümümünımümümümünımünımüğumımımümümününımımünününımünımünımünımünımününımünımününımününımünı; Sünımününı Başleğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğeğumımünım These are just some of them. We'll repair the ones that can be repaired, we'll repair them, we'll replace them with the ones that can't be repaired, I hope. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0304par0606	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0305par0607	Are there schools where co-chairs' children study, Mr. Minister? Are there schools in which HDP co-Chairs' children study?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0306par0608	Yeah, we read it there.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0307par0609	What are you talking about? Should he count the schools of those who steal, too, huh?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0308par0613	I'm having the next motion read: [[The motion has been read by Clerk Member Izmir MP Özcan Purçu]] ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and provide a change in Article 2 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Dursun Flower (Istanbul) and his friends
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0619	They're in colleges, Minister, private schools.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0310par0620	Should we count the school of the thieves, the corrupters, the ones who hide money in the shoeboxes?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0308par0621	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0622	They're in colleges, abroad.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0311par0623	We don't need our kids, we went to those schools, we did.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0312par0624	We all have our children's schools in the middle.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0625	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0312par0626	We have nothing to hide about that.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0627	There's no porter, there's no porter!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0312par0628	No one steals here, thank God.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0629	Whatever it is, don't be a bitch.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0313par0630	Tell me about the kids who go to America.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0309par0631	You have nothing to do with Kurds or the people.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0314par0632	Do you know too much? Come on!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0315par0634	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0314par0635	Come and see it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0316par0636	You're white Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0314par0637	Don't talk there!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0317par0638	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0318par0639	Have you been gone your whole life? Did you shake the hand of a Kurd?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0319par0640	You're torturing the Kurds there.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0320par0641	Come and see, 20 funerals are on the ground. You're human beings!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0321par0642	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0319par0643	You're white Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0322par0644	Cheap hero!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0321par0645	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0322par0646	There's no one at this time who's not paying the price.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0323par0647	You have nothing to do with Kurds!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0321par0649	Congressmans, please... Here you go. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Member Izmir MP Özcan Purçu]] The Turkish Military Union (MADDE 2) dated 14/7/1964 and will be sent to Cyprus no. 500 has been written in the third joke of the 1st Article of the Law on the Monthly and Other Expenses of the Monthly and Rewards of the Mensup of the Turkish Military Union (Turkish Union) and on the third article of the Union. Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0324par0654	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0321par0655	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0325par0656	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0321par0657	İstanbul MP Dursun Cicek wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Flower.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0326par0660	Mr. President, there are a lot of numbers in these motions, in the bill proposal, and we're going to discuss these issues every Christmas. The Republican People's Party's proposal is, let's discuss it once, and let's not get confused with numbers because these are indicator numbers; some of us understand them as dollars, not dollars. What we're discussing right now is whether to give Mehmetchik another 1.5 lira a day or not? Now, we say: unemployment is too high for young people. The Turkish Armed Forces is a training centre, a school; it provides great opportunities for young people in particular for vocational adoption. Let's create an opportunity to heal the wounds of the consciences of Bedelli, bring equality in paying off the debt of the country, the basis of volunteering. So we have two basic proposals: let this never again come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Let's give the cadets a minimum wage allowance, a salary. Not another suggestion, but only as minimum wage changes will change, and it will never come to the agenda of the House again. Also, let the government pay the pension insurance. We recruit Mehmetchiks, teenagers for 12 months, then they pay the insurance premiums themselves. Now, we've received $18,000 from those who didn't want to do their patriotic duty in the latest price-free draft law. Now, when you divide $18,000 into 12 months, it's about 1,500 lira per month. Now, you're going to give Mehmetchik 72 liras a month for an allowance, but you're going to get 1,500 lira as a state from the non-military, pay-per-viewer. Is that justice? In that case, Mehmet Çikik, who served as a soldier, has a right to 1,500 lira. Now, at the border, at minus 40 degrees, time by time, because of the coldness, because of the danger of freezing, it's not appropriate for the council to take a seven-day 24-hour watch in places where the shift change has been reduced to 30 minutes, to step on a mine at any time in the fight against terrorism, to give Mehmetçik ±3 lira, which is a risk of being killed by a sniper's bullet? In Cyprus, because there are conditions for a truce, let us give these young people who pay a minimum wage, a minimum wage, before Christmas, to protect the rights of Mehmetçik (or poor Anatolian children) who are serving under difficult circumstances, because there is no peace treaty. Let's not confuse our minds with numbers, and for the last time, we propose that we discuss this matter in Congress as the Republican People's Party. I salute the council and its esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0666	Thank you, Mr. Flower. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm going to read the final motion on the 2nd Amendment, and I'm going to process it. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the laws of higher education and the amendments of some Laws and Laws be changed in accordance with the laws referred to in the 2nd article of the Law Proposal shall be replaced and replaced in the form of ▪2.3,3,3,750. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0328par0674	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0675	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0329par0676	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0677	I'd like to talk to you about the motion...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0330par0678	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0679	We're reading the motive. Here you go. The economic conditions of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus have been taken into account, and the allowances to the privates and privates sent to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus have been redesigned according to today's economic conditions and aims to boost the morale and motivation of our troops and to address many problems at the barracks. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "7,380" or "2,680" in the joke "b" shall be changed to "3,974" in the joke "6,528" in the joke "6,528" in the joke "A" in which some Law and Law Orders are being changed. Erkan Haberal Mind Open Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Kemal Zeybek MADDE 3-ADDE 3-27/7/ 1967 of Article 143 of Article 926 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act; A) The first joke (a) of the "first-level gross monthly of the lieutenant's rank" (b) will be added to the term "the officer's rank of 1.530" (c) on the basis of the officer's monthly coefficient of the 1st degree of the 1st degree of the 1st degree of the 1st degree, with the statement of the 1st degree of the 1st degree of the 2nd degree of the gross month" (b) on my hand, as well as the result of the officer's monthly factor of the "6.530." B) The first joke (d) in its (e.g., the first letter of the First Amendment) is "the first-level gross salary of the first-level sergeant's rank, which will be calculated according to the Cetve of EK-VIII/A" as a result of the officer's monthly coefficient of the number 2,685." it has been changed." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the 12th Amendment be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0331par0710	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0711	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0332par0712	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0327par0713	Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0715	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we have offered to remove this provision from the text of the law in Article 3 because we believe that all arrangements for autonomy rights are a means of creating a motivation for better fighting during a period when the whole concept of war is in effect. It is not possible, both humanly and principlely, to participate in this, because if there were any of you who would have bothered to come to the region, the police and the soldier there would have heard their expectations as soon as the war was over and the Parliament could come up with a solution. We were at Diyarbakir last weekend. In places where this curfew has been imposed, the normal transfer to Diyarbakır has been made and many of the police and soldiers who are there have seen us, they say, "We don't want to be in a situation here every day that will ruin our entire family under this fear of life." They say, "You talk about the curfews, you solve them." They say. So it's neither moral nor human nor political ethics to come from here and motivate people to go to war with a number of embodiments, to send people to their deaths. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, it's like this: I'm a physician, I talked to my fellow physicians in Diyarbakır this weekend. Many policemen and soldiers serving there are experiencing what we now call serious posttraumatic stress syndrome. I mean, in a constant field of conflict, the level of a psychology coded to die or kill is extremely severe. Thus, it is everyone's expectation that instead of making arrangements to boost the motivation of war, there will be some political proposals to end that war. Of course, there are some questions that keep us busy while the Minister is here. So you'll continue to be uncomfortable with them. We're not going to come in here and waste Parliament's hours on false agendas while these realities are happening in the region, so we're going to bring those facts here, of course. What's happening out there right now is a brother fight, whether you accept it or not. Two months ago, two childhood friends' funerals went to the same village as one of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), one of whom was a soldier. They played ball in the same neighborhood, went to the same school, graduated from the same high school, and a week apart, their funeral fell on two stoves. We're not gonna come in here and be warmongers. So, of course, we're going to express our own truth.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0334par0721	Tell the PKK, tell the PKK.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0722	We need to resolve this blood, this fight without distinction. Mr. Secretary is here, and I'll tell you, that's what normal security forces out there expect of us. But there are some special elements there, some paramilitary structures, old countererillas, JITEM gangs, here are some special combat devices that write estedollah teams on the wall. We've also asked countless questions about them, Mr. Secretary, and so far he hasn't given any answers. Of course, they might want this war machine to work because they owe their existence to that war machine. Mr. Secretary, what is this structure, what is it, and where is it funded? What structure do they depend on, where do they get their salary? Do you have an investigation into these structures that are seeking to bring this country into the racist environment of Diyarbakır Prison on September 12th? If you turn your back on all these facts, if you bury your head in the sand, of course you're uncomfortable with a lot of conversations that we're going to express here. Don't call it that. At Şırnak State Hospital, the funeral of the 11 children's mother Taybet and the three-month-old Miray baby is now held. Where the bullets from those two funerals came from, more than we do, and so do the ministers who performed the autopsy there. If a baby was born in a city under curfew and died three months ago in a city under curfew, without a free breath, there's a different situation, not a war on terrorism. I invite you all to consider the situation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0335par0728	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0336par0729	Tell me where the bullet came from. Where's the bullet coming from? You're just talking...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0730	It's all clear where they all came from, all of them, all of them.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0335par0731	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0336par0732	Know your place, know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0733	You know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0336par0734	You'll know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0337par0735	Don't shout... don't shout...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0736	Don't do that hand-to-hand thing! You know your place, you know your place!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0336par0737	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0333par0738	Don't be rude.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0336par0739	And they accuse me.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0338par0740	I voted on the motion, guys. Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Article 143 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926 dated 3-ADDE 3-27/7/ 1967; A) The first joke (a) is "a" of the first-level gross monthly of the lieutenant's rank (b) "a" (a) and "a" (a) of the officer's monthly coefficient of the 1st grade of the 1st grade of the gross month" (b) in my hand, and "a" (e) will be the result of the officer's monthly factor of the "6.530th degree of the lieutenant's rank" (e). B) The first joke (d) in its (e.g., the first letter of the First Amendment) is "the first-level gross salary of the first-level sergeant's rank, which will be calculated according to the Cetve of EK-VIII/A" as a result of the officer's monthly coefficient of the number 2,685." it has been changed." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0339par0752	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0338par0753	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0340par0754	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0338par0755	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal has asked about the motion. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0341par0758	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When we looked at the Proposal of the Law to Change Some Laws and Laws in 12 rows, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu said on 15 September 2014: "The law period of Torba is on the shelf, the bag laws will no longer come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." This is what Mr. Davutoglu said to the public during the first period of his election. Now, when we look at the 12th row of Law Proposal, there are 12 articles, along with the Article of Walking. 12 articles, Mr. President, 5, 7, 9 or 3 of them are in effect, and 2 of them are in accordance with the law. Now, dear lawmakers, we have friends among you who are lawyers. Article 91 of our Constitution states: Decisions in the ordinance of the law come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a priority and as a result of marriage, first the laws of this law must be enforced. Congressman, you're a lawyer. So, yes, we support these, what's in favor of the public, but how many laws do you change before the legislature comes to order, Mr. Secretary? You're a professor. So when we read the eighth joke of Article 91 of the Constitution, we see clearly and clearly how wrongly the process was done. Now, of course, the Prime Minister must first keep his promises. Yes, both you and I, the President, the Prime Minister, everyone swears to uphold the law, the Constitution, according to the rules of our Constitution. Now, I have a document on the top page and on the bottom page. This is what they call the secret secrets of the state... this secret document, which Mr. President has informed the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office about the fugitive palace, reporting the Court's report, sir, process it, inform me of the transaction. When I was a college student, Professor Dr. Burhan Lamb Hodja was also a research officer as a constitutional law teacher. In his constitutional books, he says: "Sir, the executive body can't instruct the judiciary, can't give orders." In what text did you teach us at the university, Mr. Burhan Lamb Hodja, in which text, the president gives a secret petition to the republic's attorney? What's he got to do? Would a complaint be confidential? In a complaint, can the vice president's secretary general here complain to him about the power of attorney?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0342par0766	He wanted to, wouldn't he want information?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0341par0767	You know what this Republican prosecutor did? That's exactly what the D.A. did, without delay, without delay. Dear friends, this isn't really a matter in line with the state of law, with oaths, et cetera.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0342par0768	The President wants information, he wants information from every institution.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0341par0769	While our Minister of National Education is here -- of course, the Şanlıurfans complain to me, and the AKP gives the votes -- although they're applying for school in the village of Siverek, Şanlıurfa Province, Turkey. The 15 services regularly receive students in that village - village victims, students, and families, because the road was not built. I'm asking you to consider the applications of the Çutrık village of Siverek County. He wants a school in a citizen's village, brother, he doesn't want anything else. If your school does not have a place, the citizen in the village has promised to allocate the school seat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the rest of you are missing money, I'll pay part of my salary, as a government contribution, let's do this school.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0343par0773	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "7,380" or "2,680" in the joke "b" shall be changed to "3,974" in the joke "6,528" in the joke "6,528" in the joke "A" in which some Law and Law Orders are being changed. Erkan Haberal (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0344par0780	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0343par0781	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0345par0782	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0346par0783	Motive...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0343par0784	I'm reading the reason: The allowances for military students are being organised under Article 143 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 926. Earnings for military students studying at military schools, universities and colleges in the current practice are calculated through the first-level gross pension of the rank of lieutenant to military high school students, military high school students. The regulation of Article 3 (a) of the Law shall now be given to these students the sum of the 6.528 indicators multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient, or 575 lira allowance. The indicator coefficient with our proposal is 7.380 lira, so the allowances of these students are increased to $650. The first joke of Article 143 (d) is to prepare a petty officer and to provide allowance for students of the petty officer's university of applied sciences and for those who have completed faculty, universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences in their second joke. In the current application, the allowances for these are calculated on the 1st level gross salary of the rank of Petty Officer Sergeant. The regulation of Article 3 (b) of Article 3 will be taken into account the number of allowances given to the students of the Petty Officers and the students of the Petty Officer's College and to the people who have completed their name and university of applied sciences, and to those who have received basic military education to be considered, and they will be multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient of the number 2.680. As a result of 2.680 indicators in our proposal, Petty Officers and Petty Officers will be raised to $350 in allowances for students who have graduated from the university of applied sciences, universities of applied sciences, or universities of applied sciences. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 4 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Murat Minister The following temporary clause is added to Law 4-926. Petty Officers, subject to the EK-VIII Monthly Show Table 38 - EK-VIII/A, are assigned to the EK-VIII/B Monthly Show Table. In this scope, the action to the current degrees and degrees; the junior high school, high school, high school graduates -- three levels to those with a degree or a degree to the first degree -- were subjected to two years of higher education -- two levels to petty officers who had completed three years of high schooling, one level, four years of higher education -- and two levels to the petty officers who had completed two levels, and EK-VIII and EK-VIII, and EK-VIII, and EK-VIII, were subjected to the EK-VIII. After finishing two years of higher education with upper secondary school graduates and seniors, it is recommended by adding two steps to the degree and to the level where they are, at least four years or more, for those who have completed higher education for at least one time. According to this clause, Article 137 does not apply intibative provisions regarding the action. The first joke of this article, based on the conditions of education on the date of their retirement, is also applied to those who are subject to EK-VIII and EK-VIII/B's Monthly Show Tables, as well as to those who are subject to the 109th Amendment provisions, as well as to those who are eligible for pension, disability, or duty pension. In accordance with this clause, due payment will be finalized within three months. The amount of difference between pension or institutional or insurance premiums (including general health insurance premium) will be in employee and employer's share; the penalty for delay, delay increase or interest will be paid to the Social Security Institution within three months of the day when this clause is in effect. Due to the application of this clause, there will be no repayment for regression." Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the 12th Law Proposal be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Sibel Yiğitalp Mithat Sancar Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0347par0810	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0343par0811	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0348par0812	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0343par0813	About the motion, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0349par0816	Mr. President, lawmakers, today's talks, the shortcomings of the military constitution, coup constitutions in Turkey, the work conducted at the point of resolving our constitutional problems, which do not include Turkey, with such a bag of constitutions, unfortunately, are not responding to any of the laws of war, which are currently being enforced by administrative decrees. In fact, none of these constitutions and any of the current bag laws, the bag laws, are capable of answering Turkey's system, our problems, Turkey's problems. Right now, at this hour, none of the curfew decisions the governorates have actually made by taking power are in line with the laws, the law, the constitutions of military coups. So, yes, we propose that the fourth article be removed from the text, because according to the report by the Institute for International Peace Studies, Turkey is ranked in the 15th place in military spending around the world. And we don't think that taking in veterans, taking in rangers and raising wages under the incentive of the military system will solve this problem, because the military system has many problems in this country, especially the right to conscientious rejection. We believe that none of these problems can be solved, especially in the Kurdish issue, with security approaches, militant policies. Militarian policies, war policies, military condensations and spending on this show how far back the country is at every legal and security point. Therefore, this clause must be removed for sure. And right now, in Dargezit, Tyre, Mardin, Cleopatra, with only one executive ruling, the martial law under which there is no legal basis must be lifted immediately, under the name of curfew. And to do that, all of you who are sitting in the rows now have to say that this is actually 'dur', stop picking on the HDP Group, stop picking on its speakers, and say that there is no law in the region right now. Thus, the families of the babies, mothers, and children who are now waiting in the morgues await a decision from this Parliament. Therefore, we are now... a new constitution written in a coup, trying to be corrected by the bag of laws must be written, including the immediate change of the Constitution, and a new constitution covering the entire Turkish constitution, including all decisions at the point of political governance, which are now described as "result," including all decisions. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must take office at this point, where you MPs have the authority from these people. Right now, you have to go to areas where the right to education, health care, right to communicate, travel and all constitutional rights have been violated, and in private, the right to live is violated, and you have to stop. Therefore, our ministers are ready, and their answers to our questions do not match the facts. I'm a Bitlis MP. I went to Nusaybin, went to Cizre, went to Silopi, and the last time I went to Tyre. There's no more gas, no more water. We've been insulted. Today, in Batman, our Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslana says to an officer, a policeman: "I am the state, you are the deputy." What does he mean here? I'd like to ask our Minister, what is it they say here? Who is the government, who is the deputy? This needs to be explained very well. On this basis, I'd like to re-invite the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0350par0822	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0351par0824	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit03spe0350par0825	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0350par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 4 of the Law Proposal 12. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0352par0005	I swear it's accepted, Mr. President. President, accepted.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0353par0006	Sustained.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0354par0007	Yes, it's been accepted.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0355par0008	The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0353par0009	Sustained.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0355par0010	We'll continue negotiations with the proposal.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0356par0011	Mr. President, during the EC PARTY, there were a number of friends who participated in our motion.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0355par0012	No, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0357par0013	Sir, they agreed. Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0356par0014	No, according to what, it wasn't accepted. What did you say?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0355par0015	She didn't get in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0358par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0356par0017	A lot of congressmen picked up friends.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0359par0018	They've both been raised.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0360par0019	For God's sake, Mr. Baluken, please...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0356par0020	So repeat after me.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0361par0021	Sir, they've raised their hand to both of them.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0360par0022	Please, it's not decided yet. I said those who agreed to the motion, and those who didn't say yes, once again, let it go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0362par0023	In fact, together, they raised them up to those who accepted them, and those who refused to accept them.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0363par0024	No, a lot of congressmen picked up friends.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0360par0025	We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0364par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0365par0029	You agreed together. Check the records, the records.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0364par0030	Come on, look at the records. Look, the Turkish people will be watching this tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0366par0031	Now I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 4 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to Law No. 926. Petty Officers, subject to the EK-VIII Monthly Show Table 38 - EK-VIII/A, are assigned to the EK-VIII/B Monthly Show Table. In this scope, the action to the current degrees and degrees; the junior high school, high school and senior high school graduates -- those who have achieved a degree or first degree -- were subjected to three levels, two years of higher education -- two levels, and the officers who have completed three years of higher education -- were added to two levels, according to the 109th-year high-period provisions, to the officers who have completed one step, four-year-long higher education, and to the petty officers who have completed two levels, and EK-VIII and EK-VIII and EK-VIII/B. After finishing two years of higher education with upper secondary school graduates and seniors, it is recommended by adding two steps to the degree and to the level where they are, at least four years or more, for those who have completed higher education for at least one time. According to this clause, Article 137 does not apply intibative provisions regarding the action. The first joke of this article, based on the level of studies on the date of their retirement, is also applied to those who are subject to EK-VIII and EK-VIII/B Monthly Indicative Tables, as well as to those who are subject to Article 109 of these provisions, as well as to those who have been treated with pensions, disability or duty pensions. In accordance with this clause, due payment will be finalized within three months. The amount of difference in employee and employer's shares, including pension or institutional or insurance premiums (including general health insurance premium), is paid to Social Security within three months of the day when this clause is in effect, without delay, delay or interest. Due to the application of this clause, no repayment is made. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0367par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0366par0041	Government?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0368par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0366par0043	Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu wants to talk about the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0369par0046	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to our motion for Article 4 of the 12th Amendment. My respects to all of you. Dear friends, this is an offer from the Plan and Budget Commission. We discussed it on Friday at the Plan and Budget Commission. You know, we went home at 3:00 a.m. on Wednesday and Thursday nights, and we didn't get enough work done on those issues. These are the issues that bureaucracy brought to us at the last moment, which were supposed to come to us as a bill, which were not asked to the relevant institutions, were not prepared by relevant institutions, were not received, were discussed here incorrectly. But it's urgent, it's bringing improvements on personnel issues, rights, so we've accepted it in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we're not opposed here. But what we have to say about this is that we're adding a temporary clause within the 926 Law framework, and we're making a improvement to the petty officers, both in phases and intuitives. But what we need to pay attention to here is the protection of earned rights, the rights of petty officers so far. We have to be especially careful about that, which is what our motion was about. The rights that have been earned must be preserved once. The Commission and the government didn't agree, but I don't think it was done very well. Besides, it's not supposed to be done in such a hurry when all this is being done, it needs to be a integrity. I'll tell you in a moment when I speak again. We've changed the current system, the current system, the current system, a different system, because the arrangement we've made for privates and privates brings in more fees than the petty officers. It's all wrong. These, of course, are the jobs that mess up the whole system. These need to be fixed. I'm going to take this opportunity -- and this kind of law requires that the relevant institutions be put on the table, a review of the relevant institutions -- and let me tell you very briefly the issues that are available about petty officers. Mr. Secretary knows, but the military is becoming more and more important, and the situation of the Turkish Armed Forces is becoming more and more important. These include three-quarters of the leader's staff in the military. So we need to know what's wrong with the petty officers, and we need to do what we have to do with them. There's a major problem with petty officers' severance, there's a problem with their attitude. We're fixing some here, but it's not enough. Instead of starting at 9/1, they want to start at 9/2, just like the other officers, because in the same situation, they start at 9/2. Unfortunately, that leads to victimization in petty officers later. Again, it doesn't reflect on their pension. For example, an officer retires with a salary of 80-85 percent of his salary, while petty officers retire with 45-50. So he retires with half his salary and less than half his salary. And that's causing a lot of trouble. A staff arrangement for petty officers is required, and the Disciplinary Law must be reorganised according to human rights and the Constitution. We need to do all this. Compared to officers, the status of the petty officers is all on officers, not on petty officers, not on petty officers. Although, in fact, petty officers are very important staff in the military. Their situation needs to be improved, their problems solved. In my next speech, I'm going to go into this in a little bit more detail. I hereby pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0370par0055	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I now read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of the 12th amendment in the 5th Article of the Law Proposal shall be changed to June 30, 2016. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Müslüm Doğan Sibel Yiğitalp Mithat Sancar Kadri Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 5 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Tulip ADADDE 5-4/11/1981 was changed in December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2017) in the final sentence of Article 55 of Article 2547 in the second sentence of Article 55. Now I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Framework 5 (Preparation 5) in the following way to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. Erkan Haberal Mind Open Erkan Akçay Ruhi Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu The second joke of Article 55 of Higher Education Law No. 2547, dated 5-4/11/1981, has been changed as follows. In Article 30, the age of retirement for teachers is the date of the age of seventy-two, at the request of their teachers. This practice continues until December 31, 2023. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0371par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0370par0084	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0372par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0370par0086	Ankara MP Erkan Haberal wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0373par0089	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion we made as the National Movement Party on Article 5 of the Law. I salute you all. There are a total of 193 universities of applied sciences in our country, including 109 public universities, 76 foundation universities, 8 foundation universities. In view of military higher education institutions, law enforcement institutes, the universities of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and private status state universities, the number of pre-license, licensing and graduate education institutions has increased considerably. Opening a new institute of higher education means opening new programmes. The number of students and their status are also important in the opening criteria for new or open programmes. Article 30 of Higher Education Law 2547 covers both the foundation and the state universities. However, it is fundamentally against the principle of equality that professors are retired at public universities when they are 67 years old, while they are still being served and employed at the university of the foundation after 67 years of age, while they are being transferred to the state universities after 67 years of age. In addition, it is imperative that the professor was appointed professor of Article 26 of Law 2547 at the university of state or foundation, and was not 72 years old, according to the provisions of Article 26 of Law 2547. In universities founded with 5467, 5662 and 5765, those who are retired from the age of age and who work at the foundation universities are able to take professorship exams until they are 72 years old, and in public universities they are unable to take professorship exams because of their retirement at the age of 67. The professors of teaching have been appointed to be professors' professors at the end of their 72-year-old age to be members of the jury, while they are not able to participate in a professorship due to their retirement at 67-year-old age. He is cut off from the state university where professors who have dedicated their lives to science, raised students and assistants, whose title is professor, work at the age of 67. Professors who want to continue academic studies, science production, students and academics are looking for different ways and methods. For other professions, this is not the case in academic life, in teaching, although it may seem to be a 67-year-old age, a long-standing age of retirement. The most important and meaningful example of this was shown recently by Professor Dr. Sancar at the age of 69, receiving the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Professor Dr. St. Sancar, 69, still works at the University of North Carolina Biochemistry and Biophysics Department. This shows that in the academic world scientists continue to produce at all ages. For the reasons that we're only talking about some of the above, we're proposing that the 67-year-old pension members of the state universities be automatically raised to 72 if the professor wants to. In addition, the number of students in our country's higher education institutions, student capacity, and student presence shows that the number of teachers is not enough. Scholars who have completed their Ph.D. are expected to be appointed immediately, given their staff, to contribute to the science world, academic life, even though they have the appointment criteria in the assistant professors, professors, but are not appointed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the hope that you will support our motion, I thank you all, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0374par0097	Thank you, Mr. Haberal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 5 of Law Proposal 12 in the following manner. Tulip Carabinieri (Bursa) and his friends ADADDE 5-4/11/1981 was changed in December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2017) in the final sentence of Article 55 of Article 2547 in the second sentence of Article 55. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0375par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0374par0106	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0376par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0374par0108	Bursa MP Lale Karbük who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0377par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, there's a confusion of concepts, and I want to correct it. By the way, I've been an academic for 27 years and 14 years of administrative duties. Therefore, in order for the public not to get the wrong information, I think a few of the false statements said here in speeches, social media and television programs should be corrected. Now, sir, first of all, the relevant substance raises the 67-year-old age limit of professors who work not only at all public universities, but only at newly established state universities. Second: The members of this article are the students, not the students, because the two are different concepts. Teachers are already able to go on until they are 65 years old. They are called professors, assistant professors, professors and professors. So I just wanted to underline that because there's a misunderstanding on social media, like it's all being extended. Now, first of all, let me tell you what the professors who are now 67 years old at public colleges are doing. A 67-year-old lecturer, if he wants to continue teaching again, is able to re-enter a class in real practice, in all state universities, according to Article 31, with Article 31, with the SGK, but to do so, the department has to make a positive decision, which at this point young professors don't prefer because they want to have a lesson left to them. So, what else does a professor do when he's 67? If there is a foundation university in his district, he will teach there, or a 67-year-old professor, who will continue his studies there until he is 72 years old, passing on to the emerging, newly established universities mentioned at work. Now, let's take this from a different perspective. Why is this material being brought in? In order to meet the academic needs of new universities, there is a concept called the "KYOP" -- the Teacher's Growth Programme. Look, this program was opened specifically to raise professors at new universities, and 15 staffs were assigned. Here, in the newly established state universities, you can appreciate that a master's degree and a Ph.D. can't be done because of the lack of faculty. In order to get the staff of these researchers to the newly established state universities -- not to get into too many technical details -- they are trained in the major university, and then those who have finished their Ph.D. in the upper university are put into the ranks of the developing universities. At this point, the DOA program has been terminated, it's over, but so far, the people who have grown up have no staff in the universities they've been to. SOP has come in a very complicated way, so far, it's caused a lot of victims. On the one hand, the SOP is unpredictable. Last week, the NGO was lifted. After a few days, it was said: "We're going again with the SOP." There's now an assistant at the university who's been taught at the institute, a staff that we call,333, and a P.O.P. I mean, actually, a dean is not even part of the planning of how to raise a professor at these universities, which are founded with a sense of space. Right now, the universities don't know how to get a professor next year, which way to hire an assistant. That's what we need a policy for, that's the uncertainty. Whereas the citizen is sending his child to college, there's no telling how these universities will yet meet the need for faculty. Finally, I would like to say, please, that we need to develop a permanent, sustainable policy here. I find it helpful to underline the need for this. Second, all educational institutions should never be the back yard of politics, especially universities. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0378par0119	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "December 31, 2016" in Article 5 of the 12th Law Proposal shall be changed to "June 30, 2016." Kadir Yıldırım (Siirt) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0379par0126	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0378par0127	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0380par0128	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0378par0129	It's Siirt MP Kadir Yıldırım who wants to speak about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0381par0132	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, I salute you all. The speaker before me pointed out that politics should not have a backyard and higher education. In the same way, he said, it is much more important that higher education be restored to an autonomous and liberal structure. I agree. I'm going to leave from the connection between Mardin Artuklu University and the NGO. As it is known, the Kurdistan Department, founded at the University of Artuklu, Mardin, signed many principles. For the first time, this department ran the licensing department, and for the first time, it ran the master's department. He graduated about 1,500. Some 40 staffed teachers employed from abroad and abroad. Our Minister of National Education is here. He knows. We've had meetings with them. This chapter has prepared the selected Kurdish lessons of the Ministry of National Education. When it came time for the doctorate, we applied for it. It's been two years. There's still no response to our request for this doctor, no confirmation. However, some universities outside the University of Artuklu had also opened Kurdish language chapters. Despite the lack of infrastructure for any Kurdistanlogy staff at these universities, they were granted doctoral approval. I'm having a hard time understanding that. If it was me, I'm not head of that department anymore. Furthermore, the YÖK has appointed a close chancellor at the University of Artuklu in Mardin. However, a question has been asked to our head of the RCC because the Department of Kurdistan was not approved by the doctorate at Mardin Artuklu University. If it's true, his answer -- which I'll try to confirm -- is truly exemplary. Because it is said that the head of the CEC responded to the question: "Kadri Hodja left, but his staff continues there. I don't give doctor's approval to that staff. Our National Education Minister is here, and our RD representative is here, especially from here, I beg you. Despite the fact that he has been carrying the terms for two years, I am asking the Kurdistan Department of Mardin Artuklu University why his doctorate was not given to him at once, and I request that he be given it immediately. Secondly, this year, only 179 Kurdish teachers applied for the nomination. Look, the others must have given up hope that they didn't apply, only 179 people applied. I specifically request that the appointment of 179 people from our Minister of National Education be appointed so that at least the hopes will grow with this appointment. In addition, let the Ministry of National Education and the NGO do its part in education in the main language. Look, I've been getting letters and phone calls for the past few days from the leaders of opinion in the region. Both education in the native language and the other dimensions of the Kurdish problem make us all happy, of course, but it is important that the HDP MPs, the other MPs, the other parties, the CHP, and the MP, receive a collective response to avoid exclusion. Because if only the respectable religious leaders, the sheiks, are considered, it would cause a major division of the region within that section. I mean, the pro-government scholars, the madrasses, the wells, the sheiks and the sheiks, and the non-governmentalists... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will form a category, which will cause serious trouble in the region, and those respectable people will be viewed with a disreputable view. I find it very helpful to consider that, too. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0382par0143	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0383par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0382par0148	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0383par0149	Mr. President, I have the motion for this new clause violation right now. In this motion, a temporary clause related to Social Insurance No. 5510 and General Health Insurance...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0384par0150	We can't hear you, Mr. President, we can't hear you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0383par0151	You can turn on the microphone if you want.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0385par0152	Here, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0384par0153	You open it to the ruling lawmakers, you don't open it to the opposition.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0385par0154	I'll open it. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0386par0156	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, when we look at the content of this proposal, we see that there are both interim substances related to Social Insurance No. 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act, and that some regulations are being made concerning Article 3213 of Mining Law. You know, according to the Civil Code, new amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the law, which is not the subject of the proposed bill or proposal, cannot be implemented. We believe that the law that we're talking about here has nothing to do with the fundamental law that's being discussed right now. So we don't think you're going to be able to process this amendment motion. We wanted to inform the General Assembly on this matter.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit04spe0387par0160	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0387par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal Number 12 The Commission and the Government are here. The government has a demand for a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0388par0006	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have received a temporary proposal regarding Social Insurance No. 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act. I'm afraid we're in a strange situation here. As of December 2, 2015, we continue our work on the minimum wage detection commission. Participants related to the minimum wage detection commission are employees, employers and public. As these studies continued for about twenty-five or twenty-six days, a consensus was almost jointly agreed that the minimum wage would come from $1,000 to $1,300 flat. A very natural picture of the minimum wage fee of 1,300 lira came up, especially when the employer said that he was facing a serious cost, that the normal-designed minimum wage increase would have to be an increase in inflation plus, as every year, but that a 30 per cent increase was substantially costly, and that it would reduce competitiveness, and that it would need to be partially supported by the public. We held about three or four separate sessions, and we shared it with the government. After sharing it, an assessment came to light, and we wanted to present this assessment with a temporary motion in our House. The assessment is that there are about 5.3 million minimum wagers today, so as of September 2015, there are about 5,300,000 minimum wage fees. And this minimum wage is $1,005. If $1,300 were today, the minimum salary between $1,000 and $1,300 would be 8,520,000. So what we've done is let's put together a support for these 8 million, 520,000 people. Because the High Assembly appreciates that microscale businesses are at a minimum wage between 70 per cent and 75 per cent of their employees, especially small, medium-sized businesses. In order to protect microscale enterprises, we have been asked to provide support by NGOs and employers and entrepreneurs. Of course, our friends have an assessment: Why is it today? Again, you'll appreciate that Turkey is making a budget. We should have thought about what we could afford and how much we could afford in this budget draft. For about a week, ten days, outside the temporary budget, our work on the general budget has come to a point, and today we have a picture of just how much burden we can get from the employer. The employer's average burden is 274 liras for a minimum wage. They have a demand that some of this $274 be shared. The workers agreed to this, and they made a joint statement. Both TÜRK-History and other trade unions, especially in the last working assembly of our Prime Minister, are reasonable, because if such a painting were to appear, it would send it off the record, and if such a painting were to be discovered -- God forbid -- there would be layoffs, and if such a painting were to be discovered, Turkey's competitiveness in the world would be reduced. There has been a claim, which is stable and true. In our work on this, we agreed that part of this $274 would be met from within the general budget, or rather, the government has reached such a decision. And today we're talking about this -- 8,500, a total of 12 million, 800,000 active insurance, 337, 340,000 public employees, public insurance, public workers -- over a total of 13 million. We could've done this: all the payers could've been given a piece, but we didn't do it. It's just that here, in particular, you can preserve the rights of minimum-paying people and provide the ability to move freely to minimum-paying businesses, but you can do that for employment. In bringing this, we also provided another important opening for these businesses, which required an understanding of employment and minimum wage, or, in fact, of increasing employment. Whatever people he employs last year -- in the year 2015 -- is minimum wage, to increase his capacity, and if it's going to give him a 10% increase, we also pledge that we'll meet him, so that's both incentives for growth and incentives for competitiveness. We've talked to our Republican People's Party group, our National Movement Party Group and our HDP Group, and we've explained all of this, and we've done these evaluations reasonably. And finally, the HDP Group left us and said nothing to this except reasonable, you can bring this. He said, "You can bring this." And we brought this. Now, I'll tell you this: there's a nation and a people who are responsible for this Great National Assembly that we live in the Republic of Turkey, and in this process, the public has determined the minimum wage in labour-employing relations, while there are also very valuable individuals working in public, who have been involved in these issues in the past period -- this has never exceeded December 30th and December 31th. Now, for the first time, this kind of uncertainty will take us back to New Year's Eve. I don't think that's true and I think it's done with political wisdom. Where's the favor in that for the employer? On the contrary, today the employer may object to what we have given, or not. He will say, and it is clear that it is only chaos that creates nothing else. I don't think it's entirely true, and I don't think this responsibility should be taken by this House. As a result, after January 1st, let the declarations be delivered later. Why go into such complexity? Why would we go into such a mistake? What's the reason? What makes sense? I mean, I'm also in charge of the Ministry of Labor. Many employers are now facing mass layoffs because they can't carry this minimum wage, as there is a month's notice period. Is that what we should do? Let's do it in a way, do it your way. Shall we say? I think it's very wrong. We withdraw this motion, but I want to make it clear that this is not true and that in working life, a new chaotic situation will arise in the working life we seek for peace, and I consider it a very absurd approach to describing it as a favor to the employer, an unfair approach. How can you do such a thing? I mean, we can be politically opposed to each other, but what do we want from the nation? What do we want with 14 million people? Gentlemen, we get our salaries from the taxes these people pay, we get from the minimum wage, we get from the employer's tax. We have to fulfill our responsibilities. Oh, we can do that after January, but I want to say that the behavior, especially by the HDP Group, was extremely wrong and irresponsible.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0389par0012	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0388par0013	There's nothing else to do, I think we're withdrawing the motion.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0389par0014	Yes, the motion has been withdrawn.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0390par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0389par0016	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0390par0017	Mr. President, here, of course, after Mr. Minister's statements, we need to make a statement to clarify the matter as the HDP Group, because he spoke in a way that was not appropriate for any Minister, such as causing chaos, in an absurd approach.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0389par0018	Here you go, I'll turn on the mic.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0390par0019	Garo Paylan will answer.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0389par0020	Let's turn on Mr. Paylan's microphone.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0391par0021	Dear lawmakers, we discussed the motion on this matter inside, and we spoke our criticisms, respectively. And when Solomon asked Mr. Sadi, "Will you sign?" I said, "No, we will not sign." And I said, "I will see my party." I'll give you my reasons. For once, such a motion should not have been left today. Especially if such a law should not be put in the middle of a bag of legislation. And our other reasons are: First of all, he mentioned international competition, Mr. Secretary. Look, the minimum wage is on January 1, 2015, which is $462. Then I'm guessing it was $950 or something. The current $1,300 is $442, which is under the last year. If we have employers who sell goods to international spaces, we pay less than a dollar for it, minimum wage. This thesis is wrong one time. He won't drag it off the record because everyone will pay the same number. For years, we've known that employers -- there are people coming from the market -- they always look low -- so now at 5.3 million minimum wage workers -- as all of us will agree, two thirds of them don't get a minimum wage, they get a higher number; they've been doing this for years; and the employer has damaged both the public and the employee's right to retirement, including the fact that it looks low. We have one more item in the motion that we present his criticism inside. It's still a number below what we call hunger. So according to the current figures, there's a hunger limit of around 1,400 lira. $1,300 is under there. Our proposal was 2,000 euros in our election declaration, the CHP's motion was 1,500 euros, I believe it was 1,600 euros.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0392par0025	1,400 lira.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0391par0026	1,400. In this frame, the minimum wage is already below these numbers, under all promises. In this sense, the AKP has fulfilled its commitment, and employers must for the first time in years pay the minimum wage, both the tax and the right to the worker and the right to pension. In this sense, $10 billion, look, you're going to take a step that's going to bring $10 billion to the public from the budget, and it's going to be $10 billion. In this framework, we demand that these 10 billion euros be paid by the employer and spent on these policies, including social policies. In that sense, it is best to withdraw this motion and hope that it will never come again. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0393par0031	Thank you. The Commissioner has a request for a statement. Here you are, Sorayya Sadi Scholar.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0394par0034	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Paylan, let me correct him, and we will work together in the Commission. Second, we talked about it inside. It's because there's a consensus inside, and I asked you if you'd sign, and I asked the other groups. Since this has been proposed by the government... if you're paying attention to our party group, not by lawmakers, but by the Labour and Social Security Minister's signature, the reason why this motion was brought in was because our friends from the other opposition party had given their opinion at the point of giving it to the government. Also, before the last motion was submitted, I came before you and Mr. Baluken, and I'm giving you the motion on the minimum wage. When I said, "OK." I took this motion and handed it over. So it's a little bit clearer, you know, this is 5510, here's the Mining Law, because there's a different kind of arrangement for coal mining and coal mining, but we'll do it that way next time. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0395par0039	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0396par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0395par0041	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0396par0042	We need an explanation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0395par0043	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0396par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. And I was amazed to hear Mr. Commissioner's statement. I mean, the Plan and Budget Commission just said that our member inside approved this motion. When we asked our commissioner, he said he didn't approve. Now, the Commissioner says that by including me, we have approved this motion and a consensus has been reached. That information is definitely not true.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0397par0047	Mr. Baluken, I asked you if you were in front of me; I asked all the groups, and I asked you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0396par0048	In such important matters, we have always advocated the implementation of legislation techniques in accordance with the rules and regulations of this Assembly, and we will then defend them. Without discussing such an important issue with political parties, without the necessary debates on the Commission, bringing such last-minute motions and arguing here in a non-relevance manner, of course, the People's Democratic Party uses the authority to control the opposition. Besides, I've been listening astounded again all morning, as if we've prevented the minimum wage from being $1,300. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0397par0050	Right.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0396par0051	We think that price should be higher, and we've expressed it in our election declaration. But to take the burden from the treasure to the employer here is to put it back into poor, hardworking peoples within the taxation system in Turkey. There is no acceptable aspect to this situation from our point of view. Besides, it doesn't bring about an equal competition for large, medium and small businesses. We think that this motion should be withdrawn because of both the legal technique and the content that we've stated. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0398par0054	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The motion for the new substance clause has been withdrawn. Now, we'll resume negotiations on the 6th article of the proposal where we left off. There are two motions on Article 6 that I now read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the amendment of the Interim Article 12 (Second Article 12) in Article 6 of the 12th Law Proposal. İdris Bauken Çağlar Demirel Ayhan Bilgen Berdan Özturk Burcu Çelik Özkan "1) Up to 1/1/2017, it is determined that water and water products are needed in water fields and water products in the property of the Treasury or State Water Affairs General Directorate, or the technical conditions and year-long costs of the rights of the water and year-on-year production, taking into account waterwater products to land production facilities or to reform these areas. These places are also leased to real or legal persons, their incomes to the province's private administrations, and to NGOs concerned by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, as well as to the general budget in the provinces where the province's private administrations are removed. Renting of territorial areas that will be needed in project investments is carried out by the financial institution of the move within the framework of joke provisions. The procedure and basis for the implementation and rentals of this clause are determined by the regulation issued by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." Now, I'm going to read and process the most anti-matter motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 6 of Law Proposal 12 in the following way. With all due respect. Ali Özcan Tahsin Tarhan Dursun Flower Kemal Zeybek Haydar Akar Haluk Pekşen Article 12 of the Law on Reconstructions in Article 6 - 13/2/2011 and on the Law of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and on the Decisions of Some Other Laws and Laws has been changed as follows. (Temporial Article 12 - (1) Until 1/1/2017, the property of the Treasury or State Waterworks General Directorate, or the terms of the right to rent, terms and annual costs, in terms of land products production facilities or by means of reforming these areas, is determined by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, and Animalism, to determine the conditions of water products which are needed in investments in water and water fields and water products in the sea and internal waters. These places are leased by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, for real or corporate individuals, for the province's private administrations, and for the cities where the state's private administrations are removed. Renting of territorial areas that will be needed in project investments is carried out by the non-moving agency within the framework of the provisions of this clause. The procedure and the basis for the implementation and rentals of this clause are adopted by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, with regulations issued by the Finance Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0399par0076	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0398par0077	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0400par0078	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0398par0079	Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen wants to make a statement about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0401par0082	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, this is something that we're actually going to talk about, perhaps it's something that needs to be decided privately on the agenda of Parliament and discussed for a long time. We need to take a serious look at the date when Turkey's relations with Egypt were broken, the way it was broken. Turkey-Egypt relations have been broken between Turkey and Egypt in the signing of the Mediterranean's agreement to share economic regions. What's the significance of that? Let me explain to you the importance of this in technical data. In a statement signed by the Greek Cypriot Administration for gas exploration, the energy company for oil search, we found between 5 and 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves. The Turkish term for this is: a reserve has been determined to meet the European Union's 100-year-old gas supply. And where is this reserve located? Right in the Mediterranean, where Turkey claims economic share. At this very moment in Egypt, things are happening, and after some things in Egypt are opening up between Turkey and Egypt, and at the moment today, unfortunately, the gas reserves in that region continue beyond Turkey's control. In fact, this is not the reserve of gas in the region. In its 2010 report by the United States Geological Research Agency, it has been announced that 1 billion 763 million barrels of oil, 223,242 trillion cubic metres of gas reserves in the Eastern Mediterranean itself. Now, the important thing is, there are two deals in the Mediterranean region that are currently in session. One, between Israel, the Greek Cypriot administration and Greece, is the Mediterranean's economic share agreement. Such an agreement envisioned an economic field for Turkey, the Bay of Antalya, where it is condemned. But if other than this agreement, Turkey, as a new actor, is going to protect its economic fields in this business, it must establish its dialogue with Egypt today. For whatever reasons this government developed dialogue with Israel, I assure you, there is a greater reason for Egypt. If we can't sign the Convention on Sea Law on Mediterranean Law, if we can't sign the exclusive economic zone contracts, know that fishing and oil and gas will never be spoken in that region again. Now, this is about the text of the law that comes our way. There were two basic exits: One, you were going to reduce the number of boats, from 21,000 to 16,000. It was a big project about fishing, but unfortunately you left that project on the road. Most of the fishermen actually went down, you know that, boats don't even go out to sea properly. Two, the hunting season was scheduled. The basic demand of all fish hunters was that the hunting season be determined as October 20th, especially October 20th, but unfortunately, it wasn't determined. Now, in the Black Sea, especially in the Black Sea region, a large part of the fishermen's tradesmen have reached a point where they can't almost catch fish in the sea by using extremely large boats, highly developed boats. An app has been made during your rule, here, a ban on Chinese hunting. Why? It's said that if we don't get them to hunt, they're going to grow a little bit bigger, they're going to be lufers. Friends, I've seen that it's not like this, there's no lufer, there's nothing else. Why? Because Turkey has neither a sustainable water products project nor a policy, unfortunately it doesn't. Turkey has been handed over to AKP power by five major sectors, and there are still five major sectors. One of the five major sectors continues to have a serious problem after the Russian crisis. If a real solution is to be produced in Turkey, if a solution to water products and seafood is to be produced, it must be transformed into a state policy, and we believe that AKP has no such concern. The hiring of the fields was already in the hands of his followers, as it has been so far, and he will continue to be in the hands of his followers. Turkey will continue to talk about it. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0402par0091	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the amendment of the Interim Article 12 (Second Article 12) in Article 6 of the 12th Law Proposal. "1) Until 1/1/2017, the Treasury or State Waterworks Gene! Under the ownership of the administration or under the government's rule and savings of water products to be taken from or from places like these, water products to be made on land in production facilities or by reforming these areas are determined by the binding views of food, agriculture and animalism agencies and water products rights in the sea and internal water rights are needed in their investments. These places are also leased to real or legal persons, their incomes to the province's private administrations, and to NGOs concerned by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, as well as to the general budget in the provinces where the province's private administrations are removed. Renting of territorial areas that will be needed in project investments is carried out by the financial institution of the move within the framework of joke provisions. The procedure and basis for the implementation and rentals of this clause are determined by the regulation issued by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." İdris Bauken (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0403par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0402par0099	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0404par0100	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0402par0101	Diyarbakır MP İdris Baluken has asked about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0405par0103	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, the arrangement, the temporary extension, is actually a positive arrangement, but we are not dealing with a law that produces permanent solutions to the issue. Besides, it's relevant, and it's not in the original commission. This is a very problematic situation in terms of the democratism of the legislative technique. So we think that more useful things will be done in the commissions if the draft law, which includes permanent solutions, is brought to the General Assembly, rather than some palliative solutions to the political parties' views. You know, we care about getting the opinion of local initiatives, local governments and NGOs, professional organisations in all the decision-making processes of the state. Unfortunately, none of the legal regulations brought in have a condition of applying for decision-making by relevant occupational organisations or NGOs or local governments in any way, so we have to discuss problematic substances, problematic regulations, incomplete regulations. So you're making a positive arrangement, but since you haven't discussed it enough, unfortunately, you haven't discussed it enough on the commission, it's a poor arrangement. On the other hand, there's one thing that's not generally considered when such arrangements are being made. So an ecological sensibility, a perspective that aims to protect nature and the environment against maximum profit ambition, has never been presented during the AKP administrations. Unfortunately, we face serious problems in many parts of our country. So if you ask the ground, if you ask the NGOs, if you had a little ecological sensitivity, you wouldn't turn the whole country into a HES cemetery, you wouldn't plunder the land of the Black Sea, you wouldn't completely destroy the olive groves, you wouldn't see olive trees as a source of money, you wouldn't make them a natural slaughter, a tree massacre. And as you think about it, unfortunately, when you're building nuclear power plants, when you're taking the ports of this country to capital, when you're handing out their mines to people, to non-entity environments, you're always making arrangements, but you're always making arrangements, and these arrangements are still problem areas, by tying your backs to the palliative laws that you've taken out of here. For example, let me give you an example from my constituency. In lice, this past year, you know, there were protests of large outposts and castles. There are police stations all over lice. There are goalkeepers. However, here we are budgeting for the state, for the government, for Diyarbakır, for lice. Most of the pens that he calls are going to the construction of new castles. Yet, because of an earthquake 40 years ago in lice, people still live in temporary prefabricated homes. So, if you ask liceli, for 40 years, the state will ask you to provide its permanent dwelling, its need for housing, but since you haven't asked it, you're, unfortunately, deepening the problems by calculating its basic needs through new outposts, new goalkeepers. Now, you know, you justify a conflicting process, but in the process that I said, the solution process was going on, there was no conflict. And when there was no conflict, thou didst drown the lice, and the Bingol, and the Lesson, and the Ağarim, and the outposts, and the fortresses, and the security dams. Therefore, we feel that this legislative technique is not appropriate. Even if you've made positive arrangements, I'm saying we're going to continue to supervise how long you've applied for the ideas of NGOs, occupational organisations, local dynamics. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0406par0111	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0405par0112	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0406par0113	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. This concludes the vote of the substances in chapter one. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 7th to 12th article. On behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal has asked for a comment on the second chapter.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0407par0120	Mr. President, I'm going to combine it with the speech I'm going to make on behalf of myself, and I'll speak last.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0406par0121	Yes, Mr. Günal. İstanbul MP Garo Paylan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0408par0126	Mr. President, I'd like to take the order of the General Assembly...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0406par0127	All right, fellas, please, the speaker's on the stand, so let's not mess with him. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0408par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Chapter two, I've made a commitment to materials. We said we were against the whole bag of laws or basic law. We've just seen an example of this. We've seen how wrong it is to have such important issues compressed, undisputed, undisputed at my party. A proposal for 8.5 million people has just arrived in Turkey. We had our talks with him inside. Yeah, it could be reasonable. However, in five minutes, an article that concerns 8.5 million people should not be discussed in this way here, in our opinion, and in our party, all parties and commissions, in particular, need to be discussed in detail. Let's hope he comes back to the worker in a way that the worker's right to the worker, the worker's right, is always low on wages, always low on wages -- you know, employers -- comes with the worker in a way that's with the worker. When we look at the second part of the material, we think that the key is the appointment of teachers here because it only envisions the appointment of 12,500 teachers. However, we know very well that we are still short 300,000 classes and that we are about 150,000 teachers short. This is the identification of the Ministry of National Education and there are 300,000 teachers waiting for the appointment. They graduated from education schools, earned their teaching rights. Mr. President, you're not listening either, but that's the situation here, and that's not the way to talk.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0409par0133	Mr. President, I mean, we can't listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0410par0134	Mr. Paylan, you talk.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0408par0135	But that's no way to talk, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0411par0136	We're listening, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0412par0137	Contact the General Assembly, we're listening.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0413par0138	No noise. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, let's not disturb the councilman's reputation.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0412par0140	Everyone's gonna be ready to listen to you! Speak up, brother, we're listening! For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0414par0141	Please don't talk like that.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0412par0142	I'm listening, bro! I'm listening to you here.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0414par0143	Take it easy, take it easy! Easy!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0415par0144	Mr. Paylan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0412par0145	Yes, address the General Assembly. Not everyone has to pay attention.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0415par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0416par0147	Congressmans, the most important thing is, as I said, the appointment of teachers. It shouldn't have been just 12,500 teachers appointed, we think it should be 150,000 because there are teachers who have been waiting for years to appoint teachers and there are teachers who commit suicide. From this point on, our teachers are waiting for the students. Students... there are still classes where 40, 50, 55, 60 students are in the same class. We need to make sure that these teachers are appointed and that the average number of classrooms drops to 20, as in OECD numbers. As a person who's been managing schools for many years, I can tell you that every number of educations that rise above 20 will drop dramatically, at a geometric rate.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0417par0148	That's right, we got over 50, Garo. It was 50-60, class.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0416par0149	Yeah. From that point on, let's appoint our teachers, increase our schooling numbers, spend money on education. There's a motion again to increase military spending. As in the first chapter, we are opposed to further military spending. There's a substance like that here again. We, unfortunately, still -- an important part of our budget -- we spend $22.6 billion on the military; we spend it on cannons, tanks, guns, and we need to spend it on teachers, children, classrooms. But let's hope it's spent in multilingual multilingual education based on multilingual language. Look, teachers are appointed, they're all teaching Turkish. I, for example, am a person who's been training and managing Armenian schools for years. There, we study multilingual language based on native language. We teach Armenian, we teach our children, we teach English, we teach English. Students who study the native language are much easier to learn both the second language and the national language and the universal language. In this respect, these appointed teachers... let's hope that a constitution we'll make in the years to come can also be raised and appointed for teachers about languages that are living and trying to live in Turkey. A child who learns the native language... has seen the film Two Languages One Suitcase. There's nothing less pedagogy than a child who only speaks the native language facing a teacher who only speaks the national language. But that's what we're still going through in Turkey, 2015. A child who doesn't speak a word of Turkish and a teacher who doesn't speak a word of Kurdish. From that point on, we need to move to multilingual education based on the native language, and these appointed teachers need to be appointed in this framework as well. Of course, it's all a question of democracy, but we're too far away from it now, I'm afraid. Right now, we're still talking about education, safety issues, let alone education. The relevant articles, however -- 5/i of 12 articles -- are military expenditures, private, private, private regulations, war, Cyprus regulations. In this respect, not about these substances, but more about democratic substances, the things that promote democracy, the main language, the primary language-based education, the talks on these substances need to be held, and they need to be, of course, with laws that will address all matters, not in the bag of laws, but in the Constitution, of course, our democratic issues. Another flaw we see in matter -- like rentals -- is an ecology-based look; unfortunately, there isn't. Our nature continues to be devastated by the lack of this ecology-based view. These rentals, when we look at them, are still being passed on to NGOs, NGOs, without their opinions. In other words, it's about the Board of Higher Education. Like I said, custody agencies are still alive. We need a constitutional view to eliminate these custody laws, guardianship institutions, to improve our democracy in the coming period. I know, and we're a long way from that, and this House is a long way away because its will is largely based on a sign from the palace right now. But we can bring that perspective, we can bring the will here. As just now, these laws are supposed to come here, not with the bag of laws, but with an integrated look. In this respect, I would like the AKP Group and the CHP Group to look at the issues of democracy with such perspective. Again, I want 2016 to bring blessings to all of us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0418par0158	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. The second word for the groups is Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0419par0162	Mr. President, my dear friends, at this time of night, he's coming to a half hour, and it's hard to talk, but I'm going to try to talk to him, at least talk to him about the transcripts, about these issues in the future...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0420par0163	We're listening.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0419par0164	At least I said, of course you're listening, thank you. And those who wonder what has been said about these matters in the future should at least see that something is being said, something is being discussed. I have taken a pledge from my group on the second part of the Law Proposal, which is ranked 12. Dear friends, we have agreed on this proposal in the Plan and Budget Commission. Even though it was a bag of laws, we agreed, but he came here as a basic law, and my friends criticized him. Now, bringing in a bag of law as a basic law is actually not very ethical, it's not right, it's wrong. And in addition, most of these substances that bring burdens to the budget, materials related to equity rights, but they still needed to have an impact analysis. How much does it weigh in the budget, we should have known about it, about every substance, there's no such thing, there's such a flaw. We've just rejected a motion offered by the Minister of Labor, bringing about $10 billion to the budget, but we knew at least what kind of burden he was bringing there, and we don't know them here, we need to know. In fact, we know how much the budget is burdened or how much it relaxes on such laws. The second part consists of six articles, two of which are executive and executive clauses, which remain four. I'm looking at four articles: one about social benefits, social aid and solidarity, one about military service, private and private staff, one about occupational health and business safety, and one about the Ministry of National Education, and we're reassigning 12,500 teachers' staff. We're talking about different subjects, different areas of expertise, and about them at this time of night. We didn't talk on the commission -- like I said -- we didn't talk on the grounds that we were in a hurry, we didn't talk on the grounds that we should give something to our citizens, our employees, we did. Of course, there's no way it can be useful. You don't bring the impact analysis, we don't know what it's bringing in. A bag comes in as a law, comes in as a basic law, goes in a hurry, and then we redesign it to the law again and again. If the motion that the Ministry of Labor had just submitted had been accepted, it would have been the 68th interim clause. Last I said, it's been seven years since 5510 came out, it's been implemented for seven years, it's going to be the 68th interim in seven years, and it's already a 109-point law, 5510. There's no law enforcement like that, it's a load of crap. Now, let's start with the welfare and solidarity foundation. The charities that provide these benefits in all Turkey's districts and districts are being provided by staff. Think about it. Turkey is doing 20-25 billion dollars in social aid as a state, doing this social aid and solidarity foundation, making these staff, but these are not public personnel; these are -- based on the civil law, not public staff. We don't give such an important task, such as welfare, a very important public service to public staff, we don't give it to people with job guarantees, we just give it to the foundation employees; it's very wrong. They really need to be public staff, they need to be staffed, they need to be job security, they need to know their income, their expenses, they need to keep an eye on the citizen, and we need to be able to hand over social benefits to those who deserve it. Right now, there are multiples, we're giving them to the wrong people, a lot of them are wrong. That way, it actually saves a lot of money on welfare. They need to be put on staff, there's a big problem. These are the purposes set out in Law 3294, which is wrong. Another issue -- the second chapter -- is again, just a few years ago -- is about a law that we did last term, the Law on Health and Safety. We did it, we postponed it for a year, and now we're putting it off again, see, we're putting it off again. We're saying that if you take subcontractors, someone in the government will work as subcontractors, whatever job you're hired to do, if you're hired as a cleaner, you don't have to be a cleaner, you don't have to sit on a desk -- that's how it's done -- or you don't have to be employed for another job. We're putting this off for a year. For this to be done, a permit from the Finance Ministry or the Privatisation Administration must be granted according to 4734. If there's any public damage involved, he needs to be taken from the public manager, he needs to be held accountable, and we're putting it off. But it was an important law, a good arrangement, and unfortunately, we're also doing this second postponement, which is wrong. Another thing -- I've just stated -- is that we're putting in 12,500 teachers. Actually, there's a lot more, like 100,000 teachers that need to be increased, and that's missing. Another issue is the 8th article. We amplify their salaries by changing a clause in the Private and Private Law. But we didn't notice it at Plan and Budget Commission. As I was saying, we left at 3:00 a.m., the Commission met at 10:00 a.m., a technical issue, something we don't know about, no opinion from the relevant agencies. Now, look, here's what we're doing: if a private is getting $2,418, he's going to get $2,700 from the new system, so there's going to be very little increase. It's not exactly there... if, for example, he's getting $2.736, according to the current system, he's going to have to get $3,536 from the system that hasn't changed, because we're getting $2.901 from the new system that's being brought in. So according to the new system that's been brought in... it's very common for them to be brought in with an increase in minimum wage, and the system is being changed, and it's being reduced. It's impossible for us to say yes. It's impossible for you to say yes. It's impossible for privates and privates to say yes. This is the wrong job. And the reason why this is happening is because we need to give the petty officers more money this time, but we need to give it to the petty officers. Petty Officers, as I've just told you, the people who are suffering from the burden of the army, the people who are suffering, they must surely receive more money. Speaking of which, Mr. National Defence Minister -- Mr. National Defence Minister isn't here -- just now Lale Hajji asked a question in the first chapter of questions and answers, and he said: "How many soldiers were there in the capital, how many people did we withdraw?" Mr. Minister also told me other things, but he didn't answer this question, didn't say how many soldiers we had drawn. In fact, it's a topic that needs to be focused on because it's one of the most important setbacks that we've had while I was alive, the matter of the capital, it's something that we need to focus on and discuss. In Başika, you know, there was an attack by ISIS, four of our soldiers were injured, and the General Staff made a statement at that time. I've also been a minister's advisor at the Ministry of National Defense about 20 or 20 years ago, and I know a little bit about military matters. In a statement issued by the Chief of Staff, the statement states: "This attack has once again demonstrated the importance of unity security. " See, the Union has once again demonstrated the importance of security. We didn't want to go there. He says, that's Turkish for that, that's translation. A wrong job has been done. So the political authority forced you to go there, and there were problems. We have to be very careful with these. As I was saying, the capital is a defeat, the greatest corruption we've experienced in recent years, a great tribulation. We need to bring these things up and discuss them together. There are other matters related to Başika. When there was a very important issue between Iraq and Iran, we got in the way of Kerbala, when there was a great deal of trouble between them with border security, and we made things right between Iraq and Iran, and he did it at the wrong time. Again, there is much to be considered regarding the Archika, and if it comes to this, I will explain it with your permission. I bid everyone good night. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0421par0179	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal is now in charge of the National Movement Party Group. At the same time, Mr. Günal is required to speak on behalf of his own person; we will combine these two promises and have them used. Speech time is 15 minutes. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we warned -- I mean, when you talk about a group proposal -- that's not how the law works, but I see how troubled our law-making process is, as of now, when I look at the General Assembly. So let's keep going, let's not. Let's go ahead and talk about the department. The Minister is there, too, because they don't know. Now that there's no vote, our friends from the AKP Group are on their way home. So that's your justice. Look, our friends from MHP Group are waiting. So to save an hour here -- I'm telling my fellow group presidents -- you've gone from here to save us 40, 50 minutes, and now you do this injustice, and tomorrow you expect justice? So that's... we told you we'd talk tomorrow. We say it's not the basic law. It's okay. It's not him. Okay. We have a majority. After that, when we use minority rights, they rebel. Mr. Secretary is making a statement, well, in a manner of speaking, we have no objection to content, but the procedure has a way of working, Mr. Secretary. I mean, there's a way it works, we have to follow it. I told you. Look, there's Laws and Decisions in the back. When our friend, the head of the Department of Decisions of Laws, says, "No, it's not contrary, it's hurtful something, there's nothing in them." You don't fit in either. Well, we're telling you, you're not listening to him. I don't see how. Well, there are many of us, but that's not what it says in that book. So we sent him, and he came. Well, now, when that day is like this today, unfortunately, it doesn't work; it's a double standard. Now, how well he says it here, Mr. Minister says it, and so does our fellow public defenders: change the price of the military. Okay, so we all said the minimum wage would increase. In fact, yours is the lowest you've ever given. You did that with the pressure of the nation after we all said it.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0423par0189	Real... real...
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0190	I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll read you some other explanations here.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0424par0191	Don't waste your time!
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0192	Read Mr. Davutoglu's statements, read Mr. Davutoglu's statements before June's election, read what he said to the members of TÜSİAD.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0425par0193	You say it, we do it. We have a slogan. They talk, they make AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0194	It says: you sink... you sink... this minimum wage comes here. What are you guys doing, and why don't you stand up to it? Now, that's yesterday, that's today. It's not like that when it suits us. That's our problem. In this, we said in the materials, there are those who have no objection to its content, there are those who do. But we said to get this out in advance. The Minister is here. Well, let's bring in the regular fee and put it in. There's no such thing in this. He's been through the Council of Ministers before. There was no minimum wage when we passed through the Council of Ministers. So, where are the others? You have your signature because it came as a bill. I got a five-six-pointer, I got an offer, and I got another 20-point bill. Now, if you'll just sit down and tell us the truth, we've passed a lot of laws in the past. There's something in there about education, there's something about the Higher Education Act, but we're still doing it with more temporary substances. Mr. Secretary, your job is to be Minister of Labour and Social Security. We still haven't made a higher education plan in which group of professions, until 2023, in which area of expertise Turkey needs, in which field of engineering, and according to that, until 2053. I've been on the committee for eight years, my friends know.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0426par0200	How many teachers do he need, and how can they do that if they can't identify him?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0201	Now, we're not doing this, sir, it's temporary... now, which one are we going to do with temporary? We put it up to 72 years old.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0426par0202	How many teachers do we need in 14 years, a power that can't be determined, can it do that?
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0422par0203	Okay, fine, but let's figure out what's wrong with our teaching program. How many professors do we need in what field, how many students do we need to get in what area, and we need them to sit down with the Ministry of Industry and Technology, with the Minister of Labor, with the SEC, with the Minister of Education, with the Minister of Education, with the Minister of Development. We're still setting the agenda here with unnecessary debates. That's the summation of what we're saying. Teacher's staff, all right, let's give it to you. Can you fill it with the current graduates for what part of Turkey's teaching deficit? We're thinking about where those graduates are gonna go tomorrow, which area we got the extras, what kind of space we're in, what kind of work we're in. No. Why? We're the majority, all of them. You know, we come every time, at the end of the year, at the end of the semester, and there's another bag coming. This is all about sucking up and fixing what we're doing. We're wasting time. In E... now, without you putting basic education into something specific here, we've only covered the teacher's gap... (It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough again.) So we took the law out, we brought it in, we rushed it at the last minute. It doesn't work when you say it. We put it with him. We say, "Sir, here, it's about donating to national education." Well... it has to do with the agencies' companies. I just got off the phone with the guys, we're going back and forth. This includes EXPO 2016, including the Istanbul capital, the companies founded on the Eskişehir cultural capital. Well, now, we talked about it, you didn't listen. We're going. We're coming. We're still coming. We thought, "Don't touch the executive board inside, let him be the one to do it." There was a fight, we don't want that man. Now, we're limping into practice, looking to see if it'll catch up. There's a problem with countries. Why? We know when we make the law, because we are the majority. I mean, it's interesting... now, new friends don't know, so let me put it briefly. We have Antalya MPs, maybe they don't know all about it. Yeah, it's called the flower EXPO, Botany EXPO 2016, beautiful. We all said Antalya is important for Turkey's promotion, we're supportive. But until the Flower Exporters throw out their Union, Osman's the president there, he was the president then, he was the MP now. Well, we're saying that institutions are here, not individuals, but our friends are the head of that institution. If you make a mistake in making the law, then there are those flaws in the application. I don't like financa. We took out those institutions, and now we lack coordination. Why? Because they're the enforcement units. And now we're coming up, and we're saying: let's extend their money, extend the exemption of their companies. So we're dealing with a lot of things here that are unnecessary. Why? So we did 2015, because by then they're already going to be done, they're going to be done with the agencies, they're going to be done with the EXPO 2016, we'll be on the record, and by the end of 2015, Istanbul and Antalya will be finished. I mean, we didn't memorize this law when we put it in 2015. But now what? He didn't make it. Why? That's why it doesn't grow. So if you take into account the criticism that we make when we make the law, then we'll be fine. We say yes, but it's not enough, but it's not enough. It's not enough. It's not enough, it's not enough. I just looked at it again this morning, and the hunger limit was 1,380 liras, and we said 1,400 for it, 1,396, according to the calculations of that day. One company calculates it like that, one calculates it like that, and when we calculated it, it was $1,390 or so when we averaged two institutions. Now we've given 1,300, it'll be below the hunger line again. So it all makes sense. When we sit down and talk about it, yes, there may be problems with its cost, we meet them elsewhere, there's a part of business, there's incentives, there's sectoral priorities. When none of this is done, unfortunately, these problems continue. Again, of course, here are the arrangements for our soldiers, our specialists, the privates... and we have the right to their rights in our election statement. Again, in the same way, we have commitments to occupational health care regarding subcontractors. These things need to be done, but we're opposed to being compressed and extended by the end of the year. These need to be resolved permanently. In part, we discussed it with our friends on the commission. Let's extend it one last time to 2016, and there are some issues in the government's action programme, including the action plan, which is also in the government programme. I don't know how many times I've told you, I'm going to run the report, and then it's going to come out. We're talking about this at this time of night, but it's like, talk, talk, it's useless. Some of your friends are out there, and others are talking among themselves. We say once again that if it goes this way, we will get a very productive result from this era of legislation. We'll say it's a blessing -- 2016 is coming, 2015 is ending -- we're all saying good luck, but we have to learn a lesson to make it good. I mean, would history repeat itself if it had been learned? - Yesterday, we all remember ourselves here in good faith - Mehmet Akif Ersoy. History repeats itself, but it doesn't repeat itself. I hope you will take this class in these last days of 2015 and reduce the repeats in 2016. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0427par0215	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Last word on behalf of individuals, Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın... Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0428par0220	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a personal pledge on the 12th row of the Law Proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly with love and respect. On the 79th anniversary of our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoyu's death, we remember and cherish. The policy of our government is that our universities are founded on the understanding of a university in every province and need experienced academic staff. Today there are 109 public universities in Turkey, 84 foundation universities, and 193 universities in Turkey. Basically, retirement of university professors at the age of 67 is an obstacle to the scientific development of our country. In developed countries, university pension age is higher than our country. For example, Professor St. Sancar Hodja received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry at the age of 69. In Turkish republics, in countries like Romania, there are no pension age restrictions for university teachers. With this temporary clause, our newly established universities have received an important share in meeting the needs of a professor. As of 15/12/2015, 133 professors serve as part of this article. These professors, who will be 72 years old, will be retired as of January 1, 2016. After 2006, 41 of the students serving at our developing state university will be retired due to the 72-year-old state. To avoid this situation, with this arrangement, it would be appropriate to ensure that the 72-year-old limit of new universities will continue until the infrastructure is reinforced for the faculty. We also increased the allowance for private, private and military students through the bill. The retirement degrees of petty officers who graduated before 2003 have been improved by raising from 2 to 1st degree. The National Ministry of Education will employ 12,500 teachers. Again, donations continued by the Social Welfare Foundation to grant scholarships to university students have been extended to the end of 31/12/2016. We care that these things come to life and that our citizens take advantage of new opportunities as soon as possible. I wish you all the blessings and respect for this proposed bill of law.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit05spe0429par0230	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-12-29sit06spe0429par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal Number 12 Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (December 30, 2015) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (December 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
