tbmm-2015-06-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 25th term of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 2nd Union. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. According to our constitution, MPs must take an oath before they begin their work. Now, I would like to call the lawmakers, who have not sworn an oath in the past merger, to the stand to swear an oath in this merger. Congressmans, the presidency has a statement saying that the resignation of the Council of Ministers has been accepted, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The resignation of the Council of Ministers has been accepted under Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Until the new government is formed, I'd like to inform you that the Council of Ministers has been asked to continue in office. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It has been presented to your knowledge. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. According to our agenda, we will choose the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are motions to run for president, and I'm putting it through the application order: Turkey's Grand National Assembly to the Presidential Court I am running for President of the 25th-century Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with Articles 10 of the Constitution's 94th and Parliamentary Council, I demand that it be carried out. Yours truly. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly to the Presidential Court We nominate Mr Ekmeleddin Mehmet Ihsanoglu, the Istanbul MP for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 25th term. In accordance with Articles 10 of the Constitution's 94th and Parliamentary Council, we demand that it be carried out. Yours truly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 10 of the Constitution's 94th, TBMI Council, we nominate Antalya MP Deniz Baykal in the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We demand and demand what we need. Alif Doğan Türkmen Didem Engin Uğur Bayraktutan Erdoğan Earth Hayati Tekin Mahmut Tanal [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the 94th and 10th Amendment of the Constitution, we will submit and propose the candidacy of Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Firat as candidate for the first half of the 25th term. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to run for president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the first quarter of the 25th term under Article 10 of the 94th and 10th Amendment of the Constitution. With all due respect, I do. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 94, and Article 10 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey, the first quarter of the period 25 is the nomination and the candidacy of Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz, as chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect. Ahmet Aydın Mahir Ünal Mehmet Naci Bostancı [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It has been presented to your knowledge. I read the candidate names for Parliamentary Presidency as they appear on the sealed ballot according to alphabetical order of the electoral circles: Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Candidate List: [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat [[Mersin]] [[Sivas]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. In order to be elected president in the first two votes, at least two-thirds of members -- at least 367 votes -- the only majority of members in the third vote -- will be sought out, at least 276 votes -- if the third vote cannot be reached, the fourth vote will be held for the two candidates who have won the most votes and the most votes in the fourth vote will be elected president. I propose how the secret vote will be held: from the commission and the government, from the clerk members of the commission, from Adana to Denizli -- including Denizli -- and from Diyarbakir to İstanbul -- including Istanbul -- the clerk members from İzmir to Mardin, from Marchin to Mersin to Zonguldak to Zonguldak -- will give the letter of a sealed ballot to the MP, and will sign the name of the MP from the law. The MP who will use the vote will enter the voting booth after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, whichever candidates on the ballot will vote for, mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign and place the ballot in the envelope in the cabin, and then throw it in the ballots placed in front of the Presidential Court stand. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I would like to point out that when voting, only the square in front of one of the candidates will be marked, that the ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalidated. The cabins are put in the same colorless pens, and the members will use these pens. In any case, the vote will be invalidated, such as any sign, signature, scribble, or use a colored pen other than the pens in the cabins. The current ballot will carry no sign except the preferred cross sign. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Sealed ballots and envelopes will be delivered to the members of the clerks. Seal ballots and envelopes will be delivered to the members of the clerks. Congressmans, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn up for the count and transcript of the vote. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. I'd like to ask the clerks to do the voting. Kamil Aydın, Erzurum? Here. Metin Steel, Kastamon? Here. Sprinkle Cloud, Elazig? Here. Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep? Here. Mehmet Yüksel, Denizli? Here. At the end of the voting process, these dear friends of mine will serve as the commission for the collection. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Mehmet Yüksel, Denizli MP; Sepil Bulut, Elaziğ MP; Kamil Aydın, Erzurum MP; Mehmet Gökdağ, Gaziantep MP; Metin Çelik, Kastamon MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's election for President of the Grand National Assembly (1) 545 members participated in the round, the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Mehmet Yüksel Srpil Bulut Kamil Aydın Antalya MP Deniz Baykal :125 İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu :81 Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat :81 Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz :256 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not have a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. Members of parliament, we will now begin the second vote in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote will also call for two-thirds of the total number of members, 367 votes. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first vote. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm detecting a five-man Commission by taking names for the count and transcript of the vote. The members of the Commission will take their place in the ranks of the Commission after the vote is completed. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Lütfiye Selva Çam, Ankara? Here. Reşat Petek, Burdur? Here. Faruk Çaturoğlu, Zonguldak... is he here? Faruk Çaturoğlu, Zonguldak... will our friend be able to join the Commission for Accounting? Faruk Çaturoğlu... this is the third time I've called. It's obvious he hasn't been found. Mehmet Babaoğlu? He'll be here. Thank you. Didem Engin? He'll be here. Thank you. These friends of ours will serve after the second vote as the Commission for Accounting. Congressmans, please submit envelopes and sealed ballots for the second vote to the clerk members. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? The voting process is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Lütfiye Selva Çam, Ankara MP; Reşat Petek, Burdur MP; Didem Engin, İstanbul MP; Mehmet Babaoğlu, Konya MP; Ali Öz, Mersin MP. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's election for President of the Grand National Assembly (2) 545 members participated in the round, the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Lütfiye Selva Pine Reşat Petek Didem Engin Antalya MP Deniz Baykal : 128 İstanbul MP Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu : 80 Mersin MP Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat : 80 Sivas MP Ismet Yilmaz : 256 Members of the Parliament Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not have a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. Under the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Wednesday (July 1st 2015) to hold the 3rd and 4th round of Turkey's election as president of the Grand National Assembly. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
