tbmm-2015-03-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Due to a technical malfunction, I'm going to have to take a 20-minute break from the merger, and we're going to start again after the system is fixed. I'm gonna have to do an open-and-shut. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0001par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP, who wants to talk about terrorist attacks at universities. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the recent outbreaks of terror in the universities. I salute you all. Dear MPs, on Friday (February 20, 2015) were killed on Friday (February 20, 2015) in İzmir, Ege University campus, a student of the History Department of Literature, our country's brother Fırat Yılmaz Çakıroğlu, who was attacked by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists. I ask God's mercy to Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, and ask patience for his family, his friends, and our community. The incident is an open attack by the separatist terrorist group PKK. This raises strong suspicion that the terrorist organization and some of the security and intelligence agencies under the administration are a jointly collaborative environment and a conspiracy. These conspiracies are as concrete as they were in the past, and there are examples. The purpose of these plots is to lure the archipelago into a street fight. Because of AKP's opening policy, the terrorist on the mountain is now terrorizing cities and universities. AKP power condones PKK's activities. By writing a petition to the President of the University of Ege, our brother Firat stated that PKK people, who were not most university students, came to the university and threatened them and demanded that the necessary security measures be taken. With what face does the chancellor still sit in his seat, who disregards our brother's petition and does not provide security at the university? Doesn't the president have a responsibility? The Dean of Literature has no responsibility when the faculty corridors are being turned into a Kandil cave? Can we consider the security of Fırat, the security of the school, the security of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) against the open threats? The officers who left Fırat wounded for forty-five minutes did not observe their legal duties, but committed crimes. What mind, what conscience is it to leave a wounded and bleeding person in the middle? Where is the ill-advised governor who almost let the city become a PKK base? What's the Home Secretary doing, who's asking the terrorist organization for public safety? Doesn't it bother the Minister of Health that the ambulance called for Firat is 45 minutes late, that the ambulance is delayed to pick up the wounded? It is not possible to imagine that they have no responsibility for the martyrdom of Fırat. However, today is the 20th day, and we have not received any notice of resignation or any sign of responsibility from any of those count. Aren't you bothered by the existence of such a corrupt government, morally and conscientiously? Our universities are made the base of separatist militants who have passed PKK's mountain education. There is no freedom of learning or safety left. The political power that encourages the separatist terrorist by saying the process of solution is the main responsibility of this betrayal. I warn the government that the government must rid the universities of terror. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of National Education, must quickly demonstrate the will to fight these terrorist organizations at universities. A contrary situation would cause security, democracy, freedom, education and the right to live in our country to get out of hand. A dirty game is being played on our young people. The AKP-PKK partnership causes our young people to lose their lives in universities. The government's table in İmralya and Kandil. Together, their plot against the Turkish nation is the author of these murders. The university administration, Security Directorate, the National Intelligence Agency and the governor, particularly the chancellor and dean of the University of Aegean, also have a share in all of these provocations. As a result, the AKP-PKK partnership threatens Turkish youth; the AKP-PK partnership ignores human values and ignores the blessings of human life. This cooperation is a threat to security, democracy, freedom, education, and the right to live. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mr. Hüseyin Aygün, the Tucson MP who asked for a statement on justice in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0004par0030	Mr. President, thank you very much. The story of Berkin Else, who had been murdered six hundred and thirty-six days ago, who had gained 16 kilos from the hospital where he had gained 100 pounds, could be shown as a single case of the humiliation of justice. Other than the cases of our brothers, Ali Ismail, Ethem Sarısülük, who have cost public opinion in cases involving 30 people who have been injured, whose eyes have been killed, and who have been killed by nine people, the prosecutors who have taken over these cases have not done anything so far. So the mother of Berkin Havan, who came to this assembly, said: "O Allah, what has happened to my child, let it happen to you, Recep Erdogan, to your child. This is what happens when justice is not done; when there is no justice, blood feuds, primitive vengeance law, and private initiatives targeting the police who shot their own child may come to the agenda. Four cops have been identified in this file. And ten months after the investigation began, the prosecutor, who was able to get testimony from his parents, wrote countless times to İstanbul Security Directorate for these four police officers; Istanbul Police has not responded to his latest article in exactly five months. I think that these four policemen are probably in ISIS. They disappeared into thin air, and the Istanbul Police don't know where they are. I know who they are because there's the National Criminal Bureau, and they've been identified, but it's not appropriate for me to explain. If there is a state, if there is a judgment, they should go, why they shot Berkin in the head, why they killed a 14-year-old boy, if there is such a thing as judgment. There's no such thing as judgment, that's the point. Five prosecutors have changed in this case so far. One prosecutor didn't do anything for four months. He's got the file, he's not interviewing lawyers, he's not interviewing parents, he's not interviewing the police department, he's not doing anything. I mean, what kind of profession is this D.A.? Really, isn't it a little shameless, that you don't do anything in a five-month file on a murdered child? Of course, I understand why prosecutors don't see each other, and they don't see each other for this: I gave the order. That's why they take care of it, so they keep quiet, so they don't feel uncomfortable, they don't do anything, they don't do anything. Part of the prosecutors, by the way, was parallel, the AKP said, moved them around, and that's amazing. The prosecutors who've already done nothing... we've replaced five prosecutors so far. Friends, the 1st anniversary of today has been a year since the death of the child, March 11, 2014. And my condolences for Firat. I was truly sorry, and I took care of his suffering when he was killed, and I will tell you right away, our brother in the Aegean. There's a law enforcement organization that hasn't done anything in over a year, and this 1st year memorial is being attacked by the Police Organization again today. Police attacked the protests and memorials of Berkin Elvan in İstanbul Çekmeköy, Gezi Park, in this city, in Ankara Tuzluçayir. Is that justice, for God's sake? I mean, any citizen -- I'm not saying they're friends of his mother's in Salty -- can anyone, an ordinary person sitting in his house trust such a state? Is that the kind of government that doesn't hear the victims' voices in any way? They're still keeping Turkey's agenda busy with lies about what they've done to someone in Kabataş. There's a 14-year-old kid, dead. If there's any conscience -- I've given up justice, responsibility, legal duty, he doesn't exist anyway, so there's no regime, but -- there's got to be a step forward. The fact that this issue doesn't grow any more, that it doesn't cause waves of hatred and hatred, that violence doesn't revenant... Look, injustice threatens justice everywhere, and injustice to one person destroys justice everywhere. This is happening throughout the world. Unsubstantiated justice opens the door to new crimes, world history proves it. Say no more, it's a very emotional day. I'd like to say hello to Berkin with a poem by my brother Abbas Karakaya. I was going to land slowly in the snow garden Death would have found me, but... I was my mother's butterfly with purple wings. That was a short breath, my dear. That morning I went out to buy bread A thousand years of red man's blood I've seen them spill and I've seen mine red My eyes can't find the light without you. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0005par0056	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk, who wants to talk about rising racism and Islamphobia in Europe and the Austrian Islamic law. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0006par0061	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to foreign hostility and Islamophobia in Europe. I salute you all with love. In the 1st year of our brother's death, and in the year of his death, both Firat Çakıroğlu and Berkin Elvan, I express my condolences and condolences on the family of our child, and I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin, I would like to share with you an interesting incident that took place at both Brussels Airport and Strasbourg Airport last night, and an issue that identified the point of Europe's arrival. In order to attend meetings in the Strasbourg Parliament... the EC PARTI Brussels Office Vice President Asiye Bilgin Ma'am was forced to open her head when she passed security checks at Brussels Airport before boarding... and the police refused to open her head against her resistance. Then, on the way to the end of the work in Parliament and to return to Brussels, Strasbourg Airport went a step further than it had lived in Brussels, and the police forced Asiye Scholar Ma'am to take off her top. Asiye Scholar Ma'am, I am a Muslim woman and I cannot take off my clothes, so if there is a cabin, please make your calls in the cabin. Despite what he said, a second policeman has come and raised the degree of verbal violence, challengingly, this Strasbourg, you will do what we say here. We condemn the French police for that attitude. We invite the French authorities to apologize to the Lady of Asiye and to Turkey for this attitude. What does the attitude of the French police mean? This attitude of the French police is foreign hostility. Islamophobia is the point where the hatred of religion comes. What is this? Europe claims that its values are global, and its values remain in the local classroom. The lack of insincereness of values that Europe claims to be its own means of recent racist attacks in last night and in Europe would be bankrupt on the basis of alien hostility. Look, after the Charlie Hebdo attack, I'd like to share with you a picture of what racist attacks, foreign hostility, a window, and a burned version of it. The victim of a Neonazi attack on New Year's Eve, but thankfully, our child, who was injured in a Neonazi attack, when we were family together near Stuttgart. This is another mosque fire. This is the sign of a swastika in our mosques in Europe, where Europe comes from. This is the final point of growing hostility to the headscarf in Europe. This is Europe's bankruptation of concepts such as freedom of faith, democracy, freedom, people's religious places in mosques. This is a picture of a European police treating a Turkish teenager. This is the state of a mosque. With these, I would like to point out that especially with the Islamic law in Austria, there are efforts to limit Turkey in Europe. Europe has a laboratory study in particular with Austrian law and Turkey's efforts to block steps to see the religious services of its citizens in Europe. In this sense, I invite Europe to be sincere, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0007par0069	Thank you, Mr. Ashy. I've got more than one call from my group of vice presidents. There's water cups here, we drink a little, stay, spill. About water, whether it is given to animals, whether it is watered by flowers, or what it is done, or what it is done, or what is left of it, that it should be stored somewhere, it is a pity, it is a sin. I don't know what to do, I wanted to share.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0008par0073	One-man pad can be put in a cup.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0009par0074	You have to drink it all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0007par0075	No, that's not what I'm talking about. I mean, he's barely drunk, he's falling apart, and I don't want any of this... There's a demand for more than one person to be used for animal shelters or for watering flowers and so on. I wanted to share it with you. Yes, now, I'll make a promise according to the 60th article. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0010par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The great master Nazim Hikmet wrote in 1956 that he would not grow up dead children. It's the first time I've seen the great master go wrong because Berkin Elvan is growing and growing every day. Dear friends, staffing at the Ministry of National Education knows no limits. The branch managers of the National Ministry of Education have been recruited as branch managers, 434 people, as individual branch managers, so they have been suspended. Later, they brought their own men, AKP's supporters, with the name of restructuring, and put them here. Later, they appointed the victims assigned to the staff of personal educational experts and severely reduced their rights. As their rights went, so did their knowledge, and not just these people, but our country, too. The empty 426 branch managers have to be filled with these savings immediately, I thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0011par0083	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0012par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. I've told him over and over again that there is a lack of staff in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, and that there is a shortage of jobs, not with licenses, rights and rights, but with political merits, or if he doesn't know anything, just with us. Here are the papers, the dates, the numbers. A farmer in our Bayat district demands a breeding calf from TIGEM, the response says that the allocation has been made, and the allocation of the breeder calf, the number of male calves, the amount of time, and the amount of time that he will surrender, and even the operation. It's beautiful. Our farmer rejoices, but someone comes in, and the fax came in the next day, saying that this allocation was given to him. Such practices and these documents show that either unemployable staffs are at work or they're operating according to their man. I wonder which one, our citizen is curious. My respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0013par0088	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, branch managers and school administrators serving under the National Ministry of Education have been dismissed ahead of the 2014-2015 school year and have been put under the orders of the state schools and institutions as a result of the appointing of fellow executives in accordance with the wishes of the AKP's aide union. Overnight, branch managers and school principals and vice principals have applied to the judiciary to seek their rights, many of whom have decided to stop the execution or extradite from the relevant courts, unfortunately they have not been returned to office until now. I call on the Minister of National Education, who disregards the state's institutions and the decisions of the judicial bodies with this unlawful attitude, to immediately call on these victims to be eliminated and warn them. I thank you, too.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0015par0093	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0016par0095	Mr. President, the AKP's wrong economic policies and the President's ill-advised statements are over $2.60. The government declared the national income at $10,971 per million -- let's say that's true -- in the last two months there's been a $2,200 drop per person, per dollar per dollar, with a 20 per cent increase in dollars against our money. The public's debt rose from 6 quadrillion to 350 quadrillion; the bankrupt consumer loans increased by 127 times, credit card debt by 24 times; the public's operational debt exceeds 22 quadrillion. The unknowing will speak, the people will be poor. This is unacceptable. As the National Movement Party, I remind all government officials, especially the President, to leave the economy to those who know, that their silence is better than their speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0017par0099	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0018par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. President Erdoğan does not feel bound by the Constitution, the law or any rules; he does politics, engages in polemics with opposition leaders, organises rallies and asks the citizen for 400 deputies for the AKP. Former Interior Minister Efkan Ala has stated that he does not recognise the Constitution he has sworn on. It is not clear what Constitution they are positioning themselves according to. AKP MP candidate Hakan Fidan is a member of the AKP. It must have been wrong for such a person to become head of a national strategy agency such as the MIT after he withdrew from the nomination. As you can see, the President who violated the Constitution has officially been transformed into a police state with the law enforcement force of the AKP (AKP). The AKP is guilty of referring to democracy, the Constitution, and the legal state, and will be tried. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0019par0105	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0020par0107	An attack was carried out on the Women's Day of the 8th March. I'd like to invite the authorities to find out who was responsible for the attack on our women's football team. Secondly, we've been interviewing the Homeland Security package here for about twenty-two days. It's not a package for the good of the nation, it's just a package for protecting individuals. During the time we go to these elections, our nation has serious problems; subcontractors expect solutions to their problems, from non-assigned teachers to engineers, our farmer, our tradesman, BUG-KUR, all parts have serious problems. I've been inviting the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly to participate in legislatures that can address our nation's problems in the process of elections, rather than making special laws for the individual for the past twenty-two days.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0019par0109	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0021par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. A year after his death, I honor my beloved Berkin Elvin. In Turkey, it's called the plain of cancer. It's called Dilova. There's a new environmental massacre. The five organised industrial districts of Dilovasi are a recent solid waste storage facility, a site of environmental massacres with coal OSB. The average rate of cancer in Turkey is 21 per cent, around 32 per cent in Dilova. Now, the Alexandria Metropolitan Municipality is trying to build a solid waste storage and disposal plant on over 1,500,000 square metres of forest land above Dilova. A municipality with no green areas, no playgrounds, no social utensils; cinema, theatre, art, cultural centers -- for some reason -- is trying to leave people here to die. I'm warning the authorities. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0022par0116	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0023par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. I too want to remember our 14 - year - old child, Berkin Jonan, who left a year ago. As he went to buy bread in front of his house as a child of a family of workers in Okmeydanı, he was shot with a gas flare by police who wanted to suppress the Gezi resistance, and resisted for two hundred and sixty-nine days, and was finally sent to eternity with a funeral attended by millions. The President associated terror with all his cruelty, Berkin. He did not hesitate to boo his beloved mother in the squares, and Berkin Elton became a symbol of the eight young men who were killed in the Travel. In other words, those marbles that he played were also a symbol of the public resistance in Gezil, and were the basis for the internal security law that we are now discussing. The case is being dragged, 18 police have been deposed, but it hasn't been opened yet. Therefore, let the murderers and the instigators be punished. May justice, brotherhood, and peace be granted to his beloved family. We honor him. Greetings to you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0024par0127	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0025par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Between 2012 and 2013, beekeepers, particularly between Tarsus and Hatay, suffered a huge loss. On the sixth and seventh days of March 2015, another intense bee poisoning occurred in the Mediterranean region - especially in this area. The county has found bees poisoned by pesticides, and no aid has been made, only interest on bank loans delayed by the government's law. But let's not forget that the vast majority of beekeepers don't have a decent savings to mortgage to get loans from banks. Thus, the victims of these beekeepers must be provided with direct and hand-to-hand support. He invites the government and especially the Ministry of Agriculture to be sensitive at this point, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0024par0131	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0026par0133	Mr. President, this government is afraid of Berkin Elton, who died at the age of 14, and is afraid of the marbles that Berkin Else is using. This government shows once again how scared he is by including the marbles that all children use in their games in the domestic security package. Fearing berkin elvan, the government does not even allow the pain of Berkin evvan....to be experienced according to Turkish customs, customs, and customs. While it is possible to reduce a mourning, the police distribute thousands of people today on the 1st anniversary of Berkin's death, with ways that add more grief, and more pain, are trying to distribute gas bombs and pressure water. Fear doesn't help at all. Mr. President, is it just Berkin Elvan? Do you know that in the community that wanted to remember the young people who died in Uludere, a member of the Union had attached his card to his collar? Why? For making yourself look like a public servant. So, once again, we see why, today, a state understanding of seven young people who wanted to introduce the masses gathered there, to take them to the cemetery organized, disciplined, and only 34 young people who are suing for regular mention of them can't stand Berkin Jon. Berkin Elton is immortal, he will live, but those who slay him will surely pay the ultimate price in front of history sooner or later.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0024par0135	Thank you. Mr. Selfwave.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0027par0138	Thank you. A sign of bankrupt Middle Eastern politics is that our relations with Egypt have been completely reset. The AKP says it was a coup in Egypt, and we are against coups and coups. Just south of Egypt, there was a military coup in Sudan, and Colonel Omar Bashir overpowered the government that had been elected, and set up a much more bloody regime than in Egypt. Erdogan and Davutoglu never criticised the coupkers in Sudan; rather, they became the closest friends of the coupger Colonel Bashir. Why this discrepancy? Because in Sudan, Colonel Besir brought down a secular government, and replaced it with an Islamist regime; and in Egypt, General Sisi, the Muslim Brotherhood of Islam, brought down his rule. So the AKP supports the coup if Islamists do it, and the coup opposes it if it is done to overthrow an Islamist power. Here, AKP's foreign policy is based on such a cheap and unhealthy mentality. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0028par0141	Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0029par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't bring myself to mention it because I was running out of time while I was talking off the agenda earlier. Today, at the same time, in the prime of his life, the 1st anniversary of the death of the boy who was killed by a gas capsule at 14 years of age. I pray for the mercy of Berkin Elishan, and of all our sad, innocent children who have lost their lives, and I especially remind and invite the government to do its duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0030par0146	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0031par0148	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I, as the People's Democratic Party, honor all our murdered children once again in the presence of Berkin Elvan. Today is the 1st anniversary of the 15th death of the beloved Berkin Elton, who died at the age of 15 after two hundred and sixty-nine days in a coma when a policeman fired a gas flare at his head during his travel actions in Okmeydanı. Berkin weighed 100 pounds when he was shot, dropped to 16 kilos while resisting death, and hundreds of thousands gathered together, and sent him away to eternity. Sadly, the killers of Berkin Elisha were still not found and were not judged. Thus, the killers of all our children must be found, judged, and punished immediately. I, Berkin, once again, honor all of our children who have been slaughtered and express that he is immortal, that his little heart lives in our hearts, and I offer our condolences to his family once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0032par0154	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, 37 million boxes of antidepressants were consumed in just one year. In the last nine years, antidepressants have increased by 160 percent to a record level. The increase in the use of antidepressants is also observed as a factor in the ability of unprofessional doctors to prescribe them. We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code to be carried out and taken into action. [[Şırnak]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] There's no doubt that mental illness affects more and more people around the world every year. Of course, Turkey is not exempt. The World Health Organization also estimates that depression would be the second major disease that threatened our lives after heart disease in the 2020s. Of course, we find that the conditions of life and the decaying human relationships are increasing mental distress every day, but we also need to keep in mind that their diagnosis is becoming more and more comfortable. Drug use in Turkey has shown a huge increase every year, while the use of antidepressants -- a major part of these increases -- has been determined by numbers that have risen year after year. In 2003, 14 million cases of antidepressants were used, while in 2008 there were 31 million, 302 thousand, 34 million, and 36,880,000 cases of antidepressants in 2010. This could be interpreted as almost half the population using antidepressants. According to reports from the World Health Organization on depression, one of the five people in society are expected to suffer from depression, and the depression that caused the most workforce loss in 2020 will be depression, according to reports of family physicians, practitioners, psychiatrists, and neurologists. Depression is seen at a rate of about 15 to 25 percent. In developed countries, it is estimated to reach 30 per cent, while in Turkey it is estimated to be 20 to 25 per cent. These high rates are quite noticeable. According to the World Health Organization's data, 1 in 5 people in the community are expected to suffer from lifetime depression. In women, the risk is twice as high as the men, and in studies, it also appears. In recent years, concerns have been evident, especially in public and in some scientific circles, about unnecessary use of psychiatric drugs and the increase in antidepressants consumption. The basis of this concern is evident that 34 million boxes of antidepressants sold in Turkey in 2010. Almost half of Turkey uses antidepressants. Studies in our country have said that poisoning with antidepressants has a significant 14.5% rate, which is explained by the fact that high levels of antidepressants in our country can easily be taken from pharmacies without prescriptions. More and more prescriptions of antidepressants have been prescribed in recent years, suggesting that the high of suicide rates in the adult age group could be explained by the fact that most drugs cost very little. Most of the antidepressants and antipsychotic drugs can be provided from pharmacies without prescriptions. There are many problems with easily prescribed antidepressants and antipsychotics by non-psychiatry physicians. Or many people who don't need medication are on psychiatric drugs. Turkey is one of the rare countries in the world where medicine can be bought without prescriptions. Antidepressants promote both suicidal and violent tendencies. In Turkey today, they are subject to no control. Everyone has heavy antidepressants in their pockets. Because such antidepressants are easily provided, humans can harm themselves and those around them by taking these medications even in the slightest inconvenience. Therefore, the research commission is useful for research and prevention of the increase in supply and use of antidepressants. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey did not set up a National Prevention Mechanism for preventing torture on the national level in accordance with the United Nations (UN) Contract Against Torture Protocol. Turkey has also been criticised in the 2012 Progress Report of my European Commission. The 2012 Progress Report noted that law enforcement officers in particular continue to use force in informal detention centres, and it noted that investigations into torture and abuse have been carried out slowly by judicial units, although the opposition claims of security forces have been given priority. In this context, we provide the reasons why the national prevention mechanism for the fight against torture is not established; why investigations into torture and abuse are slow by judicial units; why complaints about law enforcement are not taken into consideration; how the person who complains about law enforcement is being accused; how the policy is being implemented in order not to be punished for torture and abuse of individual rights demands; and why the law enforcement forces are being subjected to torture and abuse. 08/11/2012 With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Bolu]] 5) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Let's go.]] The Act No. 6167 was adopted on March 12, 2011, when Turkey signed the United Nations (UN) Subsection Protocol (OPCAT) Against Torture (OPCAT). Turkey is obliged to recognise regular and unannounced visitation authority to the detention sites of the Subcommittee for the Protection of Torture and to establish a national prevention mechanism in accordance with the Select Protocol to prevent torture on the national level within a year at the latest. However, despite such an obligation, on October 27, 2012, the latest year of the OPCAT requirement was not established on October 27, 2012, a national prevention mechanism for preventing torture on a national level. Turkey has also been criticised in the European Commission's 2012 Progress Report. The 2012 Progress Report pointed out that law enforcement officers have continued to use force especially in unofficial detention centers. It has also been noted that investigations into torture and abuse have been conducted slowly by judicial units, but the opposition claims of the security forces are a priority. According to the Security Directorate's data, only two of the 309 security officers who were investigated under torture crimes between February 2005 and June 2010 were punished. Five people were killed in custody in 2011. 15 people were injured by torture and abuse in primary school or secondary school, while 228 were injured by the torture or abuse of law enforcement forces. In the same year, 41 people were killed in prisons, while 128 others were injured. In the first four months of 2012, 281 people were subjected to torture and abuse. The reasons why the national prevention mechanism for fighting torture is not established, why the investigations into torture and abuse are slow by judicial units, why complaints about law enforcement are not taken into account, how the person who complains about law enforcement is the victim, how he has been reduced to the position of the accused, and why the policies are being implemented in order to ensure that the law enforcement forces are not punished for torture and abuse against individual rights demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the abuse, business accidents and related diseases caused by children who work for reasons that drive them to work, and to ensure the safety of working children back to school, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under the articles of our Constitution, the 98th, the 104th and 105th Parliamentary Charter of Turkey. [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Sakarya]] [[Inconceived]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 12) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] "The concept of child labor is described as being individuals who have reached the age of 14 in our country, who have not had a day of age and have not yet reached adulthood, but has been overwhelmed with social and economic obligations; children who work in the streets, hard working conditions and risky professional groups, whose education is inevitably pushed to second place. In Turkey, where more than 600,000 children work as heavy workers, the issue of child labor is one of the problem areas of child health and education and non-registered employment, according to Turkish Statistics Agency 2006 Children's Workforce Survey data. Child labor is based on a number of social and economic reasons, including inequality in income distribution, extreme population growth, intensive migration from rural to city, congestions in the educational system, limited employment opportunities, insufficient social awareness, lack of education in families. The main reason for child labor is shown as poverty, the family's lack of sufficient funds and especially the lack of families to pay for school expenses, or the loss of income from the family due to the loss of the child's employment is considered to be the main reason for the child's leaving school. Children work in the urban sector as seasonal workers or free family workers in the agricultural sector, while in rural areas, they vary according to business and seasons, even on the street under the influence of industrial, trade and service; in rural areas. In the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, signed by Turkey in 1990, every human being is considered a child until the age of 18. In line with the employment age and vocational training that the government has reduced to 4+4+4 education systems, it can easily be said that in the future the cheap labour necessary for the employer will be provided from child laborers. It should not be forgotten that children who lack family care, care, and protection may be sexually abused or may be addicted to drugs. The overall purpose of the study is to assess the number of child workers, one of the problematic areas of working life, and to examine the reasons why children's education should be pushed to second place. 1- Identifying the reasons and family structures that push child laborers into working life, 2- To determine the living conditions of child workers, education and health levels, 3- To determine the number of child workers who work off the books and work on the books, 4- To determine the number of children who have been injured, sick and lost their lives and the causes of the incidents, 5- In the social rights of child workers and in the process of searching for rights to determine the level of information for themselves and their families, 6- To identify child laborers who have been sexually abused and are addicted to drugs, 7- To determine the level of awareness of society in the growing number of child workers who are forced to leave school every day. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Under Article 58 of the Civil Code, there is a request for correction. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0033par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. I have stated in the previous talks yesterday that the administration was responsible for the legislation, this Central Bank, about the interest board. The government must answer to the living, something is wrong, the government is answering to the president's office. And I said that the operation in this situation made the dollar jump, and that's where I said, if you don't know how to live, you didn't give it to Murtaza the Keeper, or you didn't give it to Murtaza. I used a phrase like that. I want this removed. ▪ The government is responsible for the living. Therefore, the government must answer to the law. I am correcting it. Again, on the motion as we spoke yesterday, I asked the Deputy President of the AK PARTY Group if there was a JITEM? Because it's in the courts, it's everywhere. And then, Mr. Hawk, who's in charge of the Commission, tell me, what is JITEM doing in the deep state structure? I demand to be corrected as Mr. Idris Sahin (x) in order to avoid any confusion because there are other Hawks. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0034par0330	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (11/03/2015), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 17 December 2012, Kars MP İstiye was given 2143 rows by Birtane and his friends (2143 rows no. lu) A parliamentary survey motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the causes of women's unemployment has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in the presentations on Wednesday (11/03/2015), and co-organised in the same date of talks. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Kars MP Mr. Property One. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0035par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin my talk, I once again remember Berkin Elton, and the children who were murdered before and after him, and wish that there would be no more such suffering. Dear lawmakers, another area in Turkey where women are victimised is women's employment, which is far behind men's rights and freedoms in every aspect of life. I have made a commitment to our motion to investigate the reasons for women's unemployment and the measures needed to be taken to investigate employment. I salute you all. Today, women's labor in capitalistic production relationships is in a very bad position, and it remains on the agenda as the cheapest labor force. Intense exploitation relationships not only add the woman's labour to capital, but also restore social gender roles. Governments around the world prioritize capital to increase women's employment and enforce flexible employment styles through some solutions. As a matter of fact, millions of women in Turkey and the world are working as modern slaves for low wages, unsecured and unorganised, or as much as that. Mr. President, the women's position, access to education, participation in social life, as well as representational data in administrative and administrative levels, is very clear in their employment figures. According to the World Economic Forum's 2011 report on the equality of women and women in politics, education, health care and so on, Turkey ranked 126 puts the ranking of gender inequality in 134 countries. Again, the economy is ranked 131st in 134 countries. Most working women work under unsecured, low wages, long hours and lack social security rights. A decline in women's employment has been observed every year, according to 2011 data from TİSAD and Women's Status Directorate. According to this, 34 per cent in 1990, 27 per cent in 2004, and 22 per cent in 2009 show the success or failures of the AKP (AKP), which boasts government's policies towards women, especially in this area. According to 2014 data, an increase in the number of women who work in insurance has been seen, but in fact the policy of inflating data is being followed to positively reflect the data of international institutions through temporary employment. Interim workers with insurance entrances can't benefit from social funds they use because they have insurance entrances when they leave work. The fact that the public is no longer convinced of these deception policies is also a matter of debate that they should not give up. In some cities, women's employment is increasing according to 2014, while the reasons for their decline in many provinces must be investigated by the government and established policy according to it. Dear lawmakers, one of the main reasons for this decline over the years in Turkey is the government's mastery of agriculture policy. According to TÜSİAD 2008 data, women's employment in agriculture has declined over time and has been described as 71.2% in 1995 and 60.5% in 2000; 48.4 in 2006. In addition, women who work off the books are 73%. As for the 2014 data, the number of women working off the books is over 4 million. TÜİK data, on average, represent the number of working women with a figure of about 7 million, 986, 2 million of which are in agriculture. If there is a right fundamental regulation of agriculture and animalism policies, the fact that by returning to natural society and production, a development in health food and living will be revealed that it will be a woman's hand again. Precious lawmakers include household workers, who make up half of women's employment, who are out-of-registered and who are employed as modern slaves, according to the description of ILO, who are paid for their services in someone else's home, and who work in other households for wages, such as child care, cleaning, cooking, gardening. The working conditions of domestic workers are uninsured, unsecured and un union-free, while their efforts are also invisible. Every day, many domestic workers are subjected to abuse, exploitation, violence, psychological and sexual abuse, adding new sacrifices to their victims. And since their wages are not in return for their labors, the equal pay issue is another dimension. Since their daily and weekly working period is high, their weariness, their illness bring many health problems. Dear lawmakers, we're in the OECD, and we're in the latest in women's employment in public. Statistically, only 7 per cent of a public official, 8.284, are women. It's a comedy to talk about women's rights in our country, whose representation of women executives is very low in property administrations, governorships, municipalities, presidential and councils, again in Parliament and any institution. In order to get rid of this comedy, especially in public, developing a model for women's employment is the easiest to control, so it is necessary to make radical decisions with legal regulations. When it begins to determine and practice the number of women working at each institution, the problem will move towards the solution point in the context of human rights and freedoms, as the woman appears to be both gender and gender, as well as one step further in the equality of men and women. Dear MPs, see, just two days ago, Mr. President has called for the exploitation of women's labor in business. He said he sees the exploitation of women's labor as harassment, that he will follow the practice to prevent violence against her. Then I say it's time to break the law that denies understanding of the abuser, the woman who protects the rapist, the woman who is the victim, and not exploiting her labor. I don't know how much it's possible to believe what Mr. President said these days, while he's still keeping warm about the gender equality issue that he's told her about, who's talking about women's employment, on the other hand, who's told her that there's no other way to accept this motion but to do what she says in order to bring it to its heat. Here's another one of the thousands of motions brought by the opposition in this Parliament and rejected by power in the same way. We created, created, so that you could be in Mr. Erdogan's favor, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0036par0357	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. Against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal, İstanbul MP Mr. Sedef Küçük. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0037par0361	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0038par0362	Democratic Congressman, Democratic...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0039par0363	People's Democratic Party.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0040par0364	Peoples' Democratic...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0041par0365	I have made a promise given by the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I once again remember the beautiful-faced, beautiful-smileed Berkin Elvin, and all the murdered children, all the young men, once again, with respect and mercy. Dear lawmakers, in addition to a series of problems such as violence, discrimination, twisted social perception, the women of our country generally experience, there is a problem with participation and employment that has become very serious and permanent. This strengthens women's disadvantaged position in economic life as well as in social and political life. The second - class approach, which makes the power feel more and more present in its rhetoric and practice, constantly emphasizes that the woman's real place is her home, and that it is her primary duty to take care of her and her children. Imagine a country where the President of that country's equality of men and women is against the outside, and the woman's priority should be motherhood. The deputy prime minister of that country will be chaste, not laughing in public. The health minister of that country can say that women should not take another career outside of their maternal career. E, in a country where almost all of the executives use such a segregated language, the language institution of that country, in response to the word "opportunity" can either place the bullshit of a woman who is available to flirt, or she can get a member of a foundation who claims to be working to raise a leading generation of Islamic civilization, even if it were your mother, to look down on her belly and on her back, and she can say, "It's not right for women to walk on the streets." Or she can say, "It's not right for her to walk on the streets." Well, that's what happens when a minister or a servant of God in charge of the family doesn't say, "What the hell are you talking about?" Here's the problem: the problem begins where the woman appears second-rate; the problem begins only when the mindset, which is acceptable when she becomes a good wife, a good mother, a good housewife. This mentality surrounds our women so much that they have no room to breathe. Based on the judgment we thought would protect the woman and the so-called justice she provided -- I gave another example from this stand -- the prosecution for Fevziye Cengiz, who was brutally beaten by the police in İzmir, wants eight years and nine months for resisting police, and Fevziye wants a year and a month for the police who beat Cengiz. In Alexander's case, why do you have intercourse with the woman who was threatened by the abuse and death of her ex-boyfriend? These blood-freeze samples are happening in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, believe me, it's not getting anywhere by burying the head in the sand. And then, when the crocodile sheds tears after our young girls who have been brutally murdered, these problems don't go away. If we sacrifice one woman a day to murder like this, our problem is more than serious. See, Mr. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Firstnur Kapaçoglu, head of the project for the domestic violence investigation of women in Turkey, points out the politicians' statements, and at the highest level, men and women are not equal. If you say so, you will strengthen that in the person on the street. That is not an obvious estimate. If women are involved in everything, starting with how many children they should have given birth at the age of their marriage, if the already present sexist perception is fueled, then the consequences are inevitable. In fact, we face these consequences in every violent event, but some see it, some prevent it from seeing it, some try to explain that it needs to be fought, some say, "Forget these problems, look at the walker." And since he says that, he's a partner in every murder, every violence. Dear lawmakers, there is a need to deal with the mentality that first creates this madness. We can't solve the problem of violence without changing this mentality. Studies show that as women's education and participation in economic life improves, so does the rate of violence. So, in addition to breaking the mentality that I was just talking about, we need to make sure that our women get the full benefit of education, and we need to increase their participation in economic life. But it turns out that both in education and in joining the labor force, our country's situation isn't very pleasant. Lawmakers from the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Excession Report were referred to many times by opposition lawmakers, compared with figures and rates, especially with employment and employment rates, where we could only be 130 percent among 142 countries in economic integration, and we were left behind even many Asian and African countries. You already know we're last in line with the OECD countries, and we haven't lost that order to anyone. Almost every EU progress report reveals the state of Turkey in women's employment. Every year, the difference between men and women is significant in terms of economic integration and opportunity equality, access to education, health and political power, pointed out in the European Commission reports. Despite the legal provisions that ensure the equality of men and women, it is said that equality does not turn into a social reality. It's a fact that stands in front of us. I mean, there's no problem with laws, regulations, incentives; the problem is that the administration that's going to do this is not willing enough to do it, and it's in the management's second-rate mindset. Dear lawmakers, the reason our women are not involved in the labor force is because they are busy with household chores. According to TİK social gender statistics, 58.7 per cent of our women are therefore unable to join the labour force. We think it would be extremely helpful to take this precaution, since it includes household chores, elderly, and child care. In order for a non-employee female population to join the labour force, some of these jobs must be given under public services, provided with day care, homes, and nursing homes to be opened with the initiatives of central and local governments, but neither the state nor the local authorities nor employers seem willing to accept the cost of providing these care services widely. In private sector businesses, there are limited facilities for child care, as well as some of the services available to these facilities. I believe there will be some improvements in women's employment when these problems are eliminated, but first I call it mentality, mentality, mentality. I especially underline the need to change the mentality of governance, and salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0042par0379	Thank you, Mr. Little. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0043par0383	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favor of HDP's group proposal for women's unemployment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, this issue has a very important dimension in terms of sociocultural, economic, political, educational and opportunity equality, but I will try to evaluate as much women's unemployment and employment as possible in this short period of time. The paintings in unemployment data, unfortunately, are very negative about women's needs. When a woman has unemployment and employment, it becomes darker, more negative than other unemployment rates. Women's unemployment rate was 11.9% in 2014. The number of unemployment may be relatively low, but there is another data that I want to draw attention to, which is that only 30.3 percent of women are involved in the labor force. According to this, the number of women considered to be a labour force in Turkey will increase 8m 729. In 2014, only 7 million,689 000 women were employed in our country. Only 94 thousand of these women are employers. In TİK numbers, while being assessed in employment, the number of free family workers who are basically in secret unemployed is 2m266. In exchange for 7 million,689 thousand women employed, 20 million,11,000 women were not included in the labour force. The number of women who are not looking for jobs and ready to work is 1,501 and the number of women who are busy with household chores will be 11 million 589. According to this, one of the two women who are not included in the workforce must be busy with household chores. Notice that in our country, the number of women engaged in household chores is 3 million more than the number of women employed by women; the number of women engaged in household chores is 11 million, 5899,000, and the number of women considered to be labor force is 8 million, 729. Women's low employment and employment rates are one of Turkey's most important problems in employment. Women's employment rates in Turkey are extremely low compared to the European Union countries. As the Lisbon Strategy, which aims to ensure social gender equality, aims to increase women's employment rate by 60 per cent by 2010, while Turkey is at 30.3 per cent in 2014. The rate far behind the Lisbon Strategy target suggests that the issue of women's employment should be at the centre of employment policies in Turkey. The government has a huge responsibility to increase women's employment in Turkey. To sum it up, only one of the four working women in Turkey joins the labor force, which is very low compared to the countries of the European Union now includes all the statements and all the findings of employment institutions. The progress reports of the European Union refer to this subject repeatedly, so that women's employment should be increased almost everywhere. Unfortunately, however, we do not see neither government nor relevant ministries as implementing concrete, time and target specific employment programmes. One of the ways to increase women's employment is to train women to work on their own account, to provide counseling and loan services. It is clear that the public responsibility for creating new jobs and allowing them to be open to women cannot be limited to projects to support women's initiative. With vocational education, women should be given a level of qualifications and relevant public institutions and professional organisations should be the means for women to be placed in a paid job. In order to increase women's paid employment, the government must implement positive discrimination and make arrangements to allow some of the social security premiums of women to be employed by the state. For all of this to be done, the existence of a will is necessary to include the equality of men and women in working life. The gender-based work department holds women responsible for all kinds of household chores, children, sick and old. This lies at the source of major inequality, which prevents women from becoming involved in working life and in politics, starting with education. For the mental and structural transformation that will change this work department, the care burden on women must first be considered a social responsibility. The incentive for the creation of appropriate institutional infrastructure and equal recognition by men is of great importance. If we put this more concretely in our country, we need to re-employ pre-school education to cover all children in the 4-5-year-old group, to re-emplify the goals of opening a large number of day care centres, day care centres, and similar institutions for children of 0-3 years. Many studies show that the lack of safe places for women who want to work out of the house but who can't do so prevents them from looking for work. Clearly, one of the preconditions for increasing women's employment is the expansion of facilities for care services. Mr. President, when you say, of course, unemployment and employment, one of the priorities that comes to mind is the economy, but as of today, Turkey's economy is on the eve of a severe depression. Unfortunately, problems in financial markets, especially in the foreign currency market, show that the government has no ability to govern the economy. This is a problem of governance in itself. Economics and social structure are indistinguishable. The more our economy works, the more peaceful social life becomes. Today, however, the economic boom point in Turkey threatens both social peace and social life. There's a rule in physics that if it gets stuck, it explodes. Turkey's economy and social structure are getting tighter and tighter, and we think it's caused by Turkey's hill managers' speech, attitude and behavior, wrong practices and policylessness. The most important data we have on this issue is unemployment and employment. Unemployment and employment data are one of the key indicators of development. Unfortunately, there are no positive developments during the Justice and Development Party period as of unemployment rates. If we look at unemployment data through the medium-term programme, it is also possible to see the government's policy on unemployment. The 2014-2016 Central Future Program has an estimated 9.4 per cent unemployment rate for 2014. In the 2015-2017 Central Future Program, it is raised to 9.6 per cent and an increase of 0.2 points in unemployment estimates adds about 600,000 unemployed citizens to the Turkish economy. This increase in unemployment prospects also shows itself in the decline in growth forecasts, so employment suffers from this negativeness. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0044par0397	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal, Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0045par0401	Ms. Mine, let's hear it, let's give you a round of applause.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0046par0402	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, in the power of the EC PARTI, praise man so that the state will be exalted. The main goal of social policies that we implement with understanding is to improve the quality of our human life. Since the founding of the EC PARTY, we have been acting on strong women, strong family, and strong society. In all the policies we've produced since 2002, we've respected the rights of our women, and we've discriminated positively. We've taken many steps towards implementing the laws needed to increase our women's cultural, social, political presence and efficiency, participation in decision-making mechanisms. With changes made in 2004 and 2010, the principle of positive discrimination is constitutionally guaranteed by men and women who have equal rights and that the state is responsible for providing this equality. With the same clause, the way we treat women, children, disabled people, elderly people, martyrs, widows, orphans, and veterans has been granted positive discrimination. In 2010 he entered the Constitution. In 2003, family courts were established, and domestic problems were decided to be seen by married judges in these residency courts. Again, in 2006, the Prime Minister's order for measures to avoid the crime of violence against children and women was issued. In 2010, the Women's Employment Oversight was established at the same time as the Prime Minister's General Assembly on Increased Women's Employment and Association of Opportunities, published to increase women's employment and provide equal pay for equal employment. Again, in 2003, the principle of equal wages for equal employment was introduced in the Employment Law. The Employment Law, which entered into force in 2005, made significant changes in the equality of women and men, and in the relationship between employers and workers, for no reason, including gender, can be discriminated against. In 2008, in order to increase the employment of women and young people, insurance premiums for women and young people began to be gradually paid by the state for five years. With the arrangements made in 2011, mother's and milk permits were redesigned, and fathers had the right to receive free leave at their request. Again, the provision of the income tax law in 2007 was exempted from taxes on women's income from products and property produced inside the house. In 2009, the Commission for the Equality of Women and Men was established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to establish a perspective on equality of women and men. In 2011, we established the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and made it more efficient by gathering different institutions under one roof. As a result of the removal of antiquated practices, our women's education has reached significant levels. Our daughters make up 45 percent of the 5 million students who are educated in our universities today. The rate of illiterate women was 19.4 per cent in 2000 and 6.6 per cent in 2013. The net schooling rate for girls increased to 99 per cent in primary school, 94 per cent in secondary school. These are the highest rates in the history of the Republic. Again, at the same time, our Diyarbakır Cermik district is Turkey's 1st in terms of girls' schooling and has a 99.5 per cent rate. In 2013, women's participation in the labour force increased to 30.8 per cent. For the city, more women joined the labor force in the rural area at 28%. Of course, as you know, in the east, southeast, the woman's labor force in the field of agriculture is actually related to evacuations, burning villages, and the problems of our region, and with the arrangements we've made, we've supported the return to the village, and we've increased the number of them day by day. Again, with regulations made in the Employment Law, the ban on working as a mother has been imposed in 16 weeks, eight before birth and eight after birth. Along with Law 6111, the maternity and milk permits have been redacted and put into effect.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0047par0417	Mr. President, they don't even listen to their own deputies.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0048par0418	Mr. Lawmakers, if you could just stop humming a little bit... let's hear the voice of Mr. Hatti. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0049par0420	In the use of support loans, women have been given positive discrimination, and women have been given a higher level of access to loans. In 2012-2014, KOSGEB provided $90m in support of women entrepreneurial support for 5.638 women. Where agricultural development co-ops are located, women farmers are trained in general co-ops and cooperative activities. In 2011, the mobbing district called for necessary measures to prevent psychological harassment at work. In order to strengthen the fight against psychological abuse, the Labor and Social Security Communication Centre ▪ is provided with assistance and support for employees through psychologists via Alo 170. Mr. Kars just told us that talking about women's rights is a comedy. That actually touched me a lot. Because, you know, Layla Zana was removed from Parliament because she made a Kurdish sentence on this stand, but Layla Zana is now in this Parliament, at the time of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0050par0424	How was the AK PARTY in time? Did you bring it? The people brought it, dear.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0049par0425	And again, Merve Karakçı was our sister, who was thrown out of this parliament because of her headscarf. Praise be to God, we now have friends with headscarves under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This happened during the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey was always boasted that women were given the right to choose and be elected in 1934. However, our headscarfed friends were stripped of their right to be elected. Now, thanks to AK PARTY power, this wound is closed. When we look at Parliament today, we have achieved the highest turnout in the history of the republic at 14.1 per cent, and as the EC PARTY, we aim to reach 20 per cent and 25 per cent. Of course, now that we're talking about the Homeland Security package, our people have a serious demand for us at this point. Hasan Gökgöz, Yasin Bör, who died in October 6th, 7th, I also remember them with mercy. Hasan Gökgöz's father, Uncle Mehmet, just called me: "Allah have mercy on them, God bless them," but you're not talking about our children. Let's not compete with our pain. 50 of our citizens were killed in October 6th and 7th, and the Homeland Security package actually came out after that. Let's set up this research commission, of course, but hopefully, the new term is in Parliament. And whatever is to be done about her, we, the AK PARTI women and the male MPs, because we are getting their huge support -- under the leadership of our Prime Minister, by the leadership of our President, I hope. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0051par0434	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0052par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0051par0436	I'm listening.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0052par0437	Mr. Orator, my name is...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0051par0438	Mr. One, you're going to ask for a word of sarcasm, but for the record, you're going to say two sentences, and then I'm going to promise.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0052par0439	He speaks my name, so he has the right to answer, and I want to talk to him.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0051par0440	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0052par0443	Thank you. Mr. Mine, perhaps your examples are the right examples in this Parliament today, but the arrival of Leyla Zana to this Parliament is not the grace of the AK PARTI, or the AKP. And you're talking about legal arrangements. The heart would love it if we'd seen the practice of legal regulations and found its place. That's why we say, when you talk -- at the point of persecution -- perhaps with a very ingenious approach, you're trying to praise the AKP government, its government, its power through the arrangements, but it doesn't match any of these legal regulations that the President, the ministers or AKP officials say about the equality of men and women, but we have very big contradictions. No one believes the president's remarks that he's trying to emphasize against her, as I just stated in my speech, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0053par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0054par0448	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0053par0449	A moment ago, in his speech, he said, "We will perform these things under the leadership of our President, Mr. Prime Minister." You can appreciate that the President is not qualified to lead a party within the duties and powers described in Article 104 of the Constitution. The speaker -- you didn't intervene, you were supposed to intervene there -- has to correct this statement. If it can't be fixed, I demand a formal discussion on your holding.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0055par0450	Mr. President, I have a request to make. During his speech, Mr. Orator said that we were in a position not to express any sadness about Yasin Börür. So, in a sense, he put our party under suspicion. I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0056par0452	It's all there. Wait a second... Ms. Mine, did you see Mr. Zozani object to a sentence from you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0057par0454	I can't hear you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0056par0455	I'll tell you. He said: Mr. President cannot lead the work of a political party. Therefore, let Mr. Lök correct his promise...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0057par0456	There's nothing to fix, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0056par0457	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Or I'll ask him to discuss your attitude in a manner that you haven't interfered with. That's why I'm telling you now. Are you going to fix it or not?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0460	I have nothing to fix, but let me explain.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0056par0461	I mean, do I make myself clear?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0462	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0056par0463	I repeat, Mr. Lök: We will carry out these things under the leadership of our Prime Minister and President. You said so yourself. According to the Constitution, the President cannot lead any political party in its work. He says he wants to open a legal debate because I have not interfered with you. So if you fix the system, if you don't fix it, then... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0467	I, of course, can't... Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is our founding President, our father, our leader.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0059par0469	He's President now.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0470	I mean, I don't really have anything to fix in this.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0059par0471	The president can't be the leader of a party.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0472	I'm here as an MP from the Women's Arms. Mr. President, we've always had great, great support.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0060par0473	Sir, these words require a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0474	I'm going to get it out of the records, but there's nothing to correct that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0061par0475	Open a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0060par0476	He's confirming, sir. Let's discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0058par0477	I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0063par0480	We demand a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0481	Now, Mr. Zozani, one moment...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0064par0482	It's necessary.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0483	I'll open up a conversation of my own, so you can't open it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0065par0484	I demand it, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0485	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0065par0486	I demand it. It's yours.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0487	You ask for it, and I don't open it or open it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0065par0488	Admiration is yours, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0489	Now, here's the thing: the principle is that until today, I've been criticized -- including your speeches -- so I've been criticized -- I don't interrupt. Second: In just two matters, MPs have the right to give the MPs a warning: one of them has the right to use a clean language, and the other one has two things to say, "Don't leave." So, now, I'm going to put aside the part about the procedural debate, and I'm going to make you a promise to tease you, and then I'm going to think about it after I take the vote, and I'm going to give you an answer. You asked for a promise.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0066par0493	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0062par0494	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I give you my word of reproach. Then I'll vote on the motion. After that, I'll think about it, we'll see. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0067par0499	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Orator used a phrase here during his speech as if we had made a distinction between Yasin Bör and those who lost their lives on October 6th and 7th, as if we hadn't shared those sufferings. This sentence is not a correct sentence.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0068par0502	Congressman, his father told me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0067par0503	We have repeatedly expressed from this stand that we feel the pain of all 50 of our citizens who lost their lives in the October 6th and that in order to avoid new suffering, all provocative approaches behind these events must be revealed, and that the Assembly must set up a research commission for them, and that we are expressing the same thing today.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0068par0504	I said the same thing.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0067par0505	Segregating between deaths and competing in suffering is never a way for the People's Democratic Party to apply. I wish you had shown the same sensitivity, Mr. Prime Minister, or the party leader you've described, Mr. President, in the events of October 6th, 7th, he could have revealed with such open heart that he felt the same pain in his heart for our fellow soldiers, 36 parties who died with guards' bullets. As you did not do so, for example, in October 6th, after the assassination of Bingol Police Director, we punished you as the perpetrator of the incident. You did not apologize to the people, you did not apologize to them, you executed those people as perpetrators of the assassination of the Chief Constable, and then the criminal examinations produced different results, yet you were in a position that did not apologize to the families, the people. In the case of October 6th, 7th, we argue today that the House should set up another research commission to expose all the suffering. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0508	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0070par0509	Mr. President, about Mr. Zana...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0510	Now, wait a second, Mr. Levent Sky will rise...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0071par0511	I thought you were going to open up a legal debate...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0512	Oh, no, that, then, I'll clean up first and then... Now, I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0071par0519	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0520	You want roll call, over.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0072par0521	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0522	There's always a chance to explain yours to get picked on, so I'm asking you, they're okay.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0072par0523	Yeah, yeah. As Mr. Zana's attorney in the past, I need to make a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0525	I get it. I'm, like everyone else, tired as the whole House is right now, tired, having trouble picking up the words a little bit. I'm putting it in order, slowly, quietly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0073par0527	When I work to four, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit02spe0069par0528	Mr. Gök, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Tatayligil, Mr. Oran, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Köse, Mr. Bay Bay Bayuttan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kaplan. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure The meeting was not enough in the polls before the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal was voted. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Is Mr. Levent Enterprise here? There was a demand for correction.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0074par0013	He's outside, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0069par0014	I also accept Mr. Zozani's request to discuss my administration.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0075par0015	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0069par0016	In favor, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0076par0017	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0069par0018	Against you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0077par0019	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0069par0020	Mr. Halaçoglu is in favor, Mr. Gök and Mr. Zozani are against him. But, now, before I make the promises, I'll make a correction, and you'll be short... Mr. Corporate, I'm fulfilling your request for correction. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0078par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. In yesterday's merger, my speech at Article 52 has been written in a court of law, and I wanted to correct it. That's what Prime Minister Ala said about the Constitutional Amendment the government gave so that political parties wouldn't be shut down. Mr. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has made this correction, and especially recently, the issue of former Undersecretary Hakan Fidan has also come to light. You know, there's been a lot of discussion about the withdrawal of his candidacy, and we've seen a painting once again from the president that can't be moved without permission. And Mr. President has power over the Prime Minister, the government, the entire state, the entire community, but he can't control the dollar billionaires, you know, he's fallen into the interest and dollar lobby. One of them is Soma Holdings, one of the dollar billionaires. Here is the skyscraper of Alp Gürkan, called Spine Tower, you know, rising on the bodies of the miners who died in Soma. Look, Spine Tower is going to promote this on Thursday. Let us address all the workers from here: Those who want to live up to the suffering, the memory of the Somese miners must, of course, not leave the miners there alone, against those who want to build monuments over a mine like this. Soma Holdings, who don't pay their compensation, are now building skyscrapers like this. No one should be watching this. This skyscraper, in fact, is a picture of the cruelness of capital, the indecency, the immorality, the unconscionableness, all kinds of worthlessness. There, miners leave monuments like this, where dollar billionaires cry for blood. They say, "Come in with rooms this high, like this high, elevator, and invest." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is the picture of the injustice in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0079par0033	Thank you. Now, we're going to have a discussion of the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0080par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise to express my views in favor of the position of the President in the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our Diyarbakır MP, Mr. Mine Lök White Lady, has kindly shared her thoughts, opinions with us during the discussion of a group proposal for the employment of women, and this argument has been raised by Mr. Zozani on the grounds that it should interfere with the President's content. Now, dear friends, the President's duties and powers have been arranged under Article 104 of the Constitution. In the first joke, the president is the head of the state. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation; it monitors the implementation of the Constitution, the regular and harmonised work of state bodies.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0081par0043	Does Mr. Doğan also rule the AKP?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0080par0044	Again, in accordance with Article 104 (b), it is considered to be part of the mandate and authority of the Council of Ministers to head the government as it sees fit. Now, dear friends, it is his constitutional duty to share with the public the opinion of women who represent more than half of the country's union, to address their fundamental problems, to make initiatives in this matter, to encourage and even instruct institutions and institutions outside the government and outside the government. In particular, I'm very interested in how, in terms of the internal charter, in terms of the Constitution, in terms of which a normal member of parliament has been speaking in terms of freedom of opinion, would support these calls to the fundamental solution of such issues, and in terms of our friend, Mr. President, in this regard, to the efforts to resolve these issues. In the Civil Charter, the 66th and 67th Articles, there are basic principles and principles of language. I mean, Mr. President, he's only responsible for warning that speaker on the stand when he's out of context and acts against the Civil Code. And second of all, if there are rude and hurtful words... Our friend gave a very decent speech, and he never got off the subject. If the Civil Code provisions are to be carried out here, there have been many talks where 161 and 163 will be carried out, with the temporary removal penalty; there have been strong accusations against the President and the Prime Minister, but none of our friends have been forced to do so under the framework of freedom of this idea. If we really... Freedom of opinion is also stated in the decisions of the ECHR. You have to look at these things with tolerance, which you don't embrace, which is shocking, and maybe you don't like them at all. In this frame, I find it very important that friends who talk about freedom of opinion here every day open up a discussion of procedure because of the thought of a friend of ours. Therefore, since I consider our President's failure to intervene in this matter as an expression of his respect for freedom of opinion and an act in accordance with the Civil Code, I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0082par0049	Thank you. Against Mr. Zozani, please.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0083par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. It may be the power's duty to read intentions; along with the Homeland Security Act they bring in, they are already preparing to take the citizens into custody and put them in jail. So, from now on, it's their job to read, or rather they shouldn't, because they're preparing the legal infrastructure for it. The Kenan universe used such a sentence: ▪ The country can think freely, but when it sings, it becomes a problem. It's kind of like that. You can talk, and when you express something, we question your intentions behind it. Sir, the Court of Parliament is not a mechanical place; its duty is to implement the Civil Code, and the Constitution, which is sent to every lawmaker in print along with the Civil Code. Because in Article 14 of the Civil Code, the Parliamentary Speaker and the Presidential Court have a duty to observe the Constitutional compliance of the Parliamentary Court's work. You go, you read 66, it works for you, and I read 66. Look at 14, does he not say, "Look at the 14th frame," or does the Speaker of the Parliament say, "Is the Parliament looking for the Constitutional fitness of Parliament's work?" Is it binding or not binding for each of us, since each member of parliament has a speech, an activity of law enforcement? It's binding in every aspect of our activity. Look at the point where I object: I did not object to Mr. President or a political party leader starting campaigns in social problems, starting campaigns for social responsibility and leading public sensibilities. Well, that's not the testimony of your honor here. We began the sentence as the EC PARTY, saying, "Mr. Prime Minister, under the leadership of our President." Now, when you say that, that's where I object, and that's a fair objection. Yes, you're mechanically...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0084par0055	Do it, Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0083par0056	Yes, we want to say that the President is the President of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0084par0057	You can do it, too.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0085par0058	The AKP republic.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0083par0059	...the first joke of Article 104 of the Constitution stands at equal distance from everyone. That's what we want to say. But if you'll excuse me, excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0086par0060	The Constitution suspended him, not my President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0083par0061	...let the President run the principle of neutrality and put it into practice. If you come up here and say, "Our President is the leader of our party."
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0086par0062	They're right.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0083par0063	That was before August 10th. He became president; as President, when he came to Parliament as President, we welcomed him here with kindness. I didn't say there was any rudeness in the speaker's speech. However, we object when you try to introduce the principle of neutrality as the party's leader, like a party's party's party's party's party's party's party's party, in a position where it should be strictly in place of its every action. Objection is natural right. You see yourself a spiritual father, you see a leader, something else... he's your problem, I'm not saying anything about it, but the Constitution is what binds us. Laws and tasks described in the Constitution. I remember, before the 10th of August elections, six or seven months ago, we put it on this bench, and we said, in the current case, a period of a crisis of authority will begin in Turkey from August 10th. We've expressed it from this stand, we've expressed it. Bring us your arrangements, whatever you want to do, and we'll take measures to prevent this disturbance of authority. Why didn't you bring it? Now, you've entered into the checto apps. So, if you're going to look for a parallel somewhere, if you're going to look for a piracy somewhere, all of these applications are against the Constitution, so you can call them, or you can call them parallels, or you can call them apps, or you can call them something else, but it's clear here: you're doing something contrary to the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And these statements here are wrong in this frame, and that's what we object to. We don't have a problem with Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0087par0068	Yes, he's in favor of the procedural debate, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0088par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of the President's position in the debate on the procedure. I salute your high council. There's nothing wrong with Mr. Speaker not interfering with the speaker's speech here, but let's just say that Mr. Hatti's speech was not the right one. Now, when you look at the presidency, it's a position that everyone should respect. We, as a National Movement Party tradition, state that the presidency is a respectable office, both as a constitution and as a tradition, but first it is Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is in charge of maintaining the dignity of this office. Before the August 10th elections, Mr. President's statement pointed to today: "Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan should not be President, he shouldn't be. There were two reasons for our president's testimony. On December 17th-25, even if he was released from these courtrooms, including himself and his children, with certain irregular judges and prosecutor appointees, there were questions on his conscience about the corruption of this century on December 17th and 25th. And the second, as of tradition, we have been able to determine the position of the president's office because of its firm attitude that he cannot maintain his neutrality. Mr. President has expressed these days, and the point that came today is this. Now, valued lawmakers, one of the duties of the Justice and Development Party in the first place, says to maintain the dignity of the Presidential office because the Constitution will be cut off from the party from the moment the President is elected, on Article 103, Article 104, and Article 104. I now ask your conscience: Is Recep Tayyip Erdogan now cut off from the President's party, no matter what you say here on the stand? No, sir, at every point he intervenes in events related to the party; is it the President's responsibility to determine who is a member of parliament and who is not a member of parliament? It is not the President's concern whether he does or doesn't or that the X person is running from the EC PARTY because the President needs to be neutral. Here, look what he swears in article 103. He says: "In order to carry out my duty to me with neutrality... I swear on my name and honor. " Now, this promise must be obeyed, but what does he do? The president is holding rallies with the state's resources, almost like the head of the EC PARTY, under the name of openings. Whose money is he doing this with? He's doing it with the government and everybody's money. What does that mean at your rally? He wants 400 deputies for the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0089par0076	The AK doesn't say "PARTI", it says "party."
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0088par0077	You know very well that a party is an AK PARTY, and so do we, and so does the public. I mean, is it possible for us to accept this on our conscience now? The 104th article also requires that we work in harmony with the institutions. Now, put your hand on your conscience...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0090par0079	What conscience?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0088par0080	I address all lawmakers: What would another president say if he did this? If you're so interested in politics, take off your forts, come, the political square here, do politics here. He said it over and over again. The President of the Constitutional Court was President of the Supreme Court of the Constitution when the President's decision to close the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) was not only closed by the President's vote, but immediately after his decision against him, take out the cuppeni, and come to the political square. The President uses the expression.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0091par0081	That's not a good comparison. It didn't fit, it didn't fit, it didn't fit.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0088par0082	Yeah, it fits. Because what the President did today is in contrast with what he said yesterday. You represent the state, you represent the state of the Republic of Turkey. You're not the President of Justice and Development. You're the president of the entire nation. You have to act like this. It destroys the institutions of the state, disrespects the presidency, undermines the presidency's office. No one has the right to undermine the state's authorities. If the state's institutions are worn down, the state will be worn down, the state will be destroyed if the institutions of the state are destroyed. This may come in handy today, but a worn-out presidential office is a danger to the survival of the state of the Republic of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if the president's going to do politics, he should take off his forts.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0092par0087	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Against you, Mr. Sky. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0091	Mr. President, of course, when the election approaches, we have no objection to the AKP lawmakers' concern, concern, and the fact that they know who's really going to do the lists, to the President here, to the President, to the President, to the words that say that he's in charge of the Prime Minister in a way that goes beyond the Prime Minister. Because we know that when the President was elected in the 101st Article of the Constitution, he did not break up with his party, he violated the Constitution. As the president did not break up with his party, the AKP (AKP) did not cut off their political alliance with the President; he is still the manager, he is still the leader, Ahmet Davutoglu is not present. The situation is so painful and true, so painful and true. Now, the President swears on his neutrality, there are so many examples that violate his neutrality, which one should we give, my dear friends, which one should we give? We're talking about the Homeland Security package. The president's talking about it, and he says, "This law will come sooner or later." Who's he talking to? He calls it the Clave. Who's going to pass this law, who's going to vote? AKP members. That's why you can't leave, you're in a hurry to keep the President's eyes on you, so that you don't lose face with him, so that we can be on the lists.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0094par0094	Where else would the congressman be? On the Assembly General Assembly, of course. What's that got to do with anything? The congressman will be here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0095par0095	Where else would we be? Let's not be here, where should we be, where should we go?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0096	Look, the President said this, and I cried out from this bench, and a president who said that this package will come out sooner or later. If you have the heart, come out here and say: "President, it's not your business, it's our business with the Prime Minister, it's the House's business." We're the ones who decide on that. We don't act on your instructions. I'm looking for a courageous AKP MP! I'm looking! It says here that the government belongs to the nation unconditionally. You're all under custody. Custody crushes you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0096par0098	President! President!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0099	Just yesterday, the president tells the chiefs that they've come to the 50th article to block the blockade. The opposition is blocking it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0097par0100	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0101	The president is the party, the party, and the leader in the AKP.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0098par0102	The side is the side of democracy!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0103	Who's blocking it? The opposition is blocking it. Is that how a president talks? A president says: "This law is discussed in Parliament, I come in front of me, I decide." No, the President is involved. He said he'd come out sooner or later, that there was no more law, no less.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0098par0104	He's right.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0105	Dear friends, who are you kidding? The president is also not neutral, he divides the country, polarizes it. Our friend here just told us what the President did about women. Didn't the President just say the other day, wear a cleavage to your faith, we'll raise a generation of historical, thinking young people? I thought you didn't bother with people's clothes. Why do you care if people wear cleavage? Where's your liberal sense? You're all screwing up. The President is now the main problem in front of Turkey's democracy, dear friends. First of all, you can't carry out the duties of the MP here unless the AKP MPs oppose this will.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0099par0108	He is not against our will, he is our will!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0109	We've seen it yet, and we're glad that the Prime Minister has come. We've seen how Hakan Fidan. He called it. We've seen how such candidacy has been taken away from him, and how he's been brought back to the Undersecretary of the MIT in opposition to the Prime Minister's struggles. Did you make any noise? No, you can't.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0099par0110	We stand by strong will.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0111	None of you has the power to make a sound under custody. Just press against the dry crowd, the opposition; try to crush the opposition with the violence of the police, with the TOMA. These are not going to work for us, dear friends. The President will know his place! (AK PARTY rankings) We will call out to the president from here the fact that the Kingdom is a unconditional nation. Those words are due to a AKP Group that does not reject it as soon as a President says so.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0100par0113	Mr. President, let's be honest.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0114	Get up out of here. Criticize if you have the heart, criticize the President if you have the heart. You entrusted your will and all your thinking systems to your president.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0100par0115	You know your place!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0116	No good can come of it, no good can come of it. We defend democracy here, we defend the Constitution, we force the President to work within the constitutional line. Let him do it, let him earn all of our respect, but a president who doesn't do that shouldn't allow him to be protected here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0100par0117	Who are you to insult the President? Who are you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0093par0118	I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0101par0120	You'll know your place! He's behind strong will.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0102par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0103par0122	I'll give you my word. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker on the stand...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0102par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0103par0125	Why don't you take your seats, and I'll give you my word, but I'll finish this. The president's intervention, which governs the assembly of the speaker's words on the stand, can happen in two ways, except for disciplinary provisions. First, to invite the MP to speak on the subject discussed according to Article 66 of the Civil Code, and second, to use a clean language, in accordance with Article 67 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0104par0127	It's got everything.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0105par0128	His tongue isn't clean either.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0106par0129	He did both.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0107par0130	Other than that, it is contrary to the concept of immunity, as the president does not have the authority to subject the speaker to the content of his words and to warn him of their accuracy.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0108par0131	You were wrong to open such a dispute. Waste of time, time. It's a shame, isn't it? And five minutes each.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0107par0132	Here's the result of this discussion of procedure, my lords. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0134	Sir, you are under guardianship. He insulted our group.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0110par0135	You really need to step in on the legal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0107par0136	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0140	Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0111par0141	It's a chef's period!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0142	...no one's here to report the attack. It's the only place in the democracies to kick ass, folks. And the people will go to the polls. If Mr. Levent and his friends had already learned their place in every election, they'd be sitting in a different place today. So, instead of saying they're full of words, let me point out that people's will as a reality takes over everything. Second of all, this is a House where everyone decides of their own free will. As free as the People of CHP are, the HDP (HDP), the MPHP people are as free as they are in a party discipline and hierarchy, be assured, the EC PARTI is free as they are and will decide on their own.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0112par0145	I wish I was!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0146	Third, for thirteen years, the AK PARTY has been in power. Thank God there are people in this country who are shut down, and there are people who are cleaving. Instead of thinking about Turkey in our heads, we can go out on the street and look at the reality of this country. No one's interfering with the one wearing the cleavage, but there are people who still call the ones wearing the hoods. Unfortunately, that's what I'm afraid to say.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0112par0147	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0113par0148	You're not ashamed!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0149	Another thing, gentlemen, is that you start again at 2:00 a.m., Angaria. The first group hasn't even finished, and it's 5:00.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0112par0150	Aren't these legislature activities?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0151	It's a chore.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0112par0152	These aren't activities?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0109par0153	This is an attempt to prevent the Parliament from operating in accordance with the Civil Code, by creating an actual situation in order to prevent it from working. We call this chore no. If we can't work now, it's 2:00 a.m. We'll work after 100. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0112par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0157	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0115par0158	He didn't say anything!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0159	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0116par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0117par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0162	Now, members of lawmakers and members of the group, I have served in this Parliament since 2007. We've gone through critical laws together, and we've gone through the same laws that you've been fighting each other over. Everyone knows it's like being in custody... Mr. Bostanci, I don't think so. You're under custody. I'm asking you to take back your promise.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0118par0164	No, I didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0119par0165	He didn't mean you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0166	He said it for me, for me. Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0120par0168	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0170	If you didn't tell me, then I took it back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0121par0171	CHP told me, Mr. President, CHP told me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0172	I got it back, so I took it back, okay, because...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0122par0173	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0174	Okay, I take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0123par0175	The other one told me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0176	So I took it back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0124par0177	No, no, he didn't say "Botanian," sir. He told the other one, Mr. President, he told the other one.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0125par0178	CHP told me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0179	Okay, excuse me. I'm just saying, Mr. President, that you're under custody. I've made a statement to everyone because I understand that you're under custody. Now, I didn't say that, I didn't say that to you. I took it back because he said that, and I'm sorry. This is something else, we're going in rows. I'm so tired, don't confuse me. Now, therefore, you may have objections about this place, the person who runs it, as methods, it's also a way of discussing the path, but it's a good idea to take matters into our own hands without personalizing it. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0126par0183	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci said in his speech earlier that this was a chore, an actual obstruction. He used these statements, picked on them, in the way I argued.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0127par0184	You've taken the pin out of the coven.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0185	Mr. Halaçoglu, what do you say?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0128par0186	For the same reason, we cannot possibly accept an understanding that describes the recommendations we have provided here in accordance with the Charter.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0187	I understand Mr. Sky had begun first. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0189	About this?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0114par0190	Yeah, because he took your word for it. But before I get as personal as possible, I'd like to ask you all in private. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0193	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have asked my AKP friends here to prove that they are not under custody.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0130par0194	Oh, we're gonna prove it to you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0195	The president's words are not defeated.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0131par0196	You prove it, you! What's with all the resistance? Prove it!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0132par0197	Who are you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0198	Look, I gave a speech here the other day after the fight hearing. That's exactly what I said here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0131par0199	What custody are you under?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0200	I say, do you accept yourself as a guardian? Yes, they are. They don't suit you, dear friends.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0133par0201	None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0134par0202	None of your business! You don't care about the AK PARTY!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0203	It's... it's my business. You can't be under the President's care.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0135par0204	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0205	Your leader is Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, but you will consult with him. Okay?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0136par0206	It's none of your business.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0207	I remind you of your place, your mission.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0136par0208	Mind your own party.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0209	Mr. President, we're using our rights from the House, the Civil Code. Each of the group proposals is about the issues of our country's major problems.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0137par0210	What business is it of yours?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0211	Do we have a common understanding of what our party and other parties think here? We discussed important matters. Look, we've just discussed women's unemployment at the HDP Group's proposal. Is it a trivial matter? Is that something that can't be investigated? I'm having a hard time really understanding an understanding of this as a chore. Mr. Bostanci, if only you would release the AKP Group on this matter, we would like to set up a commission to investigate the unemployment problem of our women, which is half our population, as well as other problems. Well, the opposition demands it, so why deny it? We're bringing in a motion for parallel structures, and the AKP people refuse to investigate if there are parallel structures.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0138par0214	You can't interfere with us. We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0129par0215	My fellow citizens, yesterday we submitted a motion to investigate the interest lobby, which was rejected by the AKP Group's votes. We've submitted a motion on the parallel structure, rejected by the AKP Group's votes. It's also useful for your real face to be seen.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0138par0217	Are we going to ask you, or are we going to ask you to vote?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0139par0218	We're doing legislature work.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0140par0219	Just for the record.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0141par0220	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0140par0221	The word "Angaria" did not come from us. In previous times, friends expressed the word Angaria (Angarya) as they studied the legislature at 2 a.m.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0142par0222	It's always a chore when you work at 2:00 a.m.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0140par0223	So that's what I'm talking about right now, that's what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0143par0224	Okay.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0144par0225	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0145par0226	Don't you have a group vice president?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0144par0227	...you saw the work as a chore until two o'clock, and now we're going to show you the chore work.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0146par0228	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0147par0229	No, he said, No, he picked on her, didn't pick on her.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0148par0230	Let him sit down, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0149par0231	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0147par0232	What he said is different. Mr. Cherry, what he says is different. Now, first of all, let's take one step at a time with the group presidents, another sentence. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we said, "This is why we have spoken for the talks after two o'clock, for the talks.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0151par0239	You're talking, we're not talking!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0152par0240	Speak, my dear Recep, speak.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0241	In accordance with regulations and regulations...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0151par0242	We're seeing each other, you're talking.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0243	...on a law that is not for the benefit of the nation...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0153par0244	She's for you. She's for you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0245	On behalf of the fallen nation, we carry out the mission.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0154par0246	So are we.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0247	So, in a law that is not in the best interest of the nation, we are working to prevent something from being given to us by the Charter, which is for the benefit of the nation. This is our right according to the Law.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0248	There's no such right in the Charter.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0249	We have rights, we have rights, we have rights.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0250	What substance, what substance? What's in the Charter?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0251	So, at this hour, at five o'clock, we're offering advice from the Council of Counsellors that...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0252	In what article does obstruction of the law apply?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0253	The recommendations of the Council are in accordance with the Charter.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0254	On what basis is the obstruction of the law?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0255	It is the Charter to discuss these Council proposals here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0256	What's in the Charter?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0156par0257	Hodja, it's not the Council, it's the group proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0258	So we're seeing each other in the Charter because they need to be discussed...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0259	Name one item, substance?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0150par0260	...and therefore, calling it "angarya" means that you are already in violation of the law and the Charter, and that you are in fact illegal.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0155par0261	You're the one who called me Angarya.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0157par0262	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0158par0263	Sir, this is a group proposal, not the Council of Counsellors.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0159par0264	So, group proposals, research proposals...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0158par0265	Hah!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0159par0266	The motions for parliamentary research are in accordance with the Charter and are in the name of this nation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0158par0267	It's by the bylaws.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0159par0268	It turns out, however, that a mindset describing public problems here asgaria has no respect for both law and Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0160par0269	You're the one who called me Angarya.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0161par0270	It's a self-criticism.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0159par0271	So we can't possibly accept that. If you're referring togaria, open the Constitution, you'll see what it is in the Constitution...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0162par0272	It suits you too, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0159par0273	...if you move within that frame. So you can't come up here and stop us from talking about the people of the Charter.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0163par0275	Mr. Zozani, come in. He speaks for your group, doesn't he? As a congressman, I will never make any promises, and then you will come and talk.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0164par0277	It's for the band.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0163par0278	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0165par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. We said at first, we won't have any trouble in time. And he that returneth from this rice, let his spoon be broken. We said, aforetime.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0166par0282	There's no sound at 2:00 a.m.!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0165par0283	Let's work at 2:00 a.m., 3:00 a.m., 5:00 a.m., all right?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0166par0284	Aye!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0165par0285	We have no objection to that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0166par0286	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0165par0287	As for the occupation, look, the point we object to is this: Now, you will come out from somewhere, and you will take the Civil Law into your hands. The opposition abuses it. The opposition invites you there, and invites you to obey. What? You've done a procedure against the Civil Code 73, you've brought it here, you're discussing non-existent substances here; it's against the law. Reminds you, you don't fit. You've done a violation of Article 35 of the Civil Code, you bring it here, the opposition objects to it, reminds you of it, and you ignore it. The Speaker of Parliament invites him to comply with the 13th Amendment, the Speaker of Parliament states that he does not comply with the Civil Code. You don't think about it, you don't think about it at all, and then you come up here and say, "Sir, you're abusing the Civil Code." No, we're not abusing the Civil Code, you're ignoring the Civil Code. In the current case, Mr. Cemil Cicek is retiring, so I suggest that he earns a lot of money: let him open a field store, let him sell the House of Parliament. He's never read it, but he should sell the Clave's Secret Service in that store. If it's not enough, Mr. Ayşe Nur can take Yeşçkaplı and Mr. Sadik Yakut. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0167par0291	It's a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0168par0292	I mean, I asked you not to personalize it, but don't. Yes, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors Tuesday (March 11th 2015), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. [[İzmir]] On January 13, 2015, it was suggested that the problems of pensioners, given by Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and his friends, given to the presidency of TBM by 3607, be investigated by 20/10/2011 and (10/148), as well as by Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir and his friends, as well as the problems given to our country by 9 million, should be conducted on Wednesday (March 11th 2015), in which our proposals should be conducted by the General Assembly (now) in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the issues that should be taken. In favour of the National Party of Action Group's proposal, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, MP of the Constabulary. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0169par0308	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the motion as the National Party of Action to open a parliamentary investigation in order to investigate the problems of pensioners and determine the measures that need to be taken. On this occasion, I salute you all. According to the latest information released by Social Security Agency in November 2014, our country receives 10 million 875,000 pensioners, widows and orphans, and incomes. People who retire after a long working life dream of living the rest of their life peacefully, happily, and humanly, without any future concern. However, in our country, our pensioners are not happy. Retired people lead a desperate life from the future. Retirers are in distress, pensioners are in trouble; pensioners are suffering, screaming, but unfortunately, the AKP does not heed the silent cry of those who have worked for years. Today, if pensioners can't live humanly, if they can't live happily and peacefully, if the month they get is not enough, if they're in dire difficulty and they're burdened with debt, the perpetrator and the perpetrator are responsible for it, and the AKP governments are responsible. Every penny that goes into the pockets of our pensioners goes to raises, interest, tax. The AKP has sunk the pensioner into debt, put him in a crisis, took away everything he had. Our pensioners have been poor year after year, anchored in poverty. The majority of pensioners receive months below the hunger limit. Retired pensioners couldn't afford to pay their own expenses, so they had to take care of their unemployed child and his family. The AKP is deceiving pensioners with inflation, comforting them with a salary increase of 3-5 cents. In January, 2 million officers paid a salary increase of 2.32 per cent to pensions of 3,9 million SECs and BUG-KUR pensions. That's what happens to pensioners. Do you know how much more SEC pensions have increased? I'll tell you: 24 lira. Do you have any idea how much our pensions have gone up? 13 liras, 15 liras. I say to the government of the AKP: "This shame is enough for you. O President, O Prime Minister, you are saying that the economy is in good shape with empty words, that Turkey has prospered, that national income per person has reached $11,000. If that's the case, why don't you give the pensioners their share? You're hoarding the pensioner's rights into cash registers, shoe boxes? I'm asking: Have you ever been bored, never blushed, giving a pension a 15-20 lira raise? But, where! There's no face to be ashamed of. Look, the Minister of Finance says the increase in pensions is very high on inflation. Of course, they're dry, they don't care about pensioners, they don't have that kind of problem. Let them enjoy their own quadrillion-year-old palaces, mansions, trillions of dollars of government aircraft and government cars, and let the pensioners crawl. That's their understanding. In fact, let's give them 700 lira pensions so they can see if his pension is high or low. Does this Minister of Finance, who reads stories to pensioners, know about the cost of life in this government, the price of food? I wonder if the coal has information on the price of gas, gas bill, electricity bill. The pension increase doesn't even cover the increase in electricity bills that rise with open and secret raises. It's just that the electricity bill takes away a significant portion of his pension. And you're putting the money stolen by thieves on the backs of honest citizens on the grounds that they don't have to be embarrassed by corporate subsidiaries. It's a mindset that's too good to take care of thieves, smugglers, corrupts. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government has repeatedly disappointed pensioners. The most complaints we get from our pensions today are why their pension is low, "I've got more services than elephants, I've paid more premiums, why is my pension less than his?" they ask rightly. The AKP has not kept its promises to pensioners, nor has it met the inequality and imbalances between pensions. Contrary to the promises made, the pensioner's SSC, BUG-KUR, the pensioner's Covenant remains the same. The law, presented as an initiative, has only been partially improved for former SEC pensioners before 2000, and the disparity in pensioners' pensions 2000 and later 2000 has been ignored. The victims of super-retired, BUG-KUR pensioners have never been considered. It is the AKP's government that reduces its welfare share in pensions from 100 per cent to 30 per cent by the law passed in 2008, reducing the monthly binding rate in its pension account. Therefore, much lower pensions are tied than before, and the difference between pensions of former and new pensioners is increasing year after year. Therefore, the AKP government is responsible for the inequality between pensions. See, pensioners have been struggling for eight years to get bank promotion. The AKP government couldn't even pull it off. When everyone's getting a bank promotion, pensioners are treated like stepchildren. Social Security pays pensions over 120 quadrillion liras a year, but pensioners don't get promotions from banks that make these payments. Why can't pensioners get promotions for eight years? Why are you on the side of the interest lobby and not the pensioners? Why have you been letting the interest lobby use their pensions for years? On the other hand, health care is free. You say that, but because of the medical fees, the participation, the prescription money, the box money, the difference fee, the pensions don't even know what the pension is. Today, a significant portion of his pension goes to health cuts. If he finds a pension again, if he runs a business, 15 percent of his pension is cut off. The AKP government, which forgives tax traffickers, black mercenaries, corrupts, is boring the pensioner. He borrows money from the retired shopkeeper, saying, "Why are you working? Every day we get complaints from our retired business owner. From the taxi driver to the store, to the mechanic, from the barber to the restaurant, all of our tradesmen are screaming at the government for these debts. The AKP government doesn't care how much pension you're paying, and your retired business manager says, "Why did you work when you were retired?" he cuts his salary. The AKP government is oppressing the pensioner. The retired shopkeeper, who opens the business, makes it worthwhile, offers young people jobs, should be rewarded. But you should know that the pensioners will bury the AKP in the chest on June 7th after his persecution. Dear lawmakers expect to be discussed on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in an effort to improve pensions as the National Movement Party and to address the inequality and imbalances between pensions. In this proposal, we predict a pension raise to pensioners, widows and orphans, reaching 50 per cent of their pension by reviewing the premiums they pay and the monthly links. Basically, the minimum pension must be raised to over a thousand liras. No pensioner of ours should get a month under the age of hunger. The differences in pensions must be quickly improved, balanced, proportioned. Some participation in health care and pension cuts must be removed. Retirers should not be ignored. No excuses should be made for those who are old in retirement. Our brothers who can't earn a pension because they can't reach minimum pension conditions should be made available to the number of days in retirement, who are living in retirement. The parameters required to connect pensions should be reviewed, and the 30 per cent share of prosperity in updating profits should be reflected at 100 per cent. The increase in pensions should be not only inflation, but a share in growth, and the calculation in this framework should be done with a separate index. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0170par0328	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Mr. Adil Zozani, MP of Hakkari, opposes the proposal of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0171par0330	Fair Zozani, are you against pensioners?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0172par0331	You're gonna talk to me about it?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0170par0332	Mr. Cetin said something... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0334	Mr. Cetin vs. Bazaar, but I'm not against pensioners, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0174par0335	I am the market itself.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0336	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, I am speaking against you on the condition of the form, but it is not possible to be against this motion. Of course, I'm going to speak in favor of the extent of my speech. I salute you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0175par0337	But you said it was against him. I heard him.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0338	Dear lawmakers, now the pensions of pensioners in Turkey have melted by one-third in the last two months, even in the current situation. So there's been a 3% increase or something, but basically every pensioner's salary has melted by a third in the last two months. Melted on what? It melted due to fluctuations in the exchange rate. So, who did these exchange rate fluctuations come in handy for? Well, it sure as hell didn't work out for a pensioner who was paid 800 lira, his takeover rate dropped by one-third in the current position, but the fluctuations on this exchange rate have helped someone. Who did it work for? It's good for people with currency in their bank accounts. Since pensioners don't have currency in their bank accounts, it can be taken over by those who have foreign currency accounts in the banks, especially if they're members of the government, they should be taken over. Because everyone now feels the presence of executives in this country, hoping for profit, who have helped with the fluctuation in the exchange rate and especially with the decline of the value of TLS. Everyone's talking about it, and it's a little naive to think that someone might be thinking about pensioners if they're doing it at the top of the state and they're doing it to make a profit in their bank accounts. Now, look, we've been talking about the internal security bill for about a month, we're talking about the bag bill, it's been a month, but before the internal security bill, there was another bill in the commissions of this House, which was business security. You don't bring the safety of the business, the agenda of the House passed through the commissions as a bill, and the bag is currently waiting during the General Assembly as an offer.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0176par0340	They're worried about Homeland Security, not job security!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0341	You're not bringing work security here, you're bringing Homeland Security.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0176par0342	Four people die every day!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0343	We'll put it next to each other. I'll share some numbers with you in a moment, so you decide which is more urgent. See, in Turkey, the average 1,221 workers lose their lives a year during your administrations, and on average, 1.221 workers lose their lives a year. During the period of the Minister of Labour and Social Security who currently runs the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, 1,600 workers lose their lives every year. In the Middle East war, so many people don't die a year, the average people don't die a year in the Middle East, what internal security are you talking about? Wasn't job security more urgent? If you had brought it here, we could have organized the working conditions of our people, brought human conditions. Why don't you bring it? That's what you need, because it protects you, it doesn't protect business security, the safety of the worker is of no importance to you. In fact, you can offer the height of this rate of death of workers as a matter of honor to the international capital institutions, to the investors you want to invite to Turkey, and look, workers are dying, but the investor doesn't have to pay compensation. Now, what can you guys talk about under such circumstances? Look, the rate of fatal accidents is here for 100,000 people employed in EU countries. This is a graph of Turkey that you see on the probe, 14.3 per 100,000. This is our graph in Turkey's 27 European countries. You're more at a point than all of them combined.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0177par0346	You should also see Turkey compared to the Middle East countries.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0347	A statistics on the mining sector, statistics on 20 EU countries here, I'm saying 11 - 1 in a hundred thousand accidents -- Turkey 171. This is your work. I'll give you another statistic on the death of jobs in the mining sector. I didn't produce these graphs, you can enter them, you can find these graphics very easily from the Internet, and these are graphics from the official institutions of the state, statistics, you can easily find them. There are measures here that can prevent this, reverse this disgrace graph, eliminate job deaths, or minimise them, but why are you so busy with the Parliament's domestic security package? At what cost are you doing this? At the expense of self-preservation, for this. You want to protect yourself. Democracy, principles of equality, etcetera, you don't remember any of it. And because you don't remember, you've lost the ability to look after yourself in the third eye. As a government, you've lost your qualifications as a ruling party, and you don't see yourself. I'll make it clear, I know very well, a speaker of yours will be coming out in a moment, and he'll say, because of the internal security package in our day... we believe it's urgent. That's why... we're already at the end of the legislature. There's no point in setting up a commission. Even if we are on the side, we will no longer set up this commission. This is your explanation. Don't bother, don't come here and talk. We already know what you're talking about here, we understand. Your reflexes are clear about that. Let me tell you something. Second...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0351	Plus, I'm gonna say something else, so I'm gonna say something else.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0352	Why don't you come and sing it here?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0353	I'll be there anyway.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0354	Apparently, you'll be talking.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0355	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0356	You'll answer those, I hope.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0357	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0358	I'll be happy to listen to you, Congressman, if you'll have a word. In relation to these paintings...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0360	But they're not relevant to the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0361	You come here and you answer everything...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0178par0362	About the motion, now, let's talk about it accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0363	We make suggestions, we have suggestions. Read the opposition statements of the business safety package, please read them, where our proposals are very clear and clear. We put suggestions in all of them, we think about them, we read them. We don't come here without reading and participate in legislature activities, so you should know that. We're studying, so you can study. The bread on the pensioner's table gets smaller every day. Life conditions have gone far below human dimensions, and you're keeping people on the edge of starvation. We're talking about the living conditions of 10 million people. This should be your business, this should be your business. Look, there are some 460,000 people who are old in retirement in Turkey. I'd appreciate it, when you get up here, I'd like to know how you're going to solve the problems of people who are living in retirement, and I hope you'll have an answer to that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0179par0366	The Minister of Labor has promised, Mr. Adil.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0173par0367	Mr. Secretary, let him come out here and give me an answer, I hope. Look, you've got these people in straight shirts, and I'm not being ironic, these people are walking around the street in a straight shirt to make themselves visible, to express their problems. Did you see it? You couldn't see it, and every day these people's problems are getting bigger, this flood is growing, it's becoming a flood, it's the problem of these people. This flood will take you away, I assure you, this flood will take you away, but at least God will bless you when you leave. Leave a man behind to pray for you. Turkey is not just a rich country, Turkey is not just a contractor. If you have problems with 77 million people of Turkey -- look, it's on the agenda of parliament -- let's bring in the Law of Business Safety, and let's solve this problem in order to include the problems of our pensioners. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0180par0371	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0181par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to whether or not the National Movement Party's motion to investigate pensioners' problems should be taken into consideration. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech -- today is an important day -- one of the symbols of AKP fascism and police violence is the death anniversary of Berkin Jon. I respect him. From now on, ten years from now, and 20 years from now, Turkey's politics will speak of the period we passed through today, history writers will write today as a black spot, and the likes of Berkin Marvan and Berkin Elvan will be remembered more in this country. Now, pensioners have very serious problems, very serious problems. Of course, it's not easy to explain in a ten-minute period of time, but in a brief summary, we can say that once we're talking about over 10 million people. According to official figures, there are around 6.5 million pensioners in Turkey, including about 2.5 million workers retired, around 2.5 million people and a little over 2 million pensioners, and those pensioners have huge problems. And the ruling party is expected to be much more sensitive to the problems of such a large audience, along with their own people, their spouses, and their children, who have reached a very serious potential for voting, but unfortunately that's not the case. One of the most important problems of pensioners is no doubt about their income. Retirers today try to live under very difficult conditions, with very few possibilities. Much of the pensioners' income is even below the hunger limit in Turkey. See, as of the end of 2014, the lowest agricultural pensioner in the USSR receives 911 lira, the BUG-KUR agricultural pensioner is $611, and the pensioner receives $1,273. This is far below the opportunities for pensioners to participate in an honorable life and social life. See where the pensioners are: Turkey's Retirement Profile Poll was conducted in 2012. This survey produced very interesting results: 84 per cent of pensioners say that our income is inadequate. The percentage of pensioners who depend on others for a living is 30 per cent, so in Turkey, three out of every 10 pensioners say: "I can't get by, I need other people to get by." So, who are they? 73% say they can only live with help from their children, 16 percent say they can live with help from close relatives, 7 percent from the state, 4 percent from the foundation and the foundation. Also, according to this survey, 28 per cent of pensioners are forced to split one-quarter of their salary into food spending only, and 38 per cent are forced to spend half their salary on food spending, 20 per cent are forced to split 3 per cent of their salary into food spending, and 14 per cent are forced to spend all of them on food spending, so think about it, with only the salary they receive, and beyond that, we face a large and large pensioner who can't afford to spend any more. 28 per cent of pensioners live in slums, 27 per cent are tenants, 56 per cent are able to heat their homes with just a stove. Retireds in this situation, under these conditions. Therefore, improving pensions and raising their income to the level they need to live honorably and rightly is a priority. We see that this has not been done during the AKP administrations, and that's why these problems have come to this point today. As the Republican People's Party, we put it in our election declarations as a political priority, not only as much as target inflation to improve pensioners' revenues, but also to give them a share of real growth, real growth and prosperity, and it's one of the main texts of our policies. In Turkey, pensioners will receive the income they need to maintain an honorable life in order to survive in the coming period of the Republican People's Party's rule, and they will provide it, no one will have any doubt. Another problem is the imbalance in wages, pensions. Regarding this, the Republican People's Party strongly advocated and demanded that an agreement be brought to the attention as soon as possible, but it brought an arrangement far from the initiative, which he spent in Parliament. We said it wasn't an attitude, and this legal arrangement didn't allow the cost differences between pensioners' salaries to equalize the status of those in equal condition. Therefore, the Republican People's Party will do so as soon as possible. Third major problem: social security benefits cutbacks. Look, on the one hand, with the economic policies you're implementing, with the price policies you've set, you're keeping pensions below the age of hunger, making pensions unsustainable, while when this pensioner tries to do business for himself, you're also giving him a 15 percent benefit cut. That's not fair. For example, a pensioner who opens a grocery store has to pay a monthly allowance cut to $375. There's about 600,000 pensioners like this. And the Republican People's Party promises that it will also remove the social security premium cuts in the coming period. Another problem with pensioners -- it's not directly related to these pensioners, but indirectly related -- is a matter of age dwellers. See, there are people who can't retire because they're under the relevant legislation, even though they've completed the bonus days of retirement, but they're not old enough. The number of these people, according to the numbers we've been given, is 412 thousand today. So we can all implement an arrangement that will allow a 400K, 500K mass, to be flexible in the parameters of the social security system to retire, and we, the Republican People's Party, side by side. Of course, we're not in favor of fiscal balances, actorial balances, but I think we can make that very comfortable by making some adjustments to the flexibility of the transitional system without destabilizing the actorial balances, without disrupting the financial balances. Another problem: health costs. One of the most important problems of pensioners is health care because these are old people, and a very important part of them are people who have to be on medication all the time, and they have to demand health care a lot more. But their participation in health costs has become a very important problem for pensioners. They have to pay large amounts of fees, such as examination attendance fees, private hospitals, notice rates, early examination fees, medicine and medical equipment. It is imperative that the arrangement be made. One of the most important problems of pensioners is social isolation. It's not just a question of income, there is a need for serious old age policy in Turkey. In fact, old people need to develop a policy, and pensioners are one of the most important axes. See, 72 per cent of pensioners say they don't read newspapers, 88 per cent of pensioners say they don't buy books, 86 per cent say they never go to the theatre, 81 per cent say they never go to the cinema. I mean, we're talking about a large, unintegrated population that's increasingly excluded from social life activities, who's increasingly useless, who's just sitting in their homes, who can't get out, who can't relate to life outside. Therefore, there is a need for a big, strong, framed old age policy, and pensioners are one of the most important elements of it. Another problem with pensioners is that they are not taken as a part of the fee negotiations and they are not to be dealt with as a part of the bargain. Between the public and the government's two lips, there is a situation where they can only receive the fees they set, but their own ideas are not asked, they cannot be turned into a bargaining factor, so as a part of the social society, they cannot see themselves in the process of making decisions as a requirement. This should be removed, too. Therefore, the pensioners' problems are big, we don't have enough time, but we promise you from here that the pensioner, who has the number of 11 million, will be at peace with the Republican People's Party. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0182par0394	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. This is Mr. Fahrettin Poyraz of Bilecik versus the National Movement Group proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0397	My esteemed President, my dear fellow congressmen, first I salute you with my deepest feelings. I have made a commitment to express my group's views regarding the nationalist Action Party's motion to investigate the problems of pensioners and determine the measures that need to be taken. Yeah, we care about the matter, so let's just say that first. Indeed, we are talking about a problem that concerns about about about 10 million people in our society, and we also care about the discussion of this problem, but I also feel that we need to make this determination: Dear friends, as a dear friend of mine says, the current working schedule of the Assembly, although we would like to, is not enough to sit down and talk about it for today at least, to investigate, to set up commissions, and to report it. Let's accept this fact once, but it's important that today, at least on this occasion, be spoken of. In our view, it is also important: Yes, as opposition, you may have asked that the subject be brought up at the point where you can see from your own mind, where you can say the flaws, but in terms of power, when we look at them from our point of view, it will also allow us to express what we did during the period of our twelve or thirteen years of power, during the period of the EC PARTI governments, at the point of identifying and mitigating the problems of pensioners. So, what did we do?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0184par0401	What have you been up to?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0402	So let's say what we've done, and let's say, dear friends, when we look back in 2002, there's a messy structure in the retirement system; we're talking about five different laws, five different structures, and a complex structure in this structure, and there's no standard, no norm union. What's being done? Dear friends, what's done is, first of all, with a system review, with a new system proposal, with a new system model, the entire retirement system is under one roof. If you remember, in the previous system, one of the most fundamental problems, one of the basic problems of our pensioners, the health system had become intertwined, a conundrum...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0185par0405	Now it's even more complicated, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0406	...and there was no standard union, while the pensioners, who were based on the pensioner's crate, took the maximum advantage of health care according to others, while the BUG-KUR people could not benefit from these services, and the SECs were confined only to SEC hospitals, where they were serving. What happened? In addition to that, all our citizens have been given the right to choose their own doctor.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0185par0407	God forbid I say anything else.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0408	More than that, what happened? Especially those of us who are in need of care have been given the opportunity to take advantage of home care. There's a lot more to be said, but which one, let me just say, I'm going to bring it up with just a few examples here, what is that? First of all, the opportunity for early retirement has been brought to mothers with disabled children by paying the premiums they lack. Particulate workers were given the opportunity to retire early in our time by completing their working hours in 30 days. Independent employees were also given the opportunity to receive income from a business accident. And whether you accept it or not, we've also been given the opportunity to receive pensions in their homes. Those who were able to count up to 3.5 million and wanted to retire were allowed to borrow, in particular, under protocol with the People's Bank in 2008, and by the protocol with the Agriculture Bank in 2011. I'm not gonna flood it with numbers, and my time is limited. Dear friends, the problem is important, we are aware of it; we have a lot of work to do, and we are aware of it. But, frankly, I also find it hard to understand, dear friends: we say that right now, the internal security law is on the agenda of the House; yes, let's talk about the internal security law, let's finish, we've just talked about the work law in the back, we've just talked about the work law -- there are provisions related to the work law, my friends. Besides, this is the government that took out the Work Law for the first time and put it into practice. Now, what you're saying is that we're going to block. Isn't there a Constitutional Court in our system, friends? You prepare your reasons, you take what you see as wrong in this law, you take them to the Constitutional Court; if your arguments, your claims are correct, if they are true, the issues that are contrary to the Constitutional Court will be revoked and evaluated. Come on, we've given up the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0186par0411	Then there's no need for Congress.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0412	Mr. President, we've given up the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0187par0413	You always give up on the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0414	We have a general election ahead of us. As all opposition parties, you go out and say: "The citizens are against the domestic security law." That's what all the opposition parties are saying, isn't it? Well, as a ruling party, if we're making a law against a citizen, you have an opportunity, a leverage.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0188par0415	Why were we chosen? To stop something from going against the nation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0183par0416	Go to the squares -- there's a crate in front of us -- three months later, four months later -- and say, "We opposed it, my friends. Look, this AK PARTY is doing this, this, this. Say it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0188par0417	That's what we're gonna say.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0189par0418	The citizen authorized us to tell us the wrong thing, to criticize the wrongs of power.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0188par0419	Let's not sit here, then. There's no need for Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0190par0420	Isn't it the people who are going to decide? You don't honor the House, you don't honor the national will, you don't honor the Constitutional Court. It's the people who make the decision.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0191par0421	Well, then why the Constitutional Commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0190par0422	Please respect the public. If you're saying that there's an election ahead of us, we'll come to power. Here you are, but how far will you get by blocking it?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0192par0423	Just tell me how far you're gonna get with the imposition. Where are you going with the imposition, Mr. Poyraz?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0190par0424	And we're going to go out to the citizens, and we're going to say, "Friends, this is what the law says, in the back, in the bag, in the law, and in the other laws, there were these issues, but the opposition didn't want that either.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0193par0425	Say it, say it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0190par0426	I mean, look, obviously, we thank you very much. I mean, we were having trouble telling our citizens from time to time when the opposition came together on the same subject, but now we've seen that the opposition is strong, as it were, taking over the AK PARTI, doing politics against the AK PARTI. Yeah, well, we were having a hard time explaining that in the square, and you guys got together so well before the election, we're gonna go out there and we're gonna tell people about it, I promise you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0194par0427	Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0195par0428	Tell me, tell me, it's exciting!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0194par0429	He's on the phone with a pensioner from Artvin, saying, "What's he saying?"
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0196par0430	And the best decision will be made when the June election comes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute you all with the most heartfelt of feelings, and since the internal security law is on the agenda, I say I'm against the proposal at the point of discussion of this law, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0197par0434	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0198par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0199par0436	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0197par0437	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0198par0438	You are not respectful of the national will, you are not respectful of the conclusion that came out of the chest, referring to all opposition parties during the speech.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0199par0439	We've been through the same...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0200par0440	That's what we're...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0201par0441	Mr. President, there's some bullying to me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0202par0442	No.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0201par0443	Yes, sir, please let me explain.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0202par0444	No, I'll take turns.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0201par0445	You look, and then...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0202par0446	There's a group of vice presidents first. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0203par0450	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Actually, your honor needs to come out and apologize to this bench.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0204par0452	Here, we're sorry if there's anything wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0203par0453	No political party is running politics here with a disrespectful attitude towards national will, the outcome of the chest. You can't get the equation about the crate right. The Ark is equal to the principle of democracy, and you're misinterpreting it. After the polling, democracy is only possible with the majority of the polls protecting the rights of the minority. Just because a party is in power with the result of the polls, it can't enforce everything it wants by relying on the majority. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0204par0454	The Supreme Court exists for him.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0203par0455	On the contrary, the more you listen to the voice of the opposition, the more virtuous you act in terms of controlability, accountability, the more you consider the separation of forces in this country, the more you maintain democracy. Here, we, the opposition party, are doing our job. When each opposition MP receives a vote from his own constituency, go there, confirm the ruling party's laws, no matter what they bring in. He has not received a vote. We all got votes from voters who had doubts about you, who had concerns, and when we got votes, they said to us, "We don't trust this ruling party. When they bring the laws they want to the Parliament the day after tomorrow, we vote for you to stand before them and do the audit work for us. They said, "The opposition parties are doing it now." So the sentences you use here are extremely unfortunate. I'm telling you, if you really believe in democracy, it's appropriate to come in here and make a statement and apologize to the opposition parties for these words that go beyond your means. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0205par0457	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0206par0458	For the same reason, Mr. President... I mean, he's only talking about the Constitutional Court, disregarding the national will, our existence here. That's why...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0205par0459	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0206par0462	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, Dear Congressman, based on your opinion, then there's no need for opposition parties.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0464	I didn't say that, Hajji, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0206par0465	Let power come, make any law he wants...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0466	Teacher, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0206par0467	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0468	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0206par0469	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0470	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0208par0471	Sir, there's no need for power, Mr. President will take care of them all, and they won't.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0472	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0209par0473	...let the opposition exist, but let him accept them without making a sound, and then let him go to the Constitutional Court and settle the matter. What about friends, I suppose, is it not that political parties are both members of parliament and that their most important duty in democracy is to control power, not to expose the wrongs that the government has done, but to prevent the wrongs that they will do? Now, we carry out this task under the rights vested in us by the Charter. I mean, we're here to make the necessary resistance, and yet, based on your majority, if you can get this law out, if you can get it out, then we can go to the Constitutional Court the way you said we would, and we'll tell people about every mistake you've ever done here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0207par0475	So do we.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0209par0476	Why don't you go ahead and tell them, and see what kind of questions you can come up with?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0210par0477	Everyone be the referee.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0209par0478	And if he does get out of here, that law will already see what that citizen is up against tomorrow, and you won't even be able to face him, and you won't even be able to face him.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0211par0479	You should be happy about this, Hajji. It's up to you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0209par0480	Thus, democracy, where the national will comes from, is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where both power and opposition must act according to the Charter, acting according to the law. If the opposition does not oppose a number of issues, it means that it does not perform its duty, and as a representative of the nation, the nation has not voted for us to sit down, go, and remain silent there, and make the law that it wants to rule. Thus, such an understanding is an insult to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its national will. Please, correct your words on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0211par0482	I didn't say that, Hodja. You're just gonna have to...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0212par0483	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0213par0486	Mr. President, if the worthy MPs are the right one and all the opposition parties are united in this, then you will all return to yourself, dear friends, dear brothers of the AKP. This country's got a lot on its plate. We say don't let the police kill people. A fair demand? It's a legitimate request. What do you think? If the police need to neutralize it, we're against it. Why don't you agree with us on this? If you value human life, you come to the line of opposition. Currently, the opposition advocates democracy, human rights, rule of law in Turkey. You're giving the governors extraordinary powers. We spoke yesterday; the governor of Izmir gets up, publishes a press conference where he can't be held, where he can't be held, where there's going to be a demonstration, my dear friends, before this law is even passed. We say, after this law is passed, you think about what these governors can do. You have to agree with the criticism. Political parties are essential elements of democratic political life. Oh, yeah? Everyone here thinks, everyone makes up their minds, but you have to evaluate the arguments, defenses, and ideas that the opposition has suggested. Now, you say: "We will tell you in the squares. We will tell you. My fellow citizens, today we're talking about women's unemployment, Congress will look into it, the AKP people have rejected it. Now, we're going to vote on a proposal to investigate pensioners' problems, so please let our pensioner pay close attention to this vote. How will the ruling party vote on a motion to investigate pensioners' problems? You were just calling it a challenge, and we're calling it a challenge. There's Aleppo, there's the crown! I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0214par0494	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Zozani...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0215par0496	Mr. President, in my speech earlier, I was the speaker who compared business security to domestic security packages. In his speech, Mr. Poyraz stated by referring to my assessments that we were trying to stop this law from working there, he picked on me, and I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0214par0497	And I promise you, you don't?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0215par0498	Shall I explain, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0214par0499	No, no, I'm saying something else. Yeah, I said I'd promise.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0215par0500	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0216par0501	Mr. President, where did I pronounce the name Zozani?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0215par0502	I'd like to answer that on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0217par0503	I told you I'd promise, and I'm saying something nice.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0215par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0218par0505	Mr. President, where did I pronounce Zozani? Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0217par0506	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0218par0507	Where did I pronounce the gentleman's name?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0219par0508	Mr. President, I'd like to answer your question on the stand as well.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0220par0509	She quoted him from his speech.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0221par0510	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0219par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, from time to time, the opposition party also uses the concept of obstruction, I don't think it's right, we don't try to stop it. We reveal efforts to correct a wronged law. We're in a correctional process; we're trying to fix it, we're trying to fix it, we're trying to make it right, we're trying to make it right. So we're not trying to get the law out of here. We're here to get the right laws out of here, to get the law done right. Now, if there's anything missing from our audition here, the Constitutional Court comes in there, so I'm telling you. But I'll tell you something else, I assure you, you're the only one with a domestic security problem in Turkey, and you know how he is? Don't mess with security, there's no internal security problem in Turkey. How do I say it? Look, dear friends, if you take care of your street cop, you take care of the cop on the street, you take care of the cop who shot the kids in broad daylight, you give them the fine, you run the law for them, there's no internal security problem in Turkey. Were they or were they not identified with police surveillance footage? Have the police been identified or not, putting explosives on the side of the road in this country? It's been detected. When was it detected? Just a month or two ago, just a month or two ago.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0222par0516	Mr. President, where's the answer for me? In which sentence does he have an answer to my statement?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0219par0517	Look, 184 children's names were counted here, 184 children's names were mentioned here, which of whom was a punishment for the perpetrator? Enes Ata died in front of the cameras, nine-year-old Enes Ata died in front of the cameras. Did you or did you not judge the police who shot Enes Ata (Ata)? Homeland security, yes, you do because you're your own problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0223par0520	Nationalist...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0224par0526	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0223par0527	There is a request for a roll call before the nationalist movement group submits its proposal to your votes. Mr. Gök, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Köse, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Günal, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tüyl, Mr. Tunayligil, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Susam, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Sütmen, Mr. Elector, Mr. Irbeç. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0225par0536	Mr. President, we want to investigate the pensioners' problems. Yes, let all our citizens see, the investigation of the pensioners' problems has been rejected by the AKP's votes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0226par0537	We'll do what's necessary, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0225par0538	Let the record show, Mr. President, that the proposal to investigate pensioners' problems has been rejected by the AKP MPs' votes. It's a good idea for all our Turkish citizens to know that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0227par0539	Sir, the government is conducting a variety of studies on pensioners, giving a wide range of rights, not just here, not that kind of research proposal. So, it's propaganda, nothing more.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0228par0540	After the entire House's work agenda was over, the gentlemen were studying!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0229par0541	According to Article 58, there is a request to correct a statement. Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu is a member of Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0230par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, I made a statement regarding additional indicators of police personnel. During this talk, I stated that the AKP governments knew about the police's problems but remained indifferent to them. I want to correct that statement in the form of "they didn't deliver." Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, there's been a debate about the AKP's candidate for deputy candidate and return of MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan, who has been spoken for several days. In this discussion, Hakan Fidan, who has given up his candidacy for parliament, has been reassigned as Undersecretary of MIT. It's said there's a legal procedure for society, but that's not true. The 14th article of the MIT Law stipulates that if those assigned to the OSCE's operational staff leave in less than five years, at least five years will pass before they can be reassigned. On 17 April 2010, Hakan Fidan was appointed Assistant Assistant Secretary of the MIT. This -- has been reported -- is a copy of the daily Milliyet dated April 17, 2010, which shows that Sabah's copy dated April 17, 2010 was appointed as Deputy Deputy Prime Minister Hakan Fidan. Now, we're told that this appointment is legal, but according to the MIT Law, it is not possible to appoint Hakan Fidan. In Wikipedia, the background of Hakan Fidan will be shown. It is said here that he was appointed Assistant Assistant Secretary of the MIT on April 17, 2009...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0231par0550	Look, look, look, they're faking it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0230par0551	...but yesterday there were dozens of changes to the pages of Hakan Fidan. In Wikipedia, so false documents were produced, and the Prime Minister is not telling the public the truth through this forged document. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The President of the Parliament is violating the Constitution, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament is violating the Civil Charter, the Minister of Interior says I do not know Anayasa.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0232par0554	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0230par0555	If they don't know the Constitution, one day someone will come along. We don't know this President and this Minister, this government. It's called anarchy and chaos. I'm warning you. I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit03spe0233par0558	Thank you, Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0233par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0234par0002	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0233par0003	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0234par0006	Now -- in terms of recordings -- the first appointment of the Undersecretary of MIT was appointed on April 17, 2010, and the newspapers are all over it, assigned to the Undersecretary, and appointed to the Undersecretary in May. For this reason, the National Security Council was convened, and on February 19, 2010, the National Security Board was convened. Now, it's a very important matter, of course. Both violations of the MIT Law and violations of normal procedures are revealed, as well as an abuse of the duties of many civil servants and officers. Although the Undersecretary of MIT, of course, was not published in the Official Gazette, the date for which he was appointed to be the first Assistant Undersecretary in all newspapers is April 17, 2010, and the date for which he was appointed as Undersecretary -- right after that -- is May 2010. For this reason, the National Security Council meeting was held because the decision of the National Security Council to appoint the Undersecretary according to the MIT Law requires the approval of the Prime Minister's suicide and the President. Thus, a decision was made at the National Security Council meeting on February 19, 2010 regarding the Undersecretary of MIT. The undersecretary resigned on February 7, 2015, and left his post in the 10th. I mean, nine days before the NSA meeting, he was completely relieved of his duties, five years later, and it was a matter of reassignment. Now, by the time he resigned, the National Security Council was not convened because the law requires the approval of the National Security Council. The National Security Council can't be appointed because it's not assembled. Therefore, this appointment is wrong because it has not completed five years, and it is wrong because the National Security Council meeting has not been decided. Thus, all of them, including those who signed it, are guilty, including all of his current salaries. So an undersecretary who hasn't served five years can't be reinstated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, it is against the law. Those responsible will be accounted for when the time comes, and we want everyone to know.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0235par0011	Teacher, you're missing the law. Read 59,000,000 of the Law of State Officers.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0234par0012	According to the State Officers' Law, if you resign from the public office twice, you will not be appointed for the third time.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0236par0013	There are exceptions. Take a look at them, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0237par0014	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's 11/3/2015 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. A parliamentary survey motion issued on 9/5/2013 to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the Flood Köse and 19 MPs in the tourism field of the province of Çorum (904 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (11/3/2015/2015), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favor of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Flood Köse. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0238par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, before I begin my talk, a year ago, I remember from this place the man who was gunned down by a child, and killed by a rifle. I want all my citizens to know that the fascist hands that point a gun at him will one day be broken. My dear friends, we will also discuss the tourism of Corum, and we will talk about the industry; we will talk about the abundance today. I, first of all, want to tell you about Chorum. The majority is a city in Central Black Sea, Central Anatolia, which has developed its industry in Turkey with its own hard work, with its own entrepreneurs working. To put it this way, the stock is a city that is branded in certain sectors, producing above the Turkish average in certain sectors. For example, the tile industry does 40 per cent of the production in Turkey. In total, 25 per cent of egg exports are funded. Again, Turkey has a say in the brick industry with about 10 per cent production. Again, the machine industry is very advanced in justice, and in many branches it really has come to a certain point with the entrepreneurial spirit of its own entrepreneurs. But the stock industry has never been supported by the government. We have two government investments, one cement and one sugar industry. The cement has been privatized in the past, and the sugar industry will probably be one of the industries to be privatized with the Candy Law. Now, I'm saying the stock industry isn't getting any better. Why isn't he leaving? For example, a public hospital is being built in Çorum. The condition of the construction of a state hospital states that the outer walls will be built with concrete. How can you run the use of gas concrete to a government hospital built in Çorumite, when my brother has a say in the brick industry in Turkey? (CHEERING) Can you think of such a thing or not? Now, we're saying the industry is not getting any better. There's only one thing the stock industrialists expect from the government; they don't expect us to be encouraged, invest or anything like that. What does he want? He wants the railroad. Now, they want an airway, including our members of law enforcement, and so do our Council of Ministers. Here, he's been put into the government program, sir, no, they've been doing their work, they've been tendered. I'm looking at the brochure of the State Railways, and there's no high-speed railways to be built until 2023. And on the way back, I looked at the 2014 budget, looked at the 2015 budget, and there was no grant. But worse than that, our stock industry wants... Of course, he wants a fast train, but he also wants a conventional railway, which is directed towards transportation. The development of the stock industry is only possible by freight train. We all know there's no improvement in this. Now, my dear friends, agriculture is going backwards in Corrum. It's a pity you can't do watery agriculture in the stocks. Now, in the name of watery agriculture, there are two projects in Corrum: one is the Koçhisar Dam, one is the Obruk Dutludere irrigation canal tender. One of them has an investment amount of $229 million, $45 million spent, this year's funding is only $5,000. The investment price for the Obruk Dutludere watering is 82 thousand liras, around 5,000 liras -- a sum of about $5 million -- has been spent, and the money for this year is $10 million. So there's nothing to be done in the name of watery agriculture. In most cases, livestock also goes back, and sugar beets agriculture from the privatisation of sugar factories goes back. By the way, when you say sugar... We have a really good technology, working, profiting sugar factory, and we have 110 temps in our sugar factory. For nearly 18 years, for twenty-seven years, there have been workers -- four months a year -- who have given their youth, their lifetimes there, and have become masters and masters. Now, the Candy Factories Anonymous Company says that I will hire 480 workers across Turkey. With what? My brother, what will happen to these workers, those who put their youth there? In this way, business peace is breaking down both in Çorum and throughout Turkey, I'm afraid. Now, my dear friends, I said there are no railroads in Çorum, and there are no investments in watering. So, is there an investment in land roads? Our friends are coming, and I think the Deputy Prime Minister's here, and Bulent Arinc is here, and he says, "We're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it." He had come when he laid the foundation of the hospital, when he laid the foundation of the Scyclical Atef Hodja Hospital. I looked at him today, and what did they do in Chorum about Istil-Tosya? They started in 1999, finished in 2011. It was said that in 2013, the last time they called it was 2017. There's 39,000 investments, 19,000 dollars spent, this year's funding is funny, they put up 51,000 liras. I mean, it's not the place to go out there and show off, and go out there and fool the poor. Again, they set up a two-dollar grant, and a two-dollar grant, concerning the way that came from Iskelip to Çanrı. They put in a funny grant.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0239par0038	Don't get me wrong, there's an auction on Iskil-Translope.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0238par0039	Hospital investments are the same. My dear friends, the Most One is deceived, and the Most One is not able to serve, but there is a strange discrimination in the ministry he has received. Our village chiefs are so scared, our village chiefs are so scared. You know what they're afraid of? They're going, let's say they're going to invest in their village, and they're going to put up two lists: one, how many are your populations, your villages? The population is 50, 100, 200, whatever; it's not enough, how many votes have been cast on AKP? How many votes did the AKP vote? We'll take a look at him. They call him. Now, I'm going to tell you something about that. Look, listen carefully, friends, I'm not saying anything else, but there are 42 villages in the center, five villages, five villages, five villages, the Republican People's Party, with a lot of votes. In 37 villages, the AKP had a lot of votes, and 37 villages were made with key stones. Don't misunderstand the votes in the majority; 120 votes, zero votes in the stock; 80 votes, zero votes; 320 votes, zero votes, so that's the distribution of votes. Look, it's like that again in Sungurlu, in 72 villages where CHP has voted, in 72 villages where people live... 1,300 villages totaling 5 villages, all of them from AKP. The five villages in Uğurludağ have been made a key stone, all of them from AKP. Look, there are 4,271 square metres of keystones in the village of Sledgehammer of 189 inhabitants; 400 inhabitants of Küçükerikli village, zero, no sewers. Alaca hakeza is, nine AKP people, two CHP people. The village of Jesus tree, of 120 inhabitants, has a key stone of 950 square meters, with a population of 134 inhabitants, 3.485 square meters. So social peace is also breaking down in Çorum, and social peace is breaking down. For example, the Republican People's Party took the Oğuz Municipality this year. In 2004 and 2006, there was a frosting incident, and the only source of livelihood was frozen. In 2004, the Oğuz, which was a natural disaster in 2006, were not part of the natural disaster, as the municipality switched to CHP in 2014. Isn't that discrimination? Now, my dear friends, I'll give you the names of the villages, but it's not enough. The village of Büğit has a population of 567, has taken 6,975 square metres; another village, a much smaller village, has taken three times that. My dear friends, things aren't going well in Çorum. Last time I gave a speech here, I said, "Well, workers are being distributed without working for the community, but they're very little given where the CHP municipalities are, without working for the community." Mr. Salim has come out well, we've given everyone as much as they need." he said. I want to say it again, what's the need for? Let Mr. Nice hear it from here and see the quotas without working for the community. I'm going to find out right now, for example, the AKP municipalities of 89,700 inhabitants have been given 287 quotas, the CHP municipalities of 11,300 inhabitants have been given 11 and the mp of the population of 34,200 inhabitants have been given 10. Look, very interesting example, friends, listen well: 1,200 people of Boskale, AKP, 23 quotas; 33,000 inhabitants of Sungur -- which is separated from Sütukkale Sungurlu -- 5 quotas. Where's the justice in that, where's the development? I mean, there's no justice, there's no development, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0240par0045	Yeah, the mayors of the opposition don't work.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0241par0046	Follow me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0238par0047	Look, here, here are all the samples. Carbine Hakeza, 5, 000 people, 28,000 people, 5,000 inhabitants, Megitözu 5. Isn't that a shame, guys? Isn't that a shame? Look, I said you're disrupting social peace at Çorum. There's Hüfzü Veldet Velidegoğlu in the country, the professor of the Ordinariat who translated Nuutuk (Nutuk) into Turkish as Tavv. He's a member of the Constitutional Commission in 1961; whoever he touched in the park, the Mayor removed him, gave him another name, unfortunately gave him another name. My dear friends, aren't you, of course, disrupting social peace in Çorum, and breaking it in Turkey? I mean, if you only break social peace in the stock market, let's say it's a sacrifice to the AKP, a sacrifice to the AKP, but you're breaking it in Turkey as well. You searched the cosmic room for a full month, saying that you had assassinated Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0242par0051	What does that have to do with anything? And thou shalt stay in the Corum, and thou shalt stay in the Corum.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0238par0052	It's got a lot to do with it. I'll be right back. You're either going to close the Republican People's Party now or you're going to search for the alleged assassination of Sümeyya. Now that you mention it, listen carefully. It says three children, five children, Mr. President, I've looked at our President's grandchildren now, and I swear to God, I won't tell them the number, so let them go online, and let them find out how many grandchildren of our President's four children are.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0243par0055	They're younger, they'll do it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0238par0056	So this doesn't work by telling people, you're going to do it yourself, you're going to do it first, you're going to be with the truth first, or there's not going to be justice, there's not going to be development.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0244par0058	So there's no responsibility, just a wish.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0245par0059	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0246par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0245par0061	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0246par0062	By mentioning my name, he said we were unfair, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0245par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0246par0067	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to point out what Mr. Köse puts into mind. They once said industry isn't going well, because of the incentives and support we provide, the unemployment rate has dropped to 5 per cent. The railroad is in the government program. He will also announce the history of a two-line two-line railway construction when our Prime Minister goes to Çorum. The watering began in Alaca, and it will end in three stages. I'd like to express it in particular. There is no attempt to break social peace, there is no discrimination. As a matter of fact, our mayor, the Mechitsuru, mentioned by Mr. Flood Köse, came to me with him. We helped with the drinking water. We sent a $550,000 grant water pipe. We wouldn't do that if there was discrimination. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, we sent a garbage truck to the city of Lacin. They sent us a thank-you message in front of the car. Other than that, we didn't give anyone else to Çorum City Hall to work for the community. More than justice, a man is sent there, wherever he is, whatever he needs. That's not us, it's the ICRU. I'd like to mention that in particular. Besides that, the Shendere Dam in Uðurludağ was given a tender right there -- 54 villages needed water. Eight million dollars has been sent there. It'll be over soon. I think if Mr. Köse came to us instead of telling us, if he had information from us, at least we would have given him the right information. He knows that, but he has to say that here politically.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0247par0078	The Ministry will give you that information. Why would he come to you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0246par0079	It's a city of peace and quiet. He's covered his wounds in the past. He's getting his share of non-development rightly, and we, lawmakers, are working miserably, without giving him a chance to discriminate. I wanted to present it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0248par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0249par0082	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0248par0083	Mr. Goody must have teased me by saying my name. I want to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0250par0084	He didn't say anything. He said we're all lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0251par0085	He meant you, too.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0252par0086	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0253par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Nice, of course, he gave his own answers. Mr. Nice is a friend of ours from Corrum. We talk to him from time to time, but I'm telling him the exact numbers, Mr. Goody, I'm not saying anything. Look, it's obvious. It is a town with 1,200 inhabitants of the Bosphorus. Look, guys, 1,200 people, 23 non-communist employees, 33,000 Sungur people, got 5 of them. I mean, I don't know how to explain it, I don't know about it. Look, it's very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0254par0090	There's a lot of work there, a lot of work there.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0255par0091	It was only given to the public, and it was never given to the people.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0253par0092	No, he wants it too much. He's very good. Now, the Mechitsu is the same, Kargü... one takes 28 and one takes 5. Both have a population of five thousand. I mean, I don't know how to explain it. Now, I'm saying the irrigation isn't getting any better. Look, there's the Koçhisar Dam in the...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0256par0095	How much was invested?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0253par0096	I got it from the budget, I got it from the budget. $229 million, $45 million spent. This year's grant is $5 million. Very little, isn't it? Obruk Dutludere, $10 million this year's grant. I said the road. The funding on the Iskil-Tosya road is very low this year. I just told you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0257par0099	We spent 60 million on it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0253par0100	The investment is written here, Mr. Nice, the investment is written here, it says here: $2,000. I mean, it hasn't been done in years, it hasn't been done in years. Look, the funding sent to Iskıl State Hospital is very low this year. Look, I'll tell you right now. Here are the official records, your records. Two thousand liras goes to Iskıl State Hospital, two million dollars goes to Iskilp State Hospital. We're calling it "Cross State Hospital." There's an investment worth 166,000 liras, 20,000 liras, 20 million liras. I mean, how are we gonna end up with these grants? In the keystone case, dear friends, there's a clear distinction. There's a clear distinction between the people who voted for the AKP and the villages who voted for CHP. There's no justice, there's no development.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0258par0104	Don't swear, don't swear. Look, you'll get hit.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0253par0105	I would never agree to that. There is indeed discrimination. I'm not saying anything else, I'm not saying anything else. I'll let you know if there's anything else. There is a clear distinction between the villages of CHP and AKP voters. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0259par0108	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Cahit Bağcı, Corrum MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0115	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you. I remind you of the group proposal of the Republican People's Party: the group proposal signed by him as the first signature, signed by nine Republican People's Party MPs, the problems of tourism in Çorum. Dear friends, have you heard a single sentence about tourism here from Mr. Kose? You haven't heard. I understand the concern of Mr. Köse, of course, to present a photo of a stock shrinking from this bench for the Chorum these days. I see it as a political assessment, and an evaluation for your choice, but I'd like to call it an injustice to Chorus. Dear friends...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0261par0119	What's he doing to Choruma, what's he going to do to the palace?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0120	You've been singing palace song here for a month, and we've been talking about investments in Turkey for thirteen years. Dear friends, Mr. Köse Çorum said that he was getting smaller. In 13 years, municipal investments were spent $8.5 billion, including municipal expenses. 5.8 billion TL is public investment, which is 5.8 billion euros in investments from the central management budget. No irrigation project has been tendered today, Mr. Köse. The Mad Watering Project will be tendered in the coming days. A project that will water 11,000 acres of land in the district of Kızılırmak will be tendered in the coming days. Let me tell you, as a member of the State Planning Agency, Mr. Kose, you have to read the numbers well, understand them well. Look, if there's a number in an investment program here, it's a 10% grant for him to be auctioned off, so that the job can be tendered. It's what we call a start-up grant. Now Mr. Köse has made an assessment of the iron route here -- I checked with the State Railways, I followed it -- no. In the 62nd Government Programme, the Prime Minister said that the railway will be built in 2023 of his iron targets, including Çorum. It's not enough, it's in the 2015 investment program. Now, let me tell you the page of the investment program, my dear friends. Concerned organisation: State Railways of the Republic of Turkey. The name of the project is study project work. Project code: 2015E0080... It's called the Brokenkale-Sorum-Samsun Iron Road Project. Start and end dates: start in 2015, end in 2016. Payment: A total of $10 million, $2 million initial grant has been put into place, and the information we received from the State Railway has just been expressed by Mr. Nice. The Brokenkale-Samsun Iron Road Project, a two-line, conventional -- as it stands for itself -- will be tendered for a railway project that will meet the expectations of the majority and especially do cargo transport and passenger transport together in the coming days. I wish you well from here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0262par0125	Cahit Abi, there's a crevice, and there's Samsun.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0126	Fractured-Sorum-Samsun. Good luck with the cranberry. There will be a station in Sungurlu, and there will be a station near the Organised Industry; and it will reach the center, Merzifon, the basin, the Kabat, and Samsun.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0263par0127	Tell me how many years it'll last!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0128	We'll complete his project in two years, hopefully in 2017, when he gets into the investment program, we'll, uh, we'll invite you guys, we'll hit the dig, we'll throw concrete together.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0263par0129	Whoa!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0130	Dear friends, here's the other thing: it's a map of the Corum railway and it's taken from the bookshop presented to Plan Budget by our Minister of Transport in these investment talks. This pamphlet is distributed to members of the Budget Commission here. Speaking of which, Mr. Köse here tried to present a picture of the Rorum that was shrinking while it was on the agenda. Compromise, dear friends, is a province with more imports than exports. It's about $300 million in foreign trade, exporting $187 million, exporting a lot of money, and I'm drawing your attention to that, especially because exports are not written in the Stock Exchange through the Gulf, the Marmara region. We've expressed our initiatives in this and in the Plan Budget Commission. Wherever the production is being written, the marketing company is in Istanbul or Marmara Region, in Kopeeli. For example, a company we know is exporting through Jalova, the capital of Yalova, but is producing in Corrum. It is one of the highest living places in its own home, one of the largest cities per capita, which gives more foreign trade and reduces Turkey's current deficit and reduces unemployment by six per cent. Its share of national income and prosperity are one of the highest cities.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0263par0132	Yeah, immigration, immigration.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0260par0133	Let's get the numbers right. Dear friends, last but not least, Mr. Köse Çorum, has never made an assessment of tourism, but I would like to give you a number. There is a Çorum Museum in the country; we have a museum in Bosphorusköy; one of the works that were attempted to return to their homeland by the initiative of our Ministry of Culture has been restored to Sphinks Bosphorus. We have a museum in Bosphorus, we have a museum in Alacahöyük, and hopefully we'll build a museum in Ortaköy. In the meantime, our initiatives to establish a tourist university in Çorum are continuing, depending on our Hitit University. Thank you to our president, and he's making a great effort. It's an investment in the Higher Education Board. Finally, my dear friends, let me give you the final numbers concerning Corrum, and let Mr. Kose hear. In 2010, I give you the number of accommodation in both tourism and municipal document facilities: a total of 94 thousand in 2010, 19,000 in 2012, and a total of 182,000 in 2014. There are more detailed numbers, which have visited our museum, when, how many have visited our museum, what are tourism revenues, what are the expenditures in this area, and I don't want to mention them because he didn't make an assessment of the research proposal he signed. Finally, I don't find it right for our villages to form an opinion that there has been discrimination by subjecting them to an assessment, so this village is Sunni village, this village is Alevi village. But he gave me some village names. I'll give you examples of the villages I was born in -- and he knows very well himself -- our village of Mehmetdededeteksi was made of stone, our village of Obruk was made of stone locked, our village of Kumbaba was made of stone locked, our village of Inegazli was made of stone; all of them -- I am a MP since 2007 -- when I remember. There are other villages. The last of the Dodurga, Lacin, Osmancık triangles, the Skyeyes, which you've been through all the time, are also equipped with 6,000 square metres of locked stone in our village. We don't discriminate in any of our villages, nor in the Obruk-Dutludere Watering Project, Mr. Kose, one of our villages you use most to mention your name. I've been able to share with you my assessments, my thoughts on Chorum, with these feelings and thoughts, on the basis of the Republican People's Party's proposal -- although it is not discussed today. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0264par0141	He said I gave him false information by mentioning my name.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0265par0142	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0264par0145	And I thank him, and I thank him, and they give me an opportunity to explain. Now, if they look at Mr. Governor's statements that Corrum tourism is going backwards -- in December and January -- they'll already see it. The Governor has explained, we have broken our shell in industry and in agriculture. In tourism, I'll bring him out of the darkness. So tourism is in the dark. It's as simple as that. The Governor's statements... Now, dear friends, he's in the government program. Now, it's in the government program, so it's true, he explained it, he said it here. But look, you're going to finish in 2013. It's 2011. I'm talking with official documents here. In 2011, you said: "We will finish in 2013." Where, for example? So let's say that the Bayfather's Bridge in Çorum, in 2014, you put it in 2017. So you've been suspended for three years in three years. And even less funding, and at this rate, it won't be done in eight or ten years. I mean, the railroad in the Corum is not something that can be done. These were, of course, a little bit, perhaps to advertise to Corrum, but I was a member of the State Railways Board of CIT -- two years ago, two years ago, he made a map in his own brochure. Unfortunately, there is no fast train line leading from Cırıkkale to Çorum. Unfortunately, in 2018.....it will be finished in 2016. Let's see how it ends after 2023. They don't exist either, and they're all visible when you go online, so we're going to do it. There's no way they're going to grow up with the funds you're spending on the dates you call them. Thank you for the Mehmetdeobruk. Mr. Bağcı is a village, it's a region, so I'll tell you that, but I gave you the numbers, Mr. Bağcı, one Mehmetdeobruk doesn't save the job, believe me, you know that. You come in here, you say, but I didn't speak to any sect, you know, you did. The villages that have little votes for the Republican People's Party are both in the lockstone and in the sewers... look, there's Sergeantville in Chorum, 300 people, there's no more sewers, we've given up the key stone. Now, they've got it on the project, and maybe they can turn it down because I said it, and that's a danger. The stockholders are afraid, simple as that.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0266par0150	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group proposal has no word in its favor. Against Mr. Ramazan Can.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0267par0157	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a promise on the CHP group proposal. So here, of course, when we look at the proposal, it's about tourism problems, but there's no talk of tourism, so let me talk about tourism. It is the gateway of the Black Sea region to the inner Anatolian region. It has a unique position in the cultural mosaic of Anatolia. The city of Hattusha, the capital of the Hititites, which established the first organised state in Çorum, which was found in cultural data from 7,000 years ago, is Hattusha. In the heart of Anatolia, Hattusha is one of the nine values of our country, which was taken into the World Cultural Heritage List by UNESCO. It was discovered by the French architect in 1834. Hititian civilization is a rich civilization as old as Egyptian civilization. The text tablets of the Gadesh Agreement between the Hitlerites and the Egyptians were also found in Boskale. The other key center of the Hitites is the Alacahöyük tomb of 13 kings, Hatti Tunç Sun School, and Sphinxy gates, known as the Arinna (Arinna). In addition to the Hititian civilization, Seljuklu and Ottoman-era mosques, bridges and fortresses are rich in Tourism with fine water canyons and other beautys. His famous lebleb is known to the world for its Ottoman Carpilla rice. The ancient tombs of Alacahöyük and Boskale are from the period of Hitit and Frig. In particular, recently, our MPs, Mr. Murat Yıldırım, Salim Beslim and Cahit Bağcı, have become a major brand city. Again, Çorum's mayor, Mr. Muzaffer, who has been mayor for two semesters, has been the shining star of Anatolia. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I present the group's proposal to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0268par0166	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0269par0169	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit04spe0268par0170	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Kösse, Mr. Örse, Mr. Öner, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tüymen, Mr. Ayadım, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Clean, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Aldan. I'll start roll call, give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. We're going to vote for the two members of the Republican People's Party Group, which are empty in the Constitutional Commission. I'll put the candidates to a separate vote. Our first candidate is Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... It's unanimous. Our second candidate, Mr. Omar Süha Aldan. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0268par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Police and Salahiye Act; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services; Çanakkale MP Mr İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment in the Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koshan's Law Proposal for the Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP for the Law on Humanity Services; Mr. Lsakkale MP İskdemir Kashdemir's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Husbandship of Human Rights of Human Rights on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and the Council of Human Rights Act on Human Rights; We will Proposal Law on the Constitution; We shall Proposition of Peace and Proposals on the Constitution of Security of Security of Peace of Peace of Security of Security of Peace and Security of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on Human Law on Human Law on the Security of Security and Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security and Security and Security of Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of Security of the Security of Security of Security of Human Law on the Security of Security of the Security of Security of Security of Security of Human. of Peace and Security and Security of Human. of Human. of the Council of the Council of the Council of Human. of Human. of the Council of the Council of Human. of Human.. Government and Commission? He's in position. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the following amendment, which was considered the basic law, was adopted in the third part of the draft. There are two motions for a new clause, and I now read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws of Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Population Services Act; Law on Humanity Services Act, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal Proposal Proposition for Amendments in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Order for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on Human Rights Act; İstanbul Council of Law on Human Rights, 2-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4-4. "EK MADDE 2-Kil is the commander of the gendarme and the governor of the district of the central district of the gendarmes....about the commander of the district of the gendarmes..
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0270par0029	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0268par0030	He's out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Human Rights Act on Human Rights Laws Laws Office; The Law on Human Rights and Agreement of Humanity of Humanment of Peace; The Law on Peace of Humanity of Humanity of Peace; İstanbul Council of Humanity and Agreement; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanity; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanity; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul (Bonships) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0271par0033	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0268par0034	He's out. There are three motions in Article 57, one of which is an anti-constitutional motion, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice Minister of Humanity Services, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Laws and the Law on Human Rights Act on Human Rights; The Law on Human Rights Act of Human Rights; Agreement of Human Rights and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Law on Humanity; The Law on Humanity (Biment). "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the district commanders and police commanders and the planning of relevant commanders are given with the approval of local property managers." We offer and propose that the 57th article in the form be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Işım Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Article 3 of the Law No. 57 - 2803 has been changed as follows. "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the commanders of the province and the district police officers and police commanders are granted with the proper opinion of the local property managers, in accordance with the planning of the relevant commanders." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "Addition 3 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the commanders of the province and the district police officers and police commanders and the planning of the relevant commanders are given with the approval of the local property managers, 57. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer The current motion is the Constitutional Amendment motion, which I shall have read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the bill of law shall be taken out of the bill due to violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the one party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and the police state, and the actual "war state" of law. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0272par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0268par0068	Your Honor, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0273par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0268par0070	Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0274par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now aware that we are talking about what you really care about most in this bill. So if we give you these materials somehow, use them, and the rest is all empty, you won't object, we know that. But look, when you're making these arrangements, you're basically not aware that you're making legal cover for the past unsubs. There's a rule in the law that the regulations of the Lehe are run backwards. When these arrangements are carried out in this manner, you will have somehow covered all unsolved murders in the past years. You'll be setting up a legal basis for the dismissal of government officials who kill children in broad daylight in the middle of the street. That's why we object. We say they shouldn't have these arrangements in this way. Or, we've recently said several times: is there any blame for the Carabinieri's commitment to the Ministry of Interior? Now, you can change the way law enforcement operates, the hierarchy; it's in your saving, you can; Parliament, the political will can make such a arrangement together, we have no objection, but we say we have to do it by removing the contradictions in doing it. I told you the other day, and I told you today, we're just talking about these things, and if you're actually doing this sort of arrangement... Look, he's sitting right behind you, people of the same rank, sitting here from this rank, they'll get $100,000 when they retire, but when they retire from the rank of general, they'll get $1.5 million. Here, if you're fixing it, fix it, and then we'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0275par0076	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit05spe0276par0077	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0276par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Mr. Adil Zozani and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 57 of the Law Bill 684. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposition for Change; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal's Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Information; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanity and the Law on Human Rights Council of Law; İstanbul Laws Office on Laws and the Laws of Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Laws; İstanbul Laws Offices Law on the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law and the Laws Office of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Law on the Law on the Law on Laws and Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on Human Law and the Law and the Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; The Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Human; İstanbul; The Law on Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Office of Human Rights Offices Offices Offices and Laws and the Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights; "Addition 3 of Law 2803 has been changed in the following way. "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the district commanders and the police commanders and the planning of the relevant commanders are given with the approval of the local property managers 57 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0277par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0276par0015	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0278par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0276par0017	Mr. Serindağ, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0279par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Article 57 arranges permission for the officers and petty officers. In fact, public officials' permit problems may not seem to be the problem that needs to be focused on so much. However, the arrangement here shows that saving for the gendarme is not just a provision required by public services, but rather a provision that leads the gendarme to politicalisation, which is also the issue of the permit. Now, what does the item say? The permissions of police commanders and police commanders and police commanders, and the planning of relevant commanders, are given with the approval of their local property managers. That can't be thought of, is that necessary? It was supposed to be here: the owner of the property gets annual approval, but the authority to determine the time of the permit is left to his closest superior, his closest commander, here. That's what it was supposed to be, but they don't do it that way, but they do it in a way that will cut him off from his closest superior. Now, we've talked a lot about this bill, and we've talked a lot about the challenges this bill will bring. Even without this bill, clues to how some governors will act gradually appear. For example, Izmir Governor made a decision and sent it to all public institutions, NGOs. I don't know, maybe you've got this, read this decision, there are measures here that are similar to martial law practices. So, according to this decision, in Izmir, if this decision is obeyed, no NGO can make a proper press release, a meeting, a demonstration march, and he can't express his opinion freely. This is an arrangement before the bill comes out; you go to the arrangements after the bill comes out, see. What's he saying? The basics of the constitution, 25, 26, and 34, speak of the freedom and freedom of expression of such freedom -- I mean, Governor -- to speak of the existence of such freedom -- by true and legal individuals -- are being used under the name of the press as a public statement, causing public order and noise pollution, making it difficult for the public to meet the mandatory needs, preventing peace and silence. What's he doing? Sir, he's creating noise pollution, creating pollution, no sir, it's affecting people's daily lives. Every meeting and demonstration march, including a press release, is made to attract people's attention. Why else would it be done? It doesn't mean anything else. If you want to get people's attention, you can make a press conference or a meeting about it. Is there any point in having a meeting that won't attract attention? But, my dear friends, that's what makes it difficult now. Guys, doesn't that give you an idea? Look, you will deal with it, and there will be no opposition, and you will deal with it. You're politicizing the carabinieri, you've already politicized the police. That's what a member of parliament had said before, the order was tendered to the congregation. He said, "You're doing it now." Once you've created your own security power, you want to bring society into the fold like this. This society explodes at some point, we keep warning it that if you destroy the meeting and demonstration march like this, if you take people to the funeral, if you stop people from getting together, this society explodes at some point, everybody gets hurt, and you get the most of it. Look, don't ever forget that. The gendarmes are not only in Turkey, they are in many countries of the European Union: there is in France, there is in Italy, there is in Portugal, there is in Spain. My dear friends, even important foreign diplomatic missions in Italy and France are protected by the gendarmes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is a coast guard duty in Italy. The gendarme protects the Prime Ministership, Parliament, the presidency and critical institutions. So I'm going to continue to explain my view in the following articles -- come, give up this love, and withdraw this bill.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0280par0030	They don't give up, they don't give up!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0279par0031	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0281par0033	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0282par0034	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'm doing it with an electronic device, and I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Yes, there's enough to decide, the motion is denied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice Minister of Humanity Services, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Laws and the Law on Human Rights Act on Human Rights; The Law on Human Rights Act of Human Rights; Agreement of Human Rights and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Law on Humanity; The Law on Humanity (Biment). "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the district commanders and police commanders and the planning of relevant commanders are given with the approval of local property managers." We offer and propose that the 57th article in the form be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Article 3 of the Law No. 57 - 2803 has been changed as follows. "EK MADDE 3- The permissions of the commanders of the province and the district police officers and police commanders are granted with the proper opinion of the local property managers, in accordance with the planning of the relevant commanders." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0283par0047	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0282par0048	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0284par0049	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0282par0050	Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0285par0052	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 57 of Law Bill 684. I salute your high council. Yes, at the beginning of the conversation, we will discuss an important law here, but unfortunately there is a Minister of the Forest in this law. I mean, now, I'm really telling you, look, I'm telling you, in six years, there's been no order left in the Ministry of Forestry, there's no order left. Let's hope this disorder and disorder doesn't reflect on this Parliamentary General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0286par0054	No, is that because you left?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0285par0055	Dear lawmakers, now, this is Article 50 and Article 66...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0287par0056	I mean, you've been so out of order that he hasn't been able to fix it in six years.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0285par0057	He can't fix it, he can't fix it, he can't fix it. I hope on June 7th, we'll come, we'll fix it, I'll make it clear. Now, I'm leaving the Minister of the Forest. We'll talk about it there next week. Now let's concentrate on the subject. Dear lawmakers, look, there have been talks with the MET before noon. Right now, there's a sense of power that destroys all the institutions of the state, and in 13 years, I'm very clear and clear. We'll talk about it on every platform. At the end of 13 years, you've come to this point for thirteen years, every time you've run with a literature of victimization, you've been taking an institution and destroying those institutions. Now you've brought a package called an internal security package. It's as if you've provided Turkey's internal security for thirteen years, you've just seen the shortcomings, and now, 13 years later, you're creating a public perception that if this law is not passed, Turkey's internal security will be compromised. Dear friends, the Republic of Turkey is a state with laws, laws and traditions. If you destroy the institutions of this state, you will destroy this state. Now, like the National Intelligence Agency, Hakan Fidan is the head of the MIT agency, which provides internal intelligence and foreign intelligence for the state of Turkey. Hakan Fidan resigned, like all public officials, who were candidates for the EC PARTY. It's not even true that the head of an important institution such as the MIT was even a member of a party, but Velev resigned, and then there was a disagreement between the President and the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said he resigned in my view. The President also said: "I am deeply offended. His resignation was not right. And then, two days ago, Hakan Fidan was reassigned to the Undersecretary of MIT. Now, dear lawmakers, this is a legislature making law. With these laws, with these laws, how is he re-appointed, let alone a person, explain it? When you look at the Election Law, the Election Law clearly states that it returns to its post as an application a month after the end of the elections. When you examine the 13th and 14th Articles of the Specialized MIT Law, the five-year requirement is required. Now, the interesting thing is -- and I'm very clear -- is what does the pool media say is the date of the appointment of Hakan Fidan., who was appointed deputy director of MIT in April 2010, including a pool media that you trust so much here? It shows 17/4/2010. However, according to Article 14 of this MIT Undersecretary of the MIT Law... now, our friends have identified -- here, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu -- in Wikipedia, look. There's a change here on March 10th, and do you know what the start date for 2010 is? Translating to 2009. Now, I'm asking you: a person in an important position like the Undersecretary of MIT... someone has to explain it. This is fraud in the document -- look, I'm being very clear, if that's true -- that's fraud. If an Undersecretary of MIT is doing this, the Undersecretary of MIT will be questioned. This House needs to find out. I address the ruling party's group: If it's like this, if it's like these documents, it's fraud in the document. June 7th elections are not safe where such an Undersecretary of MIT is located, but will be obscured in the June 7th elections. As long as this Undersecretary of the MIT is on duty, I declare from the High Council that the June 7th elections...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0288par0063	So you've already come up with an excuse.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0289par0064	Suspicious choice!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0285par0065	...but we're going to get ahead of this chamber. Whether you appoint the Undersecretary of MIT, whether you change the law, whether you operate on perception, whether you go to the police state, remember that this nation will teach you on June 7th. No power has ever stood in history with the empire of fear. You will not be able to stay in power with the empire of fear, going behind the law, ignoring the law, cheating on the document; see this. And then you will see that these laws will be applied to you, and then you will say, "What did we do?" Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0068	Thank you. III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0291par0071	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0072	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Belen, Mr. İncakir, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Irbeç, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Adan, Mr. Şurşek, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Oral, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Erdemir. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Alterment in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Alterment in the Law and Law of Population Services; Çanakkale MP Ismail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendment in the Code; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP 2-659; İstanbul Vice Minister for Human Rights and 2-4-4-4-4th Amendments on the Law on the Law, 216th Amendments of the Law on the Law, 216th Amendment, 2th Amendment, 2th/4th Amendment of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Law, 2th Amendment, 2-4/4th Amendment of the Constitution, 2th Amendment of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th/4th Amendment of the Constitution of the Constitution, and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th/1 of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th/1 of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2th and the Constitution, 2 "EK MADDE 3 - Permissions of the district and district police commanders and police commanders and the planning of relevant commanders are given with the approval of local property managers." After the 57th article in its shape, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Öz Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0292par0093	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0094	He's out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koheeli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Vice of Humanity Services; Minister of Laws of Human Rights and Amendments of Humanity; Minister of Humanity (Seconciltration of Laws) Assignation (Seconds) and Laws of Peace (Seconds of Laws). After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Gaziantep Bigeli...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0293par0100	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0101	He's out. In Article 58, there are three motions, one of which is contrary to the Constitution, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Local Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act on Humanity Laws Acts and Amendments in the Law; İstanbul MP Ls Knakkale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Proposal Proposal on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Proposal's Proposal for Al-Keşdeşdeşdeşdeşdeşimation on the Law; İstanbul Commission on the Laws Office of Humanity Act on Publication of Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Laws Office on Humanment of Laws and Agreement of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and Agreement of Law; İstanbul Law on Humanity and Agreement of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and Agreement of Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanity and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on the Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment of Human Law on Humanment of Humanment and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanment and Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul's Law on Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Law on Human Law on Laws Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul (Bi. "EK MADDE 6 - The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the general commander or governors, according to his interest, as long as it is necessary to specify their limits in writing."We offer and offer to replace the 58th article in the form of the Psalm 58 in the form of the Bible. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu "The following article is added to Law 58-2803. "EK MADDE 6-The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the General Commander of the gendarmes, if necessary, to determine their borders in writing." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "The following article is added to Law 2803. "EK MADDE 6-The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the General Commander or governors, according to his interest, as long as it is necessary to specify their borders in writing." 58 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer Mehmet Ali Sesame Aytun Çıray The current motion is a amendment to the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the bill of law shall be issued because of the violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the single party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and beyond the state of police -- the actual "war state" of law and law. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzel Demir Çelik Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0294par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0135	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0295par0136	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0290par0137	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0296par0139	Mr. President, thank you. Look, fellas, 25,000 sergeants, 18,000 petty officers, 4,500 officers, and the number is thought to be 50,000 contractors. You made these arrangements. The 1990s have JITEM, and a title of the solution process is the establishment of the commission to face justice and truth. The 1990s, the discovery of their perpetrators, the deep state, the killings, the burning of villages, the killings... If you believe you're doing something right, you're going to get out of this chair -- the European Court of Human Rights is taking place in decisions, in the Supreme Court, everywhere -- that's wrong, and we're against this kind of structure as the AK PARTI government. You're clearly saying, "You're facing the facts in the process of resolution, just as in South Africa, as in the UK, as in Spain. Let's move on to another point. These 1990s will come before you in 2015. You didn't think of that when you made these arrangements. One more thing, and I want an answer from the government and the main opposition. Today, Mr. Baykal made a statement, saying: "It is true that in February 2003, we had a meal in Bosphorus at the request of the current President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He said, "We ate a lily." They're beautiful, you know, in the throat. But in this case, Mr. Prime Minister's ban has been imposed, and that interim article of the Prime Minister's decree for lifting the ban is not applied in this interim elections. Now, it is said in this negotiation that Mr. Erdogan's path to becoming Prime Minister will be opened, and Mr. Baykal will be opened the presidential road. [[From the AK PARTY lines, who says that?]] This is Mr. Baykal's own explanation. The government is here, the power is here, come out brother, tell me. The main opposition is here. Where did this game go down, where did the train go down? First of all, tell me what you're paying for this. You bring in the Constitutional regulations, but you have no interest in bringing in the 10% threshold. You're becoming a very democratic apostle! So, tell me, what have you agreed on? It's recent history. Open the pages of this recent date and I'll let the nation see. And I would like to invite you: is there another meeting in the ruling and main opposition, 2015 elections? I want to say that, too. I believe you can answer that. And I say that's enough.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0297par0147	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0298par0148	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Count it, fellas.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0299par0151	Mr. President, there's no obvious.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0298par0153	I'm voting electronically. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0300par0157	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Hasip Kaplan made an assessment in his own way, including the name of our former President, Mr. Deniz Baykal. That's why I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0298par0158	Right, you're right. He even asked for answers. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0300par0162	Mr. President, in late February 2003, and Mr. Deniz Baykal -- then President of the Republican People's Party -- and then President of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- in the course of a meal that was eaten in the Bosphorus of İstanbul, what negotiations were made there, and what negotiations were made there? In exchange for the opening of the Prime Minister's path to Erdogan, was Mr. Deniz Baykal promised the presidency? He made an assessment to create a question mark, such as "how were these negotiations made? " Mr. Baykal made a statement today, making it very clear that at the end of February 2003, we sat down with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, discussing the thesis dated March 1st. Other than that, we didn't talk about anything. So let Mr. Baykal explain. You say Mr. Kaplan has already made his statement. If it is about the opening of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's path to parliament, it will be well remembered by the friends who were in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the time of the 22nd Term Parliament, the Republican People's Party voted to lift Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's ban on democracy. It's the necessity of democracy. If a party received 34 per cent of the vote, if its leader is out of Parliament because of political ban, no, that means not believing in democracy, refusing democracy. Is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan a man who believes in democracy, the institutions of democracy? No, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a person who is increasingly trying to establish an authoritarian government. Unfortunately, that was his political course. But the Republican People's Party did it right then. I think it's the duty of democracy and Parliament to lift the ban on that outlawed person if the political party, which he is now a member of, who is the leader, has come to Parliament with a huge vote. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0301par0167	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0302par0168	Mr. President, I didn't make this up myself, so here's the story. I mean, there's an online statement in the news service. It's just that we've eaten a lot of lilies. It doesn't say that, Mr. Baykal, there are other things.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0300par0169	We talked about March 1st, he says.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0302par0170	It's not just March 1st, because on March 9th, the midterms were held in the Siirt, March 9th, and a date before March 9th, a temporary amendment was made at this time. So right now, the party says don't shut down. The AK PARTY people are bringing the arrangements. We say lower the dam; bring it in, take it out together, let the country see democracy; that's what we say; friends always oppose. I mean, do we have to eat lufers in Bosphorus, what do we do? And if they tell us this method, except for Parliament, how it's solved with lüfer in Bosphorus, let us understand. So power and the main opposition have to inform the public correctly. That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0303par0171	I get it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0302par0172	I mean, Mr. President, it's, like, three pages, it's a long explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0304par0173	I think you should read it on the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0302par0174	No, friends already have Internet.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0305par0175	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0306par0176	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0305par0177	Sir, over criticism of our former President trying to establish an authoritarian government and not being linked to democracy...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0306par0178	So you're saying Mr. Hamzacebi was picking on you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0305par0179	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0306par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0307par0181	Sir, is it taunting to speak the truth?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0306par0182	Now, here, I've identified who it's from, where it's from.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0308par0184	Mr. President, dear friends, of course, it would not be ethical or democratic for the president of a ruling political party to be cut off from politics. We also respect CHP's support at that time. In democracies, that kind of relationship and support happens all the time, and it's done by the same courtesy. In fact, it is clear that no one will benefit from a political atmosphere that will leave out the leader of a political movement that has come to power, because if you are the opposition, if you want to be the power, it's not in your interest to put a ruling political delegation in a position that's in a position that's in place for a sub-handling. So we view the support here as an attitude that suits understanding and democracy. However, this issue of authoritarianism is being sung like a song chorus. Look, the rules of democracy are clear. In democracies, you bring executives by choice, that's the first principle. Secondly, you can recall it by choice. The third is the existence of fundamental rights and freedoms. The fourth is the clarity of opposition's ways of power. There are four such principles in Turkey. Did the opposition find the possibility of power and say we don't go? The opposition tried to become a majority, so he presented himself as one, and the AK PARTY was forced to sit down? Turkey is having discussions about basic rights and freedoms. That's right, let's do it, but it's clear that Turkey is democratizing. The basic rules of democracy live in Turkey. We see them as political polemics. My respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0309par0189	Thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The following article is added to Law 2803. "EK MADDE 6-The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the General Commander or governors, according to his interest, as long as it is necessary to specify their borders in writing." 58 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0310par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0309par0202	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0311par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0309par0204	Mr. Aytun Çıray of İzmir, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0206	Mr. President, dear friends, before I go into my original conversation, I'd like to point out two things. One is the matter of the 10% dam that Mr. Hasip Kaplan just said. I'm calling on the 10% threshold -- which, I think, is essential -- and the first precondition for discussion of the rest of things -- to be considered the precondition for the solution process. If the 10% threshold doesn't fall, don't discuss anything with this government, nobody talks to it, because nothing is intimate, then, dear friends. That's the precondition. Second: the governor of Izmir issued a bulletin today. My governor just went to school here. I'm calling you to the government: remove this bastard governor immediately! That's bullshit! [[From the AK PARTY lines, the sounds, the noises.]] Dear friends, Erdogan has taken action to establish an otarchic presidential system after taking an oath he doesn't believe in. He was elected President in an unfair election with no freedom of public information; the use of government planes, cars, security bureaucracy and money. I keep telling you, the choices without freedom of information are unfair, even if they're legal, are politically shadowed. Here is the man who lives in the palace today, with such an election. Remember, please, to the Constitution... In the presence of the Great Turkish Nation and in the presence of history, I swear on my honor and honour that I would work with all my strength to carry out my duty as a neutral one. Erdoğan, who swore on his oath, had not only attended the AKP congress the day before his oath, but had joined opposition parties. The day before the oath of a person who swore to uphold the rule of law...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0313par0211	Yeah, talk about the motion!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0212	... in an environment where he has openly declared that he will appoint a Prime Minister under the condition that he violates the highest law, the Constitution, to cover up corruption cases, and now I see once again that we did very well not to attend his vows. As a matter of fact, he confirmed it himself a few days ago, and he made it clear that I would not be an impartial president. Now, he's demanding an MP to a political party. Dear friends, Erdogan may not like the Constitution, which is in effect like many others, but he may want to change it, but as long as it is in effect, he must obey it as we all do. Otherwise, there'll be a state crisis, anarchy. Once upon a time, there was nothing wrong with drilling into the Constitution once. This tyrannical mentality, which made those who called it the Constitution read mercy, cannot be allowed if the Constitution wants to fill it with holes. However, it is not only the duty of opposition parties and parliament to fabricate those who disobey the Constitution and the law, but other institutions of the forces, particularly the government and Mr. Davutoglu, must act. Because after the presidential election, the Constitution has not only been violated by Erdogan, but has been abused, friends.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0313par0214	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0215	Gentlemen, let's not forget that democracy is a regime of institutions and rules. However, while Erdogan clearly suspended the Constitution, constitutional institutions outside the opposition party remain paralyzed.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0314par0216	Don't get that chair dirty! You have no right to contaminate that bench!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0217	No one in this country has the freedom to commit a crime.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0315par0218	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0219	The Supreme Court and the Supreme Court must teach Erdogan a lesson in law, which sees the Constitution as a rule of law that he can break whenever he wants instead of a social contract.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0316par0221	You're gonna teach law?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0222	Otherwise, the judiciary and the government will be guilty of negligence and abuse.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0317par0224	You miss it, you miss it, but it's one party.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0318par0225	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0312par0226	A person who attempts to make an attempt on the Constitution and its laws, a source of legitimacy of his own, will be asked not to have an accomplice.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0319par0228	Tell me about the one-party chef period, one-party. Look at your history, look at your history, look at your mirror. You're a man of fascist history! The footsteps of fascism are in your history!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0320par0229	Get out of here! You'll all be struck and struck by strong will, and I'll see you on June 7th.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0321par0230	Mr. President, Article 67 of the Civil Code demands a clean speech. Those who take the stand also have a duty to speak in such a language as they are entitled to become MPs. The gentleman didn't use a clean language, he used slang. We condemn him.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0322par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0323par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0324par0234	People will answer in a clean language in June.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0325par0235	One second, one at a time. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0326par0237	Mr. Orator, by mentioning my name...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0325par0238	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0326par0241	I'd like to remind Mr. Hati that 10 percent of the election dams are a condition of the solution process. I'm rereading the 10 articles explained in Dolmabahçe, and how many of them give a clearer idea of the 10% threshold: 1) The definition of democratic politics and its content, see, the definition and content of democratic politics. 2) Identifying the national and local dimensions of the democratic solution. It's about democracy again. 3) The legal and democratic guarantees of free citizenship. They all cover not only the dam, but the Political Party Act, election laws, all antidemocratic laws, all of them together. Most importantly, in the process of resolving... Which doesn't seem to make sense to the AK PARTY why we're actively resisting the security package. In the process of resolving the democratic-security relationship to protect public order and freedoms. In order to protect the freedoms, of course, we're warning you here that Kantar is running from security, from the police state. We talked a lot about the 10% dam here, guys. The election dam means respect for the will of the nation, not to steal the votes of the nation, not to steal the citizens' votes, is to choose the congressman freely, which is to reflect the will of the nation. If there is a party leader who truly believes in democracy, if he has a government, a team, the Kenan Universe will not hide behind the 10 percent threshold of the coupgers. You've been sentenced to political parties, the Constitutional Commission is being discussed, and if you've got the heart, we invite you, let's raise the dam, let's all enter this election freely! Do you have the heart, do you? Mr. Ashy with the green tie, do you have the heart?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0327par0252	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0328par0253	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has accused me of using a dirty language. I want to say that I didn't use this.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0329par0254	Sir, he used the word "zobidi" Argo... Argo...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0328par0256	Dear friends, the term "zobidi" means that you act inappropriately and timelessly according to the Turkish Language Foundation. That's all it means. On the other hand...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0330par0258	I mean, what are you? Then you're a jerk!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0331par0259	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0328par0260	Now, just now...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0332par0262	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0328par0263	Don't worry about him. We know why you're confused, why you're upset. This 10% thing, the 10% thing, it's hanging around your neck like a drum of democracy, it's a sign of your attitude towards democracy.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0333par0265	Look at your fascist past!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0328par0266	The 10 percent threshold is the turnnusol paper, the turnnusol paper for everyone; the 10% dam is the turnnusol paper for you, and the 10% threshold is the turnnusol paper for the People's Democratic Party. Hopefully, the Turkish nation will look at this turnusol paper and decide who's a Democrat, who's a decent, gentleman, especially who's watching the Justice and Development Party's group meetings. My respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0334par0268	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0335par0269	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0336par0270	Mr. President, isn't he going to correct the dirty word that comes out of his mouth?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0337par0271	Come on, sit down, don't be a jerk! Don't be a bellhop, get back in your seat!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0338par0275	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0339par0276	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0338par0277	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0339par0279	No, no, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0338par0280	I'm voting electronically. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0340par0283	We're returning the bastard to the punk.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0341par0284	Mr. President said to the governor, "I'm sorry." Aren't you going to say anything? Don't you have an answer for an MP who calls the governor of Izmir..zibidi?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0342par0285	You won't have any warning?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0343par0286	Get up and give it to me, Ahmet Efendi. Get up and give it to me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0344par0287	You give it to me, Ahmet New, you answer me.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0343par0288	That's less than enough.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0345par0289	I've done a lot of things, but the rest is point, point, exclamation point. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal "The following article is added to Law 2803. "EK MADDE 6-The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the General Commander or governors, according to his interest, as long as it is necessary to specify their borders in writing." 58 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends The following article has been added to Law 58-2803. The Minister of Interior may hand over part of his authority to the General Commander of the gendarmes, if necessary, in writing. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0346par0302	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0345par0303	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0347par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0345par0305	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0348par0306	Mr. Safik.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0345par0307	Hatay MP Mr. Chiefk Ugly, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0349par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, we're talking about a general command established in Tanzimat, founded in the period of Tanzimat, founded as the Umumi Zaptiye Organization, which won a legal process with Asakir-i Zaptiye Nizammamı during the Islamic period of Islam, which was formed as the last stage of an officer raised here in Thessaloniki. It has shown great usefulness in the Liberation War, it has suppressed the rebellion of some separatist forces, it has been very helpful in this, and it has made a great contribution not only in Turkey, but in Spain, in Italy, in France. What are we doing now? Here, the Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the governors. We bring a law such as the law, which we object to. I mean, what happens now is, when you hand it over to the governor, do we even know? The governor will be able to appoint the governor, the county, the commanders of the district. The soldier will be condemned to political will, forced by political will to rise, so he won't become civil -- there's a pun here -- will be political. Let's find out, for God's sake! So one day an understanding of military politicalisation under the name civilization will lead Turkey to disaster, and none of us will be able to stop it. We're in the middle of a war; you see the Middle East, you see Syria. Now, unfortunately, what will Turkey do when we're out there fighting a war -- God forbid -- when there's a very good chance he'll get into trouble at any moment? Will the police have enough power to restore peace inside? Now you're going to say: "Are we removing the gendarmes?" No, but you're politicizing them, you're corrupting their structure, and the local politicians -- it's not just for you -- and hopefully, we'll come to you -- the gendarmes will be a fully qualified political organization. Who's gonna be happy about that? The PKK, which is trying to divide this country, is going to be happy to tear this country apart; the PKK will be pleased.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0350par0315	The PKK already wants it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0349par0316	Why would he be pleased? Because he bought and surrendered the power party's ambition to win an election -- according to us -- with a weapon of a solution process. As a result, the PKK will also be able to find more comfortable opportunities in the southeast. That's not gonna happen, guys, it's a huge mistake, and we invite you to turn around and accept our motion. Now, which Turkey is this? So, sir, it can be said that, in Spain, it's like this, in Europe, it's dependent on civil will. We're in a country where the president of the National Intelligence Agency can resign, he can apply from a political party to a candidate, he can even enter his pre-election -- let's just say it's normal, not -- then he's withdrawn from the nomination of the President of the National Intelligence Agency because he has rejected or rejected it. There's no democracy in a country like this, no matter what the party does. We're talking about a country like this, we're talking about our problems, and it's going to cause a lot of problems. We're drafting a law on increasing police jurisdiction as a package, but we're still not moving a finger on police rights. Bring this into this law, and let us bless it together in a fresh heart. I mean, the police are waiting outside, waiting for the country, waiting for the country, waiting for the country, waiting for the retirement, waiting for the retirement. Please, at least do this kind of favor during this legislature, and we'll help you, and the rights of the police will be restored. You're putting the police in trouble by giving them authority, so at least make sure they're comfortable financially. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0351par0321	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0352par0324	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0351par0325	The request for roll call is available. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Küyük, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Elector, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Ayyıdım, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Demirçlı, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Özkes... I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions for the new clause, and I'm reading the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; İstanbul Commissioners's Law on Human Rights and Law Orders of Human Rights on Laws of Laws and Amendments on Laws of Humanity Services; İstanbul MP İsışdemir Kashdemirimimimdemir's Propos for Amendment; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Information Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kobalı İs Office on the Law; İstanbul Court of Laws Office of Law; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanment on Humanment on Laws and the Laws Office on Humanment; İstanbul Laws Office of Law on Laws Office; İstanbul Law shall be under the Law. "EK MADDE 6-The Minister of Interior may hand over some of his powers to the General Commander or governors, according to his interest, as long as it is necessary to specify their borders in writing." After Article 58 in the shape of Article 58, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0353par0339	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0351par0340	He's out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act; Minister of Laws for Change in Laws and Laws on Humanity Services; İstanbul MP İs Khan Kneşdemirdemir's Proposal on Information; İstanbul MP İsal Kaşdemir's Proposal Proposal for Al-Seşaşim; İstanbul's Proposal for Al-Biation Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkululululululululululu and Kotı; İstanbul's Office on the Law on the Law; İstanbul Commission on the Law; İstanbul Council of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Human Laws Office of Law; İstanbul Law and the Law on Humanment and the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on HumanLaw ; İstanbul Law on HumanLaw ; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of HumanLaw ;İstanbul ; İstanbul( S Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices OfficesOffices) ;İstanbul 's Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Office on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Human Law onInformation ;İstanbul ; İstanbul( Bs Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Office on Human Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices Offices on Public Office ofHuman ;İstanbul) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0354par0343	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0351par0344	He's out. There are three motions in Article 59, one of which is an anti-constitutional motion, which I shall have read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Public Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act; Minister of Laws of Humanity, Çanakkale MP İsım Kashdemirimimimimimimimimimimim; Adım's Propos for changes in the Code of Identity Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilılı; İstanbul Security Commissioner's Order for Change in the Law on the Law; İstanbul Commission on the Law; İstanbul Commission on Humanment; İstanbul Commission on Humanment and the Constitution on Security of Security of Security of the Law; İstanbul Council; İstanbul Commission on the Constitution; İstanbul Commission on the Constitution; İstanbul Commission on the Constitution and the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of Security of Security of Security and the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution; The Security of Security of Security of Security of Security and the Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security and the Constitution on the Security of Security of Security and the Security of the Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of Security of Security of the Security of Security of Security of Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security and the Security of the Constitution; The Security of the Constitution of the Security of the Security of the Constitution of the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution "Except for the admirals, the Secretary of the Interior appoints the president of the Coast Guard Command and the chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and the commanders of the region. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. Temporal Article 6 provisions are reserved." We propose and propose that the 59th article in the form be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Işım Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz "The third joke of the 8th Article of Coast Guard Command No. 2692, dated 59 - 9/7/1982, has been changed as follows. "Excluding the admirals, the appointment of chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and district commanders at the headquarters of the Coast Guard Command is made by the Minister of the Interior with the offer of the Coast Guard Commander. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. Temporal Article 6 provisions are sealed."Object Mr. Akbulut, I'm opening the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0355par0361	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd just like to say that I don't think it's right for a member of the Republican People's Party to use the expression for the governor of İzmir to use it. I demand that this ugly statement be corrected for a public official who is not here and who has no way of defending himself. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0356par0368	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law of Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments; İstanbul Deputy Commissioner for Information Act on the Security Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Office on the Law on Humanity of Security; İstanbul Law on Humanity and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitutions of the Constitution on the Law; İstanbul Council of Peace and the Constitution on Human Rights; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution on the Constitution of Peace of Security of Security of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution on the Constitution of Security of Security of Security of Peace and the Constitution of Security of Peace and the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Peace and the Constitution on the Constitution on Human. "Except for the admirals, the Secretary of the Interior appoints the president of the Coast Guard Command and the chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and the commanders of the region. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. The temporary Article 6 provisions are sealed." 59 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. MADDE 59- "9/7/1982" and the third joke of the 8th Article of Coast Guard Command Law 2692 has been changed in the same way on the right. "Except for the admirals, the appointment of chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and district commanders to be appointed by the Coast Guard Commander. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors, and the distribution of privates and privates are made by the Coast Guard Commander. Temporal Article 6 provisions are kept. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ali Haydar Öner Ahmet Toptaş Gürkut Acar Mehmet Ali Sesam Now I'm going to read the Constitutional Anti-Response motion, and I'm going to process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the bill of law shall be taken out of the bill because of violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal laws norms and fundamental human rights and the sole party -- one man -- beyond the dictatorship regime and the police state -- due to the practice of the actual "warning state" in accordance with the Constitution of the 59th Amendment. Pervin Buldan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Tünzel Demir Çelik Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0357par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0356par0391	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0358par0392	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0356par0393	Mr. Furman, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0359par0394	Mr. President, my dear friends, it is clear that this claim against the Constitution is in its proper place. We're going to take a vote from this point of view, but obviously, as usual, the AKP Group will vote against it. However, I wonder if the Justice and Development Party Group, especially in this part of the law, is aware of the fact that its haste to take over the Gendarme organization, to tie it to the Ministry of Interior, is in fact a political position. Because when you take over the police force as it is, you're taking over JITEM. As a team, JITEM is now the property of the Justice and Development Party. It is this organization, which has done so far, with its acts of murder, which has covered all its land with blood from one end of Kurdistan to the other, who has slaughtered its bravest children alive, who have thrown them into the wells of acid, and have buried them in the ground. The Bolu Gendarme Commando Brigade is in the minds of everyone who has been brutally active in their village-to-town activities of humanizing Kurdistan. It's not just my claim. As part of the Ergenekon prosecution, the gendarme Colonel Arif Doğan, not only claimed that he founded the JITEM, but also delivered a regiment of documents, and it is clear how the Hezbollah killers were protected and protected by the gendarmes, how they were used against revolutionaries, patriots, human rights advocates. This bloody organization has committed a massacre not only against civilians, but also against its own commanders. The murderers of Esref Bitlis, Bahtiyar Aydın, Ridvan Özden, are also in this organization. Now, I'm asking you, what are you going to do with these killers in this agency you've taken over? Where do you intend to put this killer's savings, this collection? With this, will you offer citizens the same JITEM activities under civilian command now that the JITEM is in your possession? I'm really curious about your attitude on this. It is clear from the statements of Mehmet Elkatmis, your former Commission for Review of Human Rights, which, at no time, the Justice and Development Party has been unable to face in its twelve-year power. Teoman Koman, you couldn't bring him in and interrogate him in Parliament, Teoman Koman refused to give you a statement. You couldn't question Mehmet Agar, Mehmet Ağar said to you, "Get out of here!" And he's gone, and in the end, this JITEM agency is stuck with all their bloody killings. Now, I'm really curious about what you're going to do with this agency. I want to see the People's Republican Party's Party of National Action not say anything about it, and see that the Republican People's Party doesn't say anything about it, and in fact, I want them to show their attitude about it, and I'm done talking. I want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0360par0398	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0361par0399	Thank you. I'll call the number of decisions I have to make, and then I'll give you my word. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0362par0402	No, no, President, no.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0361par0403	I'm doing electronics. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0363par0406	Mr. President, they're coming later. You have to decide based on what it looks like in the first place.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0364par0407	Mr. President, they don't know what they're saying. They don't know what they're saying. They didn't read the bill anyway. By God, they'll be ruined for the motion. They'll be on their way.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0363par0408	No, Mr. President, they come here later. First order of business, it looks like you're making the decision.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0409	Okay, well, you're right when you say that, but in an apocalypse, it's kind of hurrah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0363par0410	We know they're out there, so don't let them go. It's what it looks like here at the time.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0411	Now, this is what you do with the Civil Code, with this notebook, according to the Civil Code, the President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0363par0412	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0413	Oh, Reverend, just a minute. You said it, I listened to it, and I'll defend myself.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0363par0414	They're watching the game, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0415	Okay, they can watch the game. Look, I'm being honest. Now, you're shaking this, okay, but according to the Civil Code, if these two gentlemen or ladies are sitting, I have to count the ladies and believe them myself. The Civil Code commands it. But I'm, again, counting on myself for today's importance and importance, okay.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0366par0416	Yeah, it's two minutes, isn't it? You're winning.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0417	No, more are being earned, more than two minutes. From a opposition point of view, the system goes in two minutes, two minutes, two minutes. And you're disturbing the lawmakers, making them run, so that's good.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0367par0418	It won't be a bother, sir. The reason they're here is because they're alive. Friends are either going to watch the game or they're going to be lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0419	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0368par0420	They can do both, my dear, our friends are resourceful.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0422	Yes, there's enough to decide, the motion is denied. Yes, now...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0369par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0425	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0369par0426	The speaker who was just before HDP (HDP) said that the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0365par0427	Yes, please.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0369par0430	Thank you. Mr. President, we can't possibly agree that the National Movement Party should be charged in any way with JITEM. It's not, JITEM, we're against anyone who does anything illegal, anyone who does anything wrong to the people. We would never agree to commit illegal acts, which is why we are against this law. Because one of the main reasons why we're going against this law that will make a police state is that we can't accept a law within a structure that can take people into custody and extend it without question, without question, by disregarding the law, by violating a number of extraordinary powers, by violating a number of officials or even their own authority. Tomorrow, believe me, when you fall from power, these same laws are the laws that will take you into custody and hurt you in the first place, no doubt about it. And I wish we'd been more careful with them. You'd say, "But it won't do any good." On the other hand, I would like to say that the police force is part of our armed forces. Whoever puts the Armed Forces into politics has no value, and the other Armed Forces will be the same if they are involved in interfering with politics. In both democratic environments and administrations, don't let the Armed Forces get involved in politics. Well, at least don't. The same thing has been tried once before, and the damage has been done. If you have to do something by the governors, the law will be passed. So everyone needs to know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0370par0435	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0371par0436	Mr. President, Mr. Ali Serindağ will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0372par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. We, the Republican People's Party, don't say yes to any of the people's illegal or illegal acts that torment people, but we don't condemn anyone if we don't have any documents. Now, why are we against this law? So, we object to preventing this kind of pressure, preventing this kind of pressure from coming out. Why else would we object? You're saying we're going to maintain public order. We say if this law comes out, you'll break the public order. You lay the groundwork for some illegal activity, outside practices. That's why we object. On the one hand, you say that, and on the other hand, you're bringing in arrangements to lay the groundwork for this kind of behavior, and here's your contradiction. You're talking about freedom, you're bringing constraints of freedom. Governor, I've just read that at the top of the bloc, he talks about the Court of Human Rights, freedoms, the Constitution, but you read the text, there are regulations that have constraints on freedoms. You guys have to give up these situations, so you have to have your word and your essence. Whatever you're saying, you have to say it clearly. That's how you inform the community. What you're doing doesn't match what you're saying, and neither does this. We -- I repeat -- we don't take kindly to public oppression, intimidation, intimidation. We say that all obstacles to democracy must be removed, democracy must be made to work with all institutions and rules. Then there'll be peace, security, prosperity in the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0373par0444	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0374par0445	Mr. President, aside from the bullying just now, the speaker has again described a region in Turkey as "Kurdistan" although it is contrary to the Constitution. I demand that this be removed from the record, there is no such place.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0375par0446	There is no violation of the Constitution, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0376par0447	It's the name of a geography.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0374par0448	Geography isn't that kind of geography. It's never happened in history, and it's not in history.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0449	So there's no defined concept. So you used it...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0378par0450	Were the Kurdistan MPs sitting at this time 80 years ago? Look at the House transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0451	Now, there is no such description in our current Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0378par0452	In the Constitution of that time...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0453	So there's no geographical definition.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0378par0454	There was no debate on such a term, and there is no discussion on it today.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0458	Now I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Public Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulı and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act; Minister of Laws of Humanity, Çanakkale MP İsım Kashdemirimimimimimimimimimim for the Amendment; İstanbul MP's Propos for Al-Seşin Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulı and Koğal Kaplan's Order for Al-Seşimation of Humanment of Security (Seşimation of Peace), 259) and the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Peace and the Peace and the Constitution on the Constitution of Peace and the Security of the Security of Security of the Security of the Constitution of the Constitution; İstanbul Council of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Constitution of the Security of the Security of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Security of the Security of the Constitution and the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of Peace and the Security of the Security of the Security of the Security of the Constitution; İstanbul Council of the Constitution and the Security of the Constitution of the Constitution; İstanbul Council of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Council of the Constitution of the Constitution "Except for the admirals, the Secretary of the Interior appoints the president of the Coast Guard Command and the chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and the commanders of the region. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. The temporary Article 6 provisions are sealed." 59 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends "The third joke of the 8th Article of Coast Guard Command No. 2692, dated 59-9/7/1982, has been changed as follows. "Excluding the admirals, the appointment of chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and district commanders at the headquarters of the Coast Guard Command is made by the Minister of the Interior with the offer of the Coast Guard Commander. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. Temporal Article 6 provisions are reserved." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0379par0466	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0467	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0380par0468	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0377par0469	Mr. Faruk Bal. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0381par0472	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the views and motion of the National Movement Party on this matter concerning the Coast Guard Command. I salute the grand jury. In order to understand this clause and our motion, I would like to speak my thoughts to the High Council on two matters. What is one of these, what is the state, what is the government? The state, institution, organization, and its rules are an entity, and its quality is a constant force; and the government is temporary. The government is a democratic institution that has temporarily existed to run the state wheels of parties, for those who have received the authority of the electorate. Now, at this point, when we come to this separation, the Justice and Development Party is a temporary thing, and as a government, its authority is only temporary. Just as the CHP, which states that it has formed this state in the past, is temporary, if the Justice Party has passed, if the Right Path Party has passed, if the Homeland Party has passed, the AKP will pass, but the AKP wishes not to pass and wants to stay. It's called "dictatorship," and it's partying the state on its way to dictatorship. When we look at it, it makes the organs of the state its own organs. Here it is, in order to block the accumulation of power, which we call the balance and control tool of parliamentary democracy, the Coast Guard Command, which is under different authorities in order to prevent the accumulation of power within the internal security services, is attempting to contain the armed forces of the gendarmes and police. This is a very wrong and very dangerous road. Such a wrong and dangerous road will create chaos and chaos for Turkey, which is planned to become a party state in the coming process. Now, when we think like this, the government's body, the Coast Guard Command and the General Command of the Gendarmes, are two entities with two elements, two shapes. These are, in a sense, military regulations, as well as the Ministry of Internal Affairs for police services. If such a change is to be made, what do you think, what do you say, from the head of the General Staff, which naturally is the establishment of the state? That would be appropriate for the law-making technique. However, according to media reports, such an opinion has not been taken from the Chief of Staff, which has been leaked from the Alo Fatih lines. In that case, Turkey, despite the state body, is ruled by the party's will. So, we come across a fundamental law, like the Constitution, that has doubts that it's now in effect. Of course, the Constitution is the supreme law norm that everyone must abide by. When we say that everyone obeys, it includes the Veteran Assembly, which established this state with the Salvation War, which has to obey the Constitution, which includes the executive body and the courts. Among those involved are the President, but the Constitution is suspended in the construction of the party state of President AKP. In addition to violating the Constitution, it violates its oath. My dear friends, what is the oath? The oath of God is that you must promise that you will speak the truth and that you will do the right thing by keeping witness to God. Legally, the oath can't be proved otherwise, and if it is, I'm out, I'm out. I'm giving up all my rights. What is a moral oath? There's nothing beyond that, I've put everything out there, I've put my personality out there, I've put my personality out there. Here, Mr. President, on this stand, he has sworn by honor and honor in the presence of history that he will remain neutral, but has gathered the chiefs and asked the AKP for 400 deputies. That's what Turkey is like, and that's not a good sign. My dear friends, within that scope, everyone has to come to their senses. Among those who will come to your senses, the AKP's MPs say they are coming, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0382par0479	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0383par0482	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit06spe0382par0483	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Seşin, Mr. Shotman, Mr. Öner, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Earth, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Çandar, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Demirçalı, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Elector. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0382par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 684. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments; İstanbul MP's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP's Constitution on Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution on Humanity and the Constitutional Law; İstanbul's Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitutional Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity and the Constitutional Law on Humanity and the Constitution on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity and the Constitution on Humanity of Humanity and the Constitution on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; The Security of the Constitution of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Human Right; The Security of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity of Human Rights Act on Human Rights and the Constitution on Human Rights (B) "Except for the admirals, the Secretary of the Interior appoints the president of the Coast Guard Command and the chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and the commanders of the region. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. The temporary Article 6 provisions are sealed." 59 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. MADDE- 59 "9/7/1982" and the third joke of the 8th Article of Coast Guard Command Law 2692 has been changed in the same way on the right. "Except for the admirals, the appointment of chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and district commanders to be appointed by the Coast Guard Commander. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors, and the distribution of privates and privates are made by the Coast Guard Commander. Temporal Article 6 provisions are kept. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0384par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0382par0013	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0385par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0382par0015	Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0386par0017	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Of course, there's no room for discussion on whether it's a security package or a bill to form a party state. Certainly the AKP, on the other hand, has made changes to the Police Mission and the Law of Salahiye, on the other hand in the General Command Act of the Agency, and on the Law of the Coast Guard Command, which has now decided to rule the country, rather than a democratic regime, rather than a modern democracy, as a tribal state, as a clan. With all due respect, the congressman friends are a tool. I've actually spent twenty-eight years in the armed forces -- I started at the Shadow Shipyard -- working life. And I've been highly recommended in my collective contracts with the command postings. Civilization, yes. In the armed forces, democratization, yes. But no politics. Now, you're giving up politicalism, and by your arrangements, you're literally bringing down the Armed Forces. So the Coast Guard Command is a department of the Ministry of Interior, such as the General Command of the Gendarmes, but the task, the authority, for example, is a security unit, directly under the command of the Ministry of Interior during martial law, and directly under the command of the Navy Command in the event of war. So when you look at the assignment here, the relocation, the rights to equity, from 59 to 65, you see that this arrangement is not to eliminate a security issue... Besides, there's no security in Turkey at this time, there's no internal security issues. So, of course, Turkey suffers from terrorism, but what you've brought with logic is that we're only going to punish those who tie the bag or throw stones with the slingshot, which is that you're not interested in an internal security arrangement, not in dealing with internal security issues, but in institutionalizing the party state directly; do not respond violently to the citizens, the workers, the workers, those seeking democratic rights, and those seeking freedom. And you're going to make the motive, especially by putting the Coast Guard Command and the Gendarmes under the orders of the governors -- who can always be replaced -- to be fully appointed, relocated, self-esteem rights, or even based on reports of their rights -- to do promotion procedures, which is not the road, dear friends. I have to say, really, right now, Turkey doesn't have a domestic security problem, but it needs job security fiercely. Just yesterday, four workers died again. In 2014 alone, 1,886 workers were killed in work killings. Within two months, official records indicate that 206 workers were killed in the work killings again. The arrangement for business safety is waiting upstairs, perhaps you're going to make a butcher, but you're seriously playing with Turkey's institutions, order, management under the internal security bill in Turkey, as if there's an internal security problem. I want you to know that you're not going to be able to benefit from this at all. Indeed, now, these arrangements here, from this politicisation, especially from the Coast Guard Command and the General Command of the Gendarmes, or by inviting them to create a party state, are going to make themselves more and more sense in other institutions. And once again, look, you'll see, in the near future, when this boomerang hits you, you'll say: "Three opposition parties have warned us, but we came running out the door, we voted, we went out, we watched TV, we came back, we ran again. Our job, our job as MPs, was just to raise a hand, vote. You'll be sorry. I salute the working lawmakers. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0387par0027	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0388par0030	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0387par0031	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Seşurk, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Öner, Mr. Celtin, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Gütük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Çandar, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Elector, Mr. Demirçali, Mr. Yellow. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's been a new matter violation...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0389par0044	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have something to say. We've just asked for a number of decisions during the voting of our group's motion, and you've basically stated that you'll be able to determine it by electronic voting on the basis of the discrepancy of the clerk members in the General Assembly room, while there is not enough decision-making at the time. You did this according to the Civil Code 57, but the Civil Code 57 does not rule that the clerks should make a decision on the matter. When the merger opens, the president hesitates, he calls it a roll call. Clerk members have no function here. In the 10th section of the Civil Code, the duty of the clerks was determined in Article 141 concerning the census of the ballots. Therefore, it is not the duty of lawmakers here to demand, demand, or ask for a sufficient number of decisions... to make a census. You've made it look like you have a duty here to count the clerks. That's not true. I'll put it on the record.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0390par0051	There are two motions for the new clause, and I'm reading the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Population Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Changes in the Law and Laws of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on Amendments; İstanbul Commissioner's Proposal for Al-Bişin's Amendment in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Kosal's Orders Office on Human Rights and the Constitution; 2559th Act on the Constitutional Laws of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Peace and the Constitution on the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of Security of the Constitution of Security of Peace and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of Security of the Security of the Constitution of the Security of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of Security of the Constitution on Human. of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of Security of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution. "Except for the admirals, the Secretary of the Interior appoints the president of the Coast Guard Command and the chiefs of the Coast Guard Command and the commanders of the region. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. The appointment of other officers and petty officers, civil servants, specialists and contractors is made by the Coast Guard Commander, and the distribution of privates and privates. Temporal Article 6 provisions are reserved." After Article 59 in the shape of Article 59, we offer and propose that the following item be neglected and other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0391par0057	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0390par0058	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on Public Law and Laws and Law Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Services Act; Law Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; Proposal for the Amendments in the Statement Act, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Proposal; Proposal for Peace of the Law on Human Rights and Amendments of the Law on Humanity Services; Proposals for Humanity of Laws and Laws on Human Rights of Humanity; Aditions and Admissions of Laws under Articles and Laws and Laws of Humanity (Seconstitution).
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0392par0062	We're pulling back, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0390par0063	He backed off. There are three motions in Article 60, one of which is a violation of the Constitution, so I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Service Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Commissioner for Change in the Statement Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğal's Law on Human Rights Law; 2559 Agreement of Peace and the Law on the Laws of Human Rights; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights of Human Rights of Peace and Laws of Peace on Human Rights on Human Rights and Peace of Human Rights of Peace; İstanbul (Biography). "In the case of 9-Nine Security Command officer, petty officer, civilian staff, specialist, contractor, contracted officer and private, private, private and privates' temporary assignments are carried out according to the procedure and basis of Article 8 and the temporary transfer of duty and service in exchange for services or for health or other reasons." We offer and propose that it be replaced in the form of 60 below. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu "Article 9 of Article 60-2692 has been changed as follows. "MEDDE 9-Second Guard officer, petty officer, civilian staff, expert officer, contractor, contractor, private, private, private and privates have temporary deployment of duty and service positions on Article 8 and fundamentals by Coast Guard Command. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul Article 9 of Law 2692 has been changed as follows. "In the case of 9-Nine Security Command officer, petty officer, civilian staff, specialist, contractor, contracted officer and private, private, private and privates' temporary assignments are carried out according to the procedure and basis of Article 8 and the temporary transfer of duty and service in exchange for services or for health or other reasons." 60 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ali Sarıbaş Ahmet Toptaş Gaziantep Çanakkale Afyonkarahisar Ali Haydar Öner Tanju Özcan Celal Dinçer The current motion is a motion for violation of the Constitution. I'll read it and process it. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to President We propose and That the bill of law shall be removed from the bill due to the violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and basic human rights, and that one party -- one man -- and beyond the dictatorship regime and police state, the actual "war state" shall be adopted due to the violation of the Constitution and the Constitution of Article 60. Pervin Buldan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Demir Çelik Erol Dora Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0393par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0390par0097	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0394par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0390par0099	Mr. Erol Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0395par0100	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 60th Amendment of Bill 684. I salute the General Assembly. This domestic security package, discussed at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is aimed at the intense reaction of all opposition parties and human rights advocates in parliament in our country, while concerns are being voiced outside Turkey. The government still states that the arrangements are being prepared, considering practices in European countries. However, senior Human Rights Watch investigator Emma Sinclair has made it clear that the new powers considered to be handed over to the police could increase the risk of Turkey's citizens being subjected to state-sourced rights violations. The Human Rights Watch has learned from a diplomat from an important European Union member, Turkey's Interior Ministry last November asked the police about the powers vested in their country and tweezed some elements of their legislation in order to block criticism from the European Union. For example, the British police have the authority to take people into custody on their own initiative, and the German law defines it as a crime for demonstrators to cover their faces in order to conceal their identity, which is why Turkey's new bill includes the two elements. However, in each of the countries of the European Union, a conscious misdirection is intended to be compared by the tweezing of individual powers given to the police. The goal is to show the trees and hope that we can ignore the forest. The issue that government officials refrain from mentioning is that the state of police activities conducted to maintain public order in Turkey today is expressed in the opinion of countless cases in which peaceful protests have been violently and unlawfully distributed by police, non-violent activists have been detained and tried. Turkey has no explanation for the poor record of political authorities and courts, which have not been accountable for years, except for a few exceptions to established abuses, abuse and torture. As you know, the lawsuits against soldiers and police in particular have actually revealed a new judicial system in Turkey, which means that it has brought to light a new judiciary. For example, we can see in practice that there will be no legal trial in Hakkari, Şırnak, Mardin, Eskişehir, and many other cities by transferring crimes committed by police and soldiers to other cities. Again, Emma Sinclair reminds us that the European Court of Human Rights has found Turkey guilty in as many as 45 cases for violating the freedom to gather since 2006 and for leaving the perpetrators of torture and abuse unpunished. Given this true context, increasing the power to use firearms given to police in Turkey would mean the deaths of more citizens. Mr. President, valued lawmakers also point out that such deaths, due to the use of unfair force in the past, could be largely punishable. Furthermore, given the past observed practices in Turkey, it may also mean that the police will be given the authority to perform mass detentions without the approval of the judge, to be detained in custody and even to be detained in public, not to be interviewed or lost in custody, and to be ordinary. Given the insufferability that the government has shown to those who disagree with it in the past, it is clear and clear that these violations of human rights that we emphasize are taking place. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0396par0108	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0397par0109	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0396par0110	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal Article 9 of Law 2692 has been changed as follows. ▪MADDE 9 - The temporary assignments of the Coast Guard officer in the Coast Guard Command, petty officer, civilian staff, expert officer, contractor, contractor, private, private, private and privates are made according to the procedures and basics of Article 8 and on the basis of the amendment of service and services for health or other reasons." 60 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0398par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0396par0121	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0399par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0400par0123	Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0396par0124	Mr. Sesame, Smyrna MP, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0401par0126	Thank you. Mr. President, while we're discussing the internal security bill, I'd like to remind you one thing: why three parties opposed the bill that three parties opposed and why you need to draft such an internal security bill. You've been in power for thirteen years. You're upping your vote every time the election passes. You're equipped with power from the head of state to the undersecretary, starting with the janitor, but the reason you're coming to us today is that I can't prevent social events. The existing laws aren't enough. I need to change the law in order to take a more effective precaution. Youth is involved in many acts of terrorism, including drugs. At a point like this, Turkey exists, and I need to change that law. This is an expression of the bankruptcy of your 13-year-old power, in fact, of youth facing a drug bust. Look, I'll tell you a moment, in the military field where I went to visit a relative of mine six months ago, the commander told me: "Mr. Deputy, 30 percent of the children who come here are coming here as criminals and addicts." If that's the way our future looks in a country where youth is 20 years old, then you're at the point where we have to answer for it, and you're at the point where we're at the point of a 13-year-old government that has brought our future to a point of despairing, guilty and in which there's no guarantee for the future. What do you call this law? ▪ Give me more authority. If social events are increasing -- you are the key tool for everything -- with a police stick -- and police gas -- you need to make a serious self-criticism here. Dear friends, therefore this law is indeed the bankruptcy of all your claims, democratisation, integration with the European Union, raising democratic standards, unemployment in Turkey and all your policies in economic growth. The reason it came to this is because you're following the wrong foreign policy. You're implementing an economic policy that doesn't depend on production, doesn't share, doesn't give young people hope, doesn't find a job. You are definitely away from an education system that captures the modernity of quality and age in education, information, intelligence, good judgment, and today you are really trying to bring to this country a legal system that is increasingly going to one man's administration, which under your control of justice, law and judicial independence. And to do that, you're disassociating all independent institutions of the state, transforming its national qualities into an institution of your own. Your recent operation in the MIT is also a sign of this. That's what you want to do in the army, in the gendarmes. In Turkey, it is everyone's wish that the army be taken into its own position and become a democratic structure, but the infiltration of the military in Turkey is one of the greatest weaknesses of your time. The army of the Republic of Turkey is the strength and efficiency of Turkey's geography. It is our most important duty to make him strong in democratizing him, but it is one of your greatest weaknesses to turn the Chief of Staff into a terrorist, an army of conspiracies. You have no right to uphold this law without making a statement. This law is a law that is severely narrow to Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0133	Thank you, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0403par0134	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0135	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... will you count it, my friends? I'll do it electronically. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0404par0139	They'll be here in two minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0140	Actually, I mean, it seemed like there was, but just to torture you, I'll tell you the basics. It's good to run. Run a little, I like it.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0405par0141	Let's give it a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0406par0142	Mr. President, these are on the record. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0143	For the record, honey, I made a joke.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0406par0144	Actually, that's where you made the joke.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0145	No, by "you," I mean not your group, my dear, the lawmakers. Did you take it seriously?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0407par0147	We didn't take it seriously, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0148	No, if you're serious, I'll get serious right away.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0408par0150	Mr. President, go ahead with what's going on.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0151	I mean, I really...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0409par0152	Mr. President, don't you take what the president says seriously, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0153	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0409par0154	I mean, doesn't what the President says have to be taken seriously, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0155	No, no, now that I'm in the polls, I thought I'd make a joke of my own, what a mess! I got it all back at once. I'm gonna take a 20-minute break from the merger. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0410par0159	Mr. President, what is our sin? What is the sin of the majority?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0411par0160	Mr. President, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0161	I've actually been able to make a good statement like this, and I've had it on both sides, it's amazing! [[We're sorry about the AK PARTY.]] No, no, there's no need to ask, but I'm the guilty one. What do you do with people's business? Jesus Christ, do your thing, go ahead. I wanted to show you a smile like that...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0412par0166	Mr. President, if they don't understand humor, take a 15-minute break as punishment.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0167	Teacher, I already told you, if you tell me now, I'll be stubborn.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0412par0168	I think you should take 15 minutes off, if I were you, I would.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit07spe0402par0170	Yes, there's enough to decide, the motion is denied. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0402par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 684. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Service Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Commissioner for Change in the Statement Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğal's Law on Human Rights Law; 2559 Agreement of Peace and the Law on the Laws of Human Rights; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights of Human Rights of Peace and Laws of Peace on Human Rights on Human Rights and Peace of Human Rights of Peace; İstanbul (Biography). "Madde 9 - the temporary assignments of the Coast Guard officer, petty officer, civilian staff, expert officer, contractor, contractor and private, private and privates in exchange for services and services for health or other reasons are carried out according to the procedure and basis of Article 8 and the procedure of Article 8." We offer and propose that the 60th article, shaped like this, be replaced in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends "Article 9 of Article 60 - 2692 has been changed as follows. "MEDDE 9-Second Guard officer, petty officer, civilian staff, expert officer, contractor, contractor, private, private, private and privates have temporary deployment of duty and service positions on Article 8 and fundamentals by Coast Guard Command. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0413par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0402par0013	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0414par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0402par0015	Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0415par0017	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. I have made a promise on the basis of the 60th article of the Bill, which is called the internal security bill 684 rows. Dear MPs, since February 17th, we've been in constant contact with this law, 45 per cent of it has only been negotiated. At this rate, it should also take a month if this matter continues to be serious. If this law is not done and it is said that the good of the economy has been fulfilled, it will also be used by the Parliament for a new irregularity, if it is returned with some inappropriate practices and tried to be raided again. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the High Assembly is practically blocked. With such urgent problems in Turkey, it is extremely sad that Turkey has been blocked so that a law, which would make the Grand National Assembly of Turkey unable to discuss any serious issues and directly refer to power as a semblance of power, while Turkey is in such dire straits. We don't understand why such a law, which is understood to be reluctant of the opposition, is so persistent, that parliament is tried to be kept busy until the middle of the night, to be put to work. Our assessment of their midnight operation continues. When the Supreme Assembly was run in the middle of the night at the time of AKP power, the Turkish nation saw that there were laws against it, of course, against its country. In that sense, it's obvious as an application that confirms it. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, which is ruling by voting from the nation, are playing with the law to stay in power and disbanding the state of law. In that sense, indeed, it is prepared to march in front of the people who are going to be played with the police force, to play with the General Command of the Gendarmes, to play with the Coast Guard Command, to serve in what purpose, to look at it as negativity, dare to look at it as a dare: the power is prepared to walk in front of its own direction and with a security agency that will oppose the negatives and division of the rule of law. It is one of the most important indicators of what Turkey has become. Dear MPs, Turkey is in great trouble, and citizens in Turkey are in great trouble. Turkey is on fire, separatizing its head; when the economy signals collapse, when the nation is in such great distress, when there are no institutions or individuals left in Turkey to reassure the economy, it is necessary to think a little bit more deeply about what it means to block the Assembly in this way, when there are no measures in front of the Great National Assembly that will cure the desperateness of our citizens. Why does power want to waste time, why does power play time, why does the government stay away from solutions and spend time on everything, and our entire nation must pay attention to these issues? Dear lawmakers today, the economy that the government has put under pressure because of measures against the economy has not taken, has been tried to be run with the confidence of the Central Bank and the banking system alone, while the Central Bank has been reduced to the position of government and government's concerned with the economy, so it cannot be trusted. The power that governs a country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's important for our nation to think and see why you're such a disparaging fan, what you're hoping for from these destructions. In this regard, it is clear that this law needs one more month to pass. We ask for advice and advice on the reconsideration of power. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0416par0029	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Commissioner for Change in the Statement Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Amendment; 2559 Agreement of Peace and the Law on the Laws of Humanity Services; Ministerships of Peace and the Law shall be made by the Law on Human Rights of Human Rights Act; İstanbul Council of Human Rights and Agreement on Human Rights. "MEDDE 9-Second Guard officer, petty officer, civilian staff, expert officer, contractor, contracted officer and private, private and private staff's temporary transfer of service or service positions for health or other reasons is carried out according to procedure and basis of Article 8 and service." We offer and propose that the following item be neglected after Article 60 in its shape, and other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0417par0042	We're rolling, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0416par0043	He backed off. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act; Minister of Laws for Humanity and Laws on Humanity Services; Minister of Human Rights of Humanity; Ministership of Humanity and Laws of Human Rights on Humanity; İstanbul MP İs Kash Kasdemir's Proposal Law on Information Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğişimulını; İstanbul Security Committee on the Peace of Human Rights Act; İstanbul Commission on the Laws Act; İstanbul Commission on the Laws of Humanity; İstanbul Commission on Humanity and the Law on the Laws of Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law; İstanbul Laws Laws and the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul; The Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law and Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law and Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law on Humanment of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul (Bs) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0418par0046	We're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0416par0047	He's out. There are three motions in Article 61, one of which is an anti-constitutional motion. I'll have it read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposal for Amendments to the Law of Laws and Laws in accordance with Article 684, İstanbul MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal to the Amendment in the Law and Law of Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for the Law of Population Services; Law on Al-Khankale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for the Amendment to the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Caplan's Offer for Al-Biş; 2559 Vice President's Propos on the Law on the Law of Law on Laws and the Law on Humanity Services; Agreement of Human Rights and Laws on Human Rights of Human Rights; Agreement of Human Rights on the Law; Agreement of Human Rights and Agreement of Humanity of Humanity of Humanity (EC). "Every year, the governor's report from the governor's office on the property duties of the coast security district commanders is issued to assess their other duties other than military duties. Evaluation reports are taken into account in the promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports shall be organised by the Ministry of National Defence and by the regulations issued by the Ministry of Interior." We offer and propose that the 61st article in shape be replaced in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu "A third joke is added to Article 18 of the Law 61-2692. "Every year, the governor's report on property duties of the coast security district commanders is issued by the governor's office concerning property duties. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports shall be organised by the Ministry of National Defence and by the regulations issued by the Ministry of Interior." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The 18th Article of Law 2692 is added to the following joke. "At the end of each year, the governor's report on the duties of the Coastal Security District commanders is issued by the governor of their estate regarding their other duties, other than military duties. Evaluation reports are taken into account in the promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and structure of the evaluation reports are organised by the regulation of the Ministry of National Defence, which will be adopted by the Ministry of Interior," he told SETimes. It's 61 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer The current motion is the Constitutional Amendment motion, which I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Police Act 684 is currently in session, and has brought the amendment to certain Laws and Legislative Laws, the 1st Article of the Law Bill - TORBA -- we propose and propose that the Act 61 of the Bill be removed from the bill due to violation of the Constitution and the Constitution and its universal legal norms and fundamental human rights and the one party -- one man -- the dictatorship regime and beyond the police state -- the actual "war state" of the Constitution. Pervin Buldan Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Tünzel Demir Çelik Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0419par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0416par0080	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0420par0081	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0416par0082	Mr. Iron Steel here.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0421par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 61st Amendment of Bill 684. It seems that instead of taking advantage of the painful experiences of the 1990s, a mindset that intends to restore political and social trauma, instead of meeting the basic demands of the people in this parliament, which he has taken prisoner and mortgaged, decides that we will come with an understanding that is stripped of power and power as slaves. 4,000 villages were burned, destroyed; 1700 unsolved murders were committed; 3 million Kurds, poor Kurdish villagers were driven from their homes to be disciplined by hunger and misery. The lesson to be learned from that day was not to side with security policies on the security-freedom equation and balance. The lesson that needed to be learned was to stand for freedom, despite all the pain, political and social trauma, on the basis of freedom. On that day, many fires fell on the stove, and many lives were burned, and burned, and ruined, and there was a cry for humanity, and a cry for conscience. Ears that do not hear, eyes that do not see, and tongues that do not speak, continue to remain silent, helpless, and silent at a certain point in a period of practice and menstruation. What the AKP has determined in this package, as Mr. President and Prime Minister say, had there really been freedom, it would not have been enough for the AKP to try to secure its life through what is called public order, but for a civil authority restricted to the governor's commitment to the governor, first of all. If the National Security Council, which has been the institutional identity of political custody for 33 years, had been abolished, disbanded, had the General Staff been assigned to the Minister of National Defence instead of the National Security Council, of course, we could be talking about freedom. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0422par0091	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0423par0092	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit08spe0422par0093	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'll be there in ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0422par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 61 of the Law Bill 684, the decision of Mr. Demir Çelik and his friends had not been reached in the vote. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Ismail Kashdemir), İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal to Change Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Code of Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal's proposal for the Law on Human Rights of Humanity Services; Ministership of Law on Laws of Humanity; Ministerships of Humanity; Ministership of Human Rights and Laws of Laws on Humanity; Ministerships of Human Rights on Peace; Ministerships of Human Rights and Law; Ministership of Human Rights on Human Rights and Orders of Humanity; İstanbul Mustafa Sezginity; Ministership of Human Rights of Humanity of Human Rights on Peace; Ministership of Human Rights of Law; İstanbul (Biration) "The 18th Article of Law 2692 is added to the following joke. "At the end of each year, the governor's report on the duties of the Coastal Security District commanders is issued by the governor of their estate regarding their other duties, other than military duties. Evaluation reports are taken into account in the promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and structure of the evaluation reports are organised by the regulation of the Ministry of National Defence, which will be adopted by the Ministry of Interior," he told SETimes. It's 61 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0424par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0422par0016	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0425par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0422par0018	Mr. Serindağ, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0426par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as with the General Command of the Gendarme, the Coast Guard Command will be completely political. Now, look, we're looking at the Law on the Coast Guard Command, Article 2... (PART) If my dear friends listen, maybe they can change their opinion, their opinion: this Commandment -- the Coast Guard Command -- is part of the staff and organization of the Turkish Armed Forces, depending on the Ministry of Interior for duty and service in peace, so what is that? The Turkish Armed Forces were part of the staff and organization, this command. It's going on again: (sing) (sing) (sing) It's going on (sing) A) At the request of the Chief of Staff in a state of emergency, or all of them to the Command of the Navy or to the Command of the Navy, or to the Command of the Navy, or to the Command of the Navy, or to the Command of the Navy, at the request of the Chief of Staff in a state of emergency, he will go directly to the command of the Navy in the event of war, and now, in this manner, a command of the establishment law is being completely political, and you send a political command into battle, and you expect a success there. Gene, my dear friends, we're moving on, I believe, in the 10th article. We're looking at Article 10, what's it say? The Bay Security Command personnel do their duty under the Turkish Armed Forces 211 internal service Act in their own command and command. The Law says so. Now, you're not making any changes, you're not changing that, but you're leaving the appointment of personnel, dismissal, punishment to the Home Secretary. The law contradicts itself, there is no such arrangement. Then what should you do? You must redesign the Coast Guard Command completely, otherwise such an arrangement would open the way for politicalisation, both to the Turkish Armed Forces and the Coast Guard Command, even though they never wanted it. Come on, give it up. This is not in Turkey's best interest. The politicalisation of the Turkish Armed Forces is not in Turkey's interest. You are now giving the appointment of the Chief of Staff at the Coast Guard Command to the Home Secretary, giving the appointment of the district commanders to the Home Secretary. Can such armed forces be considered? Then take it all from the Armed Forces and arrange it accordingly. I mean, it can't be him and it can't be him, it can't be both, my dear friends. That's how you weaken institutions now, and that's how you weaken institutions, and then you make them debatable. Just like where? As in MIT, as in the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency. The MIT is an important institution for Turkey's stay, but you have made it controversial by your practices, by your arrangements. You're treating the Undersecretary of National Intelligence as an officer of the party. My dear friends, this is wrong. Look, there's a special procedure to appoint the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency -- I've told you before -- before he's appointed, he's being interviewed by the National Security Board. What else? His trial is a special procedure, followed by the Chief of Staff. But the legislator didn't make an arrangement with him because he didn't predict that the Undersecretary of MIT would go into politics, that he'd be reassigned to the Undersecretary of MIT after politics. In order for a petty officer to run, he has to leave the post and he's not coming back, but the Undersecretary of MIT is running, and he can come back. That can't be thought of. Why? Like I said, the lawmaker didn't predict anything like that, he didn't think it could happen, but you did the opposite. What else? Now, I'm drawing attention to another matter, dear friends. Six years ago, during his presence in Manisa, an investigation was conducted and so on in Ankara. Here, the blueprints have been found, no, the sketch of the home of Bulent Arinc, et cetera. The sketch was found to be owned by a computer repairman, and six years later it was decided to be untraceable, but you also searched the Expeditional Study Board for twenty-six days in the Cosmic Room. What happened, what was the result? Did you get anything? But those institutions were worn out, people were tortured, people were deprived of their futures, a liquidation movement was launched, and you were a tool for it, and now you're saying, "The parallel structure." Now, you're trying to build another structure. And I say this building will not bring you no, and I give you my regards, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0427par0029	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0428par0031	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0427par0032	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Public Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's proposal for Amendments in the Law of Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Caplan's Proposal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Amendments in the Law of Population Services; Minister of Humanity, Çanakkale İs Kashdemir İsimimimimimimimimimimim on the Law on Information Act; Adition of Identity Act on Humanity; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Mustafa Sezgin's Law Order for Change; İstanbul Minister Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law on Al-Biation; İstanbul's Office of Law; İstanbul's Office on the Law; İstanbul Commission on Humanity; İstanbul Law on the Law on the Law and the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Law and the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Law on the Constitution; İstanbul Council of Law on Law on Humanity and the Law on Law on Human Law on the Law on the Law on Humanity and the Law on the Constitution; The Law on the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Law; The Law on Humanment of Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Law on Humanment of Law; İstanbul Council of Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law; 25; İstanbul; İstanbul; The Law on Humanment of Human Rights and the Constitution; The Law on Law on Human Law on Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Law on Human Rights on Human Rights.; The Law on Human.; The Law on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights Office of Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights on Human Rights Office; "Every year, the governor's report from the governor's office on the property duties of the coast security district commanders is issued to assess their other duties other than military duties. Evaluation reports are taken into account in the promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports shall be organised by the Ministry of National Defence and by the regulations issued by the Ministry of Interior." We offer and propose that the 61st article in shape be replaced in the following way. "A third joke is added to Article 18 of the Law 61-2692. "Every year, the governor's report on property duties of the coast security district commanders is issued by the governor's office concerning property duties. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports shall be organised by the Ministry of National Defence and by the regulations issued by the Ministry of Interior." Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu (Osmaniye) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0429par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0427par0043	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0430par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0427par0045	Mr. Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamon. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0431par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 684th law enforcement and the Law on Laws and Laws, which are being held in the 684th Amendment to the 61st Amendment to the Act of the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. The power, whose goal and purpose is to bring the AKP dictatorship into our country, is to take whatever means necessary to carry out the legal arrangements needed to carry out its goal on the basis of its numerical majority, continuing by disregarding the law. That's what the bill we've been talking about today proved. This bill, served as an internal security package, has become a sack of laws from the Anti-Terror Law to the Mera Law, serving the AKP instead of our country, and has been prepared with understanding and awareness. The AKP, which acts with the mind of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and outside mosques, has decided the light of our country in 12 years, making laws against the dictator in order to establish its order. It is clear in our country, where our peace and security has been corrupted day after day, that our young girls have been brutally murdered, that walking in the streets has become dangerous, that PKK terrorists have acted at their pleasure, that this bill, brought to parliament under the guise of inner security, has made it legal to the secret agenda of the government. Instead of peace, peace and prosperity in our country, the AKP desires its own sovereignty, its allies' wealth, and the dictatorship of the founding leader, who they cannot fit into the sky. The lack of carelessness of law drafting by the AKP, the lack of law and lawmaking technique, the breach of Constitutional provisions, the lack of adequate discussion of commissions, the wrong writing, and the lack of knowledge of law made by its own lawmakers have been a clear indication of what they are serving. Making laws out of fires, and telling them in the squares as stories of democracy is nothing but hypocrisy. The Justice and Development Party is a mindset that has taken democratic rhetoric as a shield for itself, but does not understand a shred of democracy, does not want to understand it. What has been done in our country in 12 years is a clear indication of how much democracy has developed and improved. The internal security package is another proof of what I'm saying, which, despite the noise throughout the law, has been attempted to be removed with only instructions. As AKP, you are not thinking about the country or the Turkish nation; you are thinking about yourself and your family interests. What you want to do with this law is to try to destroy the state's memory by destroying all of the state's institutions, and then eliminate your own corruption and unlawfulness, which came to light on December 17th and 25th. But I want you to know that any corruption or corruption you may have committed has been carved into the memory and conscience of our beloved nation. When the Day of Judgment comes, they will be questioned. It must be known that no political man will ever remain in power. The AKP's government, which does everything for its own good and continues to do so, will one day go away and pay for what it has done. One day, neither law nor appointed officers will save the AKP. The account of what has been done will be questioned, and those who do all sorts of corruption and unlawful deeds for their own benefit and benefit will be put under the burden of their actions. Our beloved nation will not forever forgive those who launder corruption under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Today's power will be remembered in the dark pages of our nation's conscience. I hereby await your support for our amendment proposal, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0432par0058	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion for a new clause, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Local Services Act, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Code of Laws; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law on Population Services Act; Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal on the Amendment; İstanbul Commissioner's Proposal on the Law on Information Act on Information; İstanbul MP's Amendment to the Law on Information Act; İstanbul Law on Humanity; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Constitution; 2559 Agreement on the Constitutional Law on the Constitution; İstanbul Commission on the Constitutional Law and the Constitution on the Constitution of Law and the Constitution on the Constitution of Humanment of Humanment of Law on Humanity and the Law on Humanment of Humanment; The Security of Humanity of Humanity of the Law; The Law on Humanity of the Law and the Security of the Law on Human Law on Humanity of the Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and the Law on Human Law and the Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and the Law on Human.; The Law on Human.; The Code of Human Rights and the Law on Human "At the end of each year, the governor's report has been issued concerning other duties other than military duties by the governor's office on the subject of property duties for the coast security district commanders. Evaluation reports are taken into account in the promotion, awarding, appointment and replacement of personnel. The content and regulations of the evaluation reports are organised by a regulation by the Ministry of Interior to be adopted by the National Ministry of Defence," he said. After Article 61 in the shape of Article 61, we propose that the following item be neglected and that other substances be identified accordingly. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Tekirdağ...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0433par0069	Mr. President, we're rolling.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0432par0070	He's out. There's another motion, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Population Services; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioners for Humanity Services Act; Minister of Humanity and the Law on Humanity Services Act; Minister of Humanity of Humanity; Ýs Kazakkale İs Kashdemirimdemir's Propos on the Amendment; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koğal's Proposal's Proposal on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Law on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Rights Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity and Agreement on Humanity and Agreement on the Law on Humanment of Humanity of Humanity; İstanbul Law on the Law on the Law and the Law; İstanbul Laws Law on the Law on Humanity of Humanity of Humanity; The Law on Humanity of Humanity of Human Law on Human Law; The Law of Humanity and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; The Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law on Human Law and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law and Law and Law on Human Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law; İstanbul Law and Law on Human Right; İstanbul Council of Humanment of Human Law on Humanment of Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul (Bs) After that, we propose that the following item be added and the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Ali Serindağ Ensar Öğüt Haydar Akar Gaziantep Ardahan Bigeli...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0434par0076	We're rolling, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0432par0077	He's out. There are three motions in Article 62, one violation of the Constitution, two amendment proposals, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanal's Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law on the Law of Public Laws and Laws, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in the Law of Population Services, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Caplan's Proposal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Propos on the Law on the Law of Law on Laws and Amendments in the Law of Population Services; Ministership of Laws of Humanity, Ýs Kashdemirimimimimimimimimimimimaz's Propos for Amendment in the Laws Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Identity Act on Information; İstanbul MP Mehmet Tanal for Change; İstanbul Sezgin's Law; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilılı; İstanbul's Act on Humanment on Humanity; İstanbul Law on the Laws Law; İstanbul Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Law; İstanbul Council; İstanbul Laws Laws Office on Humanment; İstanbul Law on the Law on Law on the Law on Laws Office of Law on Law on Law on Law and Law on Laws and Law; İstanbul Council; İstanbul Commissioner; İstanbul Council on Law on Humanment; 25; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul Council on Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment of Law on Law on Law on Law on Humanment and Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul Law on Humanment; İstanbul Council on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Public; 25; 25; 25 on Law on Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices Office on Laws Offices Offices Office on Laws on Laws on Law on Law on Laws on Law on Law on Law on Laws on Laws on Law on Law on Laws on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on The Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended by the Home Secretary for a alleged misdemeanor offense for their 21/A-military duties. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. Law number 353, Law 926, Law 31/1/2013, and Article 6413 of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law, temporary dismissal, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." We offer and propose that the 62nd article in the form be changed in the following way. Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Bulent Belen Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Ali Longırmak "A clause 21/A below is added to Law 62-2692, following Article 21st. Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended from office by the Minister of Internal Affairs at the offer of the Coast Guard Commander, who is considered to be in danger of keeping him in office due to a alleged crime of 21/A-Property duties. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. Law number 353, Law 926, Law 31/1/2013, and Article 6413 of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law, temporary dismissal, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "The following article has been added to Law 2692 after Article 21. The Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended by the Interior Minister for a alleged misdemeanor offense for their 21/A-military duties. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Law on Military Courts No. 25/10/1963 and Court of Appeals, dated 27/7/1967 and dated 926 Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 31/1/2013 and issued in the Turkish Armed Forces Discipline Act 6413, is a temporary discharge, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." Ali Serindağ Ahmet Toptaş Tanju Özcan Ali Sarıbaş Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer Now, I'm going to have the Constitution read and processed the violation motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and that the Constitution and the Constitution and the Court of Law shall be issued under Article One of the First Amendment to the Amendment to the Law and Law Laws under the Law and Law Law Act 684, which violates universal law norms and fundamental human rights, and that the bill shall be removed and proposed because of violation of the Constitution of Article 62 of the Constitution and Article 62 of the Act, and that the only party -- the one man -- is the dictatorship and beyond the police state -- is the practice of war. Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Abdullah Levent Tüzel Demir Çelik Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0435par0116	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0432par0117	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0436par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0432par0119	Mr. Iron Steel, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0437par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on Article 62 of Law Bill 684. I salute you. Mr. President, good lawmakers, if justice, law, freedom, and peace are a product of a law, then it's a full-blown act of law. If war is what is destined for a law and law, if it is sovereignty, it is service to the sustainability of hegemonic and agitative power, it is not the process of the democratic country's legislature. Therefore, each step we take is the most fundamental phenomenon that should be considered in accordance with universal law, democratic society law. If we ignore democratic society law, we, with a universal illegal practice, in this dimension of globalization, in the world of revolutionary, enormous movements of communication in today's world, at a far and far-off point, will block ourselves, politically, we will surround ourselves. Therefore, what is to be understood from my speech just now is that if civilization is wanted, democraticization is the only step that must be lifted from the people's will. As long as you do not remove the National Security Council, as long as you do not establish an antidemocratic constitution, as long as you continue to fear your people, your beliefs, your citizens, your national security policies, the only thing you will be able to take refuge in is security, but first, your self-confidence, your new social concept on your self-esteem, when you begin to act on the basis of human, conscience and political ethics, a new identity and spirit that has been free of fear and self-confidence, instead of being afraid of your neighbors, your citizens, your people, but instead of developing your own confidence, you will be the fundamental transformation of religion. See, the Middle East is getting mixed up, reshaped. If you want to take part in the Middle East, in the role modeling, in the Middle East, where the changing, changing world is just centralized, we have a new identity, a new social concept. If you say so, we need to have a relationship that corresponds to today's new spirit, instead of security, denial, assimilationist politics, peaceful, democratic, libertarian spirit. So what you call the public is not just barracks and not a police station alone; what you call the public is the whole political, social, cultural activity with its government, from your house to your street to your state, with your government -- it's production, it's labor, it's thinking, it's thinking, it's organizational, it's participation in life. When you deprive yourself of democratic participation, when you don't produce art, literature, culture, when you organize yourself and restrict the search for rights on the basis of freedom, there will be no transformation there, there will be no transformation there, and there will be no transformation there, you will find the passive, passive, convinced society that has been accepted into the passive, passive, biat culture, you will find its society. Therefore, public space is a mosque, a cinema, a theatre, a synagogue, a mosque, a church. So what you call the public is all of the areas where life's ecological, women's liberal paradigm exists. And if they don't exist on them, then maybe you can save today when you try to control the community with security policies, but that dark, pitchy night, which is built on the fact that the sun will not be covered with clay, that it will shine, that it will burst, that it will shine, that it will shine, that it will shine, that it will shine, that it will shine, that it will shine on us. [[The microphone was turned off by the electronic device]] Therefore, when the road is near, it says that we must seek a secure, liberal, democratic, peaceful country, where we must once again offer your attention, pay your respects, say good night.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0438par0128	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0439par0129	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0438par0130	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on Humanity Act; İstanbul Commissioner's Law on Humanity Services Act on Amendments; İstanbul MP İs Khankale İs Kashdemirdemir's Proposal Proposal on the Code of Information; İstanbul MP's Proposal Proposals to Change in the Law on Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli Kaplan's Law on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Commission on Human Rights Law; İstanbul Laws Laws Laws Office on Humanity and Laws on Laws and Laws Amendments Orders Orders to Change; İstanbul of Laws Law on Law on Peace; İstanbul Law on Peace and Laws Offices Offices Offices Offices on Humanment; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Laws on Human Law on Human Law on Laws and Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul of Humanment of Law on Humanment of Human Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Law on Laws and Law on Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws Offices and Law on Laws Offices Offices Offices and Law on Law; İstanbul; İstanbul; İstanbul "The following article has been added to Law 2692 after Article 21. The Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended by the Interior Minister for a alleged misdemeanor offense for their 21/A-military duties. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. The Law on Military Courts No. 25/10/1963 and Court of Appeals, dated 27/7/1967 and dated 926 Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act 31/1/2013 and issued in the Turkish Armed Forces Discipline Act 6413, is a temporary discharge, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." 62 in shape. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0440par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0438par0143	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0441par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0438par0145	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0442par0148	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on Article 62 of Law Bill 684. Dear lawmakers, we are again faced with a bill that violates the assurances provided in Articles 19, 20, 21, 22 and 34 of the Constitution, violates the principle of the law state of respect to human rights referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution which cannot be changed, which violates the principle of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is against the Constitution of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, which the Republic of Turkey has signed and approved and enforced. Dear lawmakers, in the domestic security package, the goal is to increase the police's authority to leave the judiciary out of the system, narrow down the freedoms, and suppress social opposition. The AKP's pressure is increasing daily in our country, and the AKP believes it can only survive this way. This bill is the product of such a mindset. The recent events in this country are the result of the fact that lawlessness has been intrinsic. The Prime Minister can't convince himself or the public that he's the Prime Minister. He still thinks he is Prime Minister and AKP President, unaware that the President should be neutral. He was unable to forget the group meetings he used to hold at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and now every week he gathers the heads of chiefs to the illegal palace and gives them a group meeting.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0443par0153	Don't you guys have anything else to do?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0442par0154	He's doing rallies, asking the AKP to vote, even threatening the people, and he's saying, "Pretty much bring 400 deputies."
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0444par0155	You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0442par0156	Listen, listen, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0445par0157	Don't you guys have anything else to do?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0442par0158	Of course, we can't help but wonder what will happen if it's not beautiful. This law is now added to the law offering the Constitution to cover crimes against the legal system and state order and to create a police state. It's not really possible to understand that this fascist law, this law of persecution, is presented to society as a kind of democracy and freedom reform. I am the one who gave emri upon the death of eight people on the trip, the injury of tens of thousands and the injury of thousands. This isn't going away; we're warning you guys. Dear MPs, when the Prime Minister and the ministers of the period were asked questions about Pennsylvania, we knew him very well. We gave them what they wanted. Those who responded in the manner of answering now began to call them parallel construction. For years, you stood side by side with each other - law, law, law, justice, education, health, and many other areas. There was an earthquake on the morning of December 17th, when things were in order, and corruption and thefts arose. All of a sudden, your accomplices were parallel structures, and they were violent. The insects appeared, and the Ergenekon, which was created in the scripts, was destroyed, and the sledgehammer broke, and all this was a plot. So, I'm asking you, is the government the office to complain or the office to perform? At the end of 12 years of ruling, does a prime minister have the right to complain that the parallel structure has surrendered the state? Of course not. If you claim that someone has taken over the state, then who has delivered it? Of course it's you. A government that confesses to this is supposed to return the trust to its owner, the nation. You didn't do this, but on June 7th, people will take the trust from you and hand it over to the Republican People's Party, who has the seriousness and responsibility to carry it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0446par0163	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koheeli MP Mehmet Hilal Şilan's Law Proposal, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Amendments in Population Services Law, Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for amendments in the Law and Law of Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposition; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal on the Law on the Law of Population Services Act; Vice of Law on Laws and Amendments of Humanity; Minister of Human Rights of Humanity, Ýs Kashdemirımımımım İsım İsım Kashdemir's Proposal's Proposal Act on the Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezginal Law on the Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulululu and the Law on Al-Keğiğişımımımımımımımımı; İstanbul Commission on the Law on the Law Act; İstanbul Council of Humanment of Humanment; İstanbul Council of Human Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law on Human Law; İstanbul Law on the Law; İstanbul Council of Human Law on the Law on the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Human Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Humanment of Human Law; İstanbul Law; İstanbul's Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on Humanment of Public Law; İstanbul Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Humanment of Human Rights Law; İstanbulment of Human Law on the Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights Office; The Law on Human Law on Human Law on Human Rights "The following Article 21/A is added to Law 2692 after Article 21. The Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended by the Home Secretary for a alleged misdemeanor offense for their 21/A-military duties. The Coast Guard Commander can make an offer when necessary. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. Law number 353, Law 926, Law 31/1/2013, and Article 6413 of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law, temporary dismissal, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." We offer and propose that the 62nd article in the form be changed in the following way. "MEDDE Law 62-2692 is added to Article 21/A following Article 21. Coast Guard Command personnel may be suspended from office by the Minister of Internal Affairs at the offer of the Coast Guard Commander, who is considered to be in danger of keeping him in office due to a alleged crime of 21/A-Property duties. Preliminary examination or investigation of suspended personnel will begin within ten days at the latest. Law number 353, Law 926, Law 31/1/2013, and Article 6413 of Turkish Armed Forces Disciplinary Law, temporary dismissal, suspension, and temporary suspension. The suspension of civil servants is subject to Code 657." Ali Longırmak (Admin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0447par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0446par0179	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0448par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0446par0181	Mr. Ali Longırmak, Aydın MP, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0449par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a commitment to our motion on Article 62. My deepest regards to all of you. Dear lawmakers, the legislature, of course, implements a method that even Roman law forbids even pre-nation laws, and it is called democracy. Dear lawmakers, it's a big freak if you claim that a modern democracy could actually negotiate a bag of legislation that even Roman law banned in 98 BC. In the United States of America, in the presidential system that you care about, the bag is banned from 43 states in the 48 states. How can we discuss such a bag of legislation? In the same offer as closing the face, you bring up things like the Molotov, which can change the hierarchy of the state's institutions, change the structure completely, make it seem all right to the citizens, maybe even us, even the Molotov, which we vote accept, you vote in the same bag with things that change the hierarchy of the state. Do you expect a result, a mind, a morality, dear lawmakers? Is Turkey's problem a lack of law, or are the laws you make with some excuse? I'd like you to think about this with your mind. Look, if you look around a little bit, in 2000, 2001, 2002, in the fight against terrorism, under the laws of that day, you've changed these laws ten times -- terrorism has fallen into six martyrs, and the number of terrorist incidents has fallen to 164. When you came to power in 2002 and after Oslo's agreement today, the number of martyrs with our Turkish Armed Forces and Police has risen to 1,300, 1,600. So there's a problem not from lack of law, but from not being able to govern. Of course, look, now that you're claiming the Molotov, and we've supported it, we've supported it, despite all that, but aren't you doing some research, precious lawmakers? On 1 July 2014, the newspapers wrote, saying he was sentenced to 11 years on charges of Molotoving. So there's no such thing as a lack of punishment for the Molotov, it's getting heavier. According to the newspapers, a citizen named Sadi Ibish was tried for 15 years in prison after a protester threw stones during the 6-7 October Kobani protests. How do you say the law is insufficient? Are you using these actions as a means of changing the hierarchy of the state as a means of psychological action? Yes, you're using them as a means to an end. You're scared. When you say "you," the rulers in power are afraid. A lot of our friends here don't even investigate. Look, valuable lawmakers, 163,000 people remain prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons. Around 200,000 people have been arrested in the dark. About 7.5 million files are in upper and local courts, 67% of these cases are in economic crime and 2.5 million in higher courts. 67% of 7.5 million cases are economic crimes. You're talking about the good economy in Turkey, the prosperity of the people. Almost everyone is guilty when you get the age rate of the crime of 7.5 million cases. Look, you're not seeing things right. You're pushing people into a psychology that, with the help of Somalia, you're bragging about other aid, but this country has paid $11 billion in debt interest in 12 years, $11 billion in your power. So, is it important for the country to pay $11, or to help someone else -- whatever the amount is? Where do these come from? You're scared. You make these laws because you're afraid of other events, such as travel events, throughout the Turkish people, not to actually fight terrorism, but to make concessions. In fact, it's a pressure because you're afraid of the economic, social, political situation that a citizen comes from... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in order to establish these laws, you're changing the hierarchy of the state. For him, we call this law a law of persecution, except for those we support. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit09spe0450par0195	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-11sit10spe0450par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 684. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Konya MP Mr. Kerim Özkul and Kırıkkale MP Mr. Ramazan Can and 45 MPs; and with the Law Proposal and Plan and Budget Commission Report on Changes in Some Law and Law Decisions. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, it is agreed that the bill and proposals will be held to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of Thursday (March 12th 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
