tbmm-2015-03-23sit01spe0001par0076	Congressmans, I am opening the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKPM) Anne Brasseur was granted an official visit to our country as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 4th 2015 and 95th. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 7/7 of the 3620 Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Social aid practices in Turkey have been transformed by AKP governments into a means of political abuse. These benefits from the state budget, which is the duty of the social state, must be delivered to the rights owners and increased their effectiveness. In order to study and determine the measures that must be taken, our Constitution is 98, 104, and 105. By establishing the Commission for Research, we demand and demand the investigation of the problem. 30/11/2012 [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The concept of "Social State," which entered under the 1961 Constitution as a fundamental element under the title "The Qualities of the Republic," is the second amendment of the 1982 Constitution. It's been repeated in the matter. According to the widely accepted recognition, the social state is a state that is charged with the function of improving social inequality through providing social security without changing the economic and political foundations of classical liberal democracy, preventing unemployment, protecting living people with its hard work and raising the levels of life. It is not only the state of providing the individual with classical freedoms, but it is also its duty to provide them with the material needs they need to live as human beings. In this context, social security, social welfare and services are not a blessing the state has given its citizens, but it is its primary duty to reach the well-being community. The concept of social welfare is included in the social security system, along with social services and social insurance. The concept of welfare is defined as public activities to provide free financial and social support for people who are unable to make a minimum living for reasons they do not have, based on the research of poverty, which is to make themselves adequate as soon as possible. It is easily understood from the fact that half the working population in Turkey is unregistered and that unemployment benefit is being used outside the scope of the Fund. The problem of "deprivation" in our country due to unemployment in recent years has been growing, and the current policies are insufficient to come up with solutions. In recent years, large increases in the number of people who have benefited from social benefits and the spending of social benefits have been a sign of this situation. According to the DPT study "The Effects of Social Transfers on Poverty in Turkey," 30 per cent of the poorest in Turkey do not benefit from social benefits. In addition, there are 6.3 million people who could be poor with a small loss of income. The result section of the study emphasised that the same aid, which has become a widespread transfer form in Turkey in particular over the last few years, is a form of help that is low and can vary from the audience. Its effectiveness in social benefits in Turkey has been low since the past, but it has been almost institutionalized by the current government. The AKP's government is acting to "run poverty" instead of curing poverty. Social benefits used as an instrument of controlling and discipline of poor peoples have been transformed into a means of political abuse during the current ruling period. During every election period in particular, we have repeatedly witnessed the government using electricity-free villages in the middle of winter to distribute refrigerators or coal in the summer heat to vote on welfare benefits. These contributions from the state budget, which is the social state's mandate, are presented to poor masses as a blessing from AKP power and show very serious jumps during election times. Taking into account three consecutive elections over the next three years, the government is trying to design social benefits in the 2013 budget with this perspective. With that respect, it would be appropriate to investigate social aid practices that have been politicised by ruling parties in our country under the above issues. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The right to education in the native language, a very important component of the right to education, is not recognised to children whose native language is different from Turkish in Turkey. In order to investigate the difficulties caused by children who can't study their native language in cognitive, sensory, social and identity development, I propose that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The native language is the language in which man first communicates with the outside world, begins to know and understand the world, in which he lives in the first steps of identity development. Therefore, education in the native language is essential in individuals' spiritual, mental, identityal, and social development. In Turkey, as in many other countries, many languages are spoken differently from the dominant language. But none of these are used in the language of education from the most widely spoken to to the least spoken. Many multilingual, multiethnic countries, such as Turkey, have adopted multilingual language in the education system. In Turkey, talks about the native language and education are moving on a very new and very limited scale, due to an ill-fledged view that multilingualism will divide the populations. However, as the various practices in many parts of the world have proved, it would be a major step in getting to know the right to education in the native language, religion, language-based discrimination. Under Article 29 of the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, which Turkey is a party to, entity states agree that child education should be intended for the following purposes; the 30th article of the contract is entitled to use and improve the language that children's parents speak. However, in Turkey's educational system, children who differ from Turkish language and don't even speak Turkish are subject to the same education as those who are native language in Turkish. This violates the principle of equality in education and the above goals of education. Tove Skutnabb-Kangas, who works on language policies and human rights, also describes the child's education in a language he does not know as a violation of child's rights. The consequences of these conditions are obvious. Children who begin their education in a language that is different from their native language are widely seen as repeats of classrooms, dropouts, academic failures. In particular, children who face serious difficulties with the first stage of education suffer a loss of self-esteem, and these inequality conditions are often seen in their future. However, governments are obliged to give their citizens equal education rights. Many countries, such as Bolivia, Spain, South Africa, Germany, Israel and Sweden, employ multilingual training models. The application shows differences from country to country, but the recognition of the right to education in the native language as a partner in all these countries and the removal of at least obstacles from the rights of states. When we consider the issue of the mother tongue through the right to education, we see that the right to education and the equality of opportunities in education depend directly on it. It is not possible to discuss the equality of education without basic conditions such as learning the native language, feeling the value of its native language, and starting education with its native language. Children who begin their education in their native language are more successful in all areas, including mathematics. It also does not fail to learn the language that is dominant throughout society, but children who have begun their studies in their native language have learned a second language quite successfully. Thus, children who are educated in their native language will have more control of the common language and will be more successful in their relationship with society. Studies in countries implementing dual language-based training models show that with this kind of training, children's creativity, self-esteem, self-expression skills, imagination, and participation in social activities have increased greatly. In social life, ethnicity-based discrimination is most evident in language. Therefore, the right to education in the native language must be recognized quickly and taken serious steps to eliminate the persecution of non - Turkish peoples. It is essential for children who cannot study their native language to avoid problems in both academic and social areas to ensure equality in education. Due to the above reasons, it is important to conduct a comprehensive parliamentary study of the challenges facing children who are not native to Turkey and to determine models that can be implemented to address the difficulties. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the groups that has been heavily violated in Turkey is disabled. Even though the problems facing disabled persons -- in everyday life, segregation policies -- are guaranteed by law -- are required to open Parliamentary Research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that the rights that they cannot and cannot access may be brought to the agenda. [[Mardin]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In Turkey, 12.29 per cent of the population is disabled, according to the latest research conducted by the President of the Prime Ministerial Responsibility Administration in 2002. According to this rate, about 8,500,000 people in Turkey live as disabled people, and today the number is close to 10 million people. Even though the disabled cover so much of the population, the government's work remains largely inadequate, facing serious problems in social life. In 2008, Turkey signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled. The contract is based on the fact that disabled people worldwide lack equal access to basic rights and freedoms and aims to prevent any discrimination based on disability and strengthen the human rights of the disabled. In Turkey's legislation, anti-discrimination regulations are often no more than general equality regulations. The anti-discrimination provisions added to various laws over the past decade are far from eliminating discrimination due to the lack of emphasis on the basis of discrimination, the absence of discrimination definitions, the failure to comply with the principle of displacement of evidence burdens, the lack of sanctions and the lack of independent monitoring mechanisms. Rights violations against disabled persons in Turkey cover a wide range of rights from the right to life to the issue of accessibility. In this case, discrimination, violence, hate speech, humiliation, pity, constant in need of help and so on. (PHP 3, PHP 4) One of the most common problems is at the point of access to public spaces and services. The nearest example is that the disabled elevator to Rim Square has been shut down indefinitely due to the work launched for the pedestrianization of the taxi. In 2011, the Watcher for Equal Rights Association reported violations of the disabled in Turkey's Crissibility and Rights Violation Report as statistics. The report includes cultural definitions of disabled individuals in Turkey by Professor Dr. Elvira Burcu: the results of the Ankara Example investigation. " How do you feel about disabled individuals in the community? How do you define them as individuals?" 39.4 per cent of respondents to the open-ended question, "They're miserable, they need constant attention and help." he said, "I don't know what you're talking about. The problem with disabled women and disabled children in the disabled population is more intense rights violations. The turnout rate of the disabled population is only 22 per cent, while the turnout of the disabled is down to 7 per cent. The capital wants to keep disabled labor out or run in the most unsafe, most flexible working conditions possible. The state is also acting on capital logic, not even following its own laws on employment. All of these problems, mentioned primarily, must be examined and addressed in detail. In addition, studies should be carried out to end the disadvantaged position of disabled individuals within the community, whose rights should be guaranteed constitutionally, and they should be able to use those rights in practice. All these problems and solutions are required to open Parliamental research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code for the purposes of the necessary investigations. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'd like to invite the members of the group. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Monday (23/03/2015), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 7 January 2015, it was given by the Deputy Chairman of the Bingöl Group İdris Baluken (1313 rows no. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament shall be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to "resolve the victims of workers and to investigate the problems of subcontractors," despite the conclusion of the lawsuits filed by the unions of subcontracted staff working as subcontracted workers, and to be read in the same session Monday (23/03/2015). People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0002par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on the parliamentary inquiry motion on behalf of our group. I salute you all. First of all, I congratulate you all on the past holiday of neuroses. I hope it will lead to democracy and peace in terms of Turkey's future. I want to renew our promise to our people here once again that we will work hard as a group to rule democracy and peace in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to consider the unfairness of the working world in Turkey, perhaps the symbolic cause of injustice, the legal struggle of road workers since 2011, and the government's legal stance against it, but first I want to make a determination. I'll first share with you a few data on it, and then I'll make general assessments. We're talking about about about 8,000 workers, the government's laborer for minimum wage. Some have worked for ten years, 15 years, indefinitely, and at some point they have been sacrificed to these privatisation policies. Right now, each one of them is having trouble bringing home the bread. Because they are past their age, because some of them have reached the age of retirement, there is no other job, and there is no employment in another sector. Since 2011, there has been a legal struggle that has been going on for nearly five years. The Supreme Court 9th in 2013. His office has decided to extradite these people, but two years have passed, and the government does not insist on the decision of the court. Let me be clear, the government has declared that it does not recognise the law on this matter, insisting that the court does not enforce its decision. Although we've talked about this over and over again with the relevant ministry, these people's problems have not been solved. Each time, we had another reason for each of these laborers, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security -- to keep these people busy with new promises, empty promises, so far. Well, if around 8,000 people were working with the government's minimum wage, this subcontractor, working with the subcontractor's ability, what burden would that bring to the government's treasury, I'd share with you a piece of data about it. If all of these people were employed, including social security premiums, the government's treasury would cost about 160 million a month. One trillion a year brings loads to the treasury of the state around 920 million. All of which you can appreciate is that it's a palace money, so the price that the government will pay for 8,000 people is worth the cost of a palace that the top man of the state made so that he could live in a glass palace. I'm not talking about the expenses inside the palace, it's just that the government can afford a year's wages at the cost of a palace for dry construction. It's only a tenth of the government's spending within the palace campus. Look, if the government gives the workers one tenth of the annual burden of the palace's treasure in Fivetepe, they will all have paid their wages, and 8,000 people will have the opportunity to bring bread to their homes. So, if all 8,000 of these people are given a court order today, will they all be reinstated? No, most of them are going to retire anyway, because about half of them are old enough to retire. With the government implementing this decision, the number of people he's going to hire is about 4,000 people per ball, so if the government gives half of what I just said, they'll be compensated for their efforts, that injustice will be eliminated. But it's not being done, and it's persistently, the government is making an effort not to grant the rights of these workers, saying they don't know the law. I've only shared a number on the wages paid to these workers, but if these workers were working, when you take into account the added value they'd create, they'd be worth adding to the value of this country to make five Fivepe palaces a year. I mean, we're talking about people who make, who produce. Based on what? When you calculate the money that has been paid to maintenance and repair roads through privatisation in the last two years, you can find that figure very easily. Ten times the amount of money that these people will be paid is given to subcontractors with the ability to privatize, and the government budget is stripped and turned into onions through the subcontractors. Now, we've got a research proposal here, we wanted Congress to deal with these people's problems, we wanted to solve this problem, but we know exactly how the ruling party group will react. Because, look, just a few days ago, the Minister of Labor has made a statement that we will solve this problem fundamentally in October. He didn't say which October, he promised only in October that these workers would solve the problems of these workers. But I think that the public in Turkey knows very well what these promises of government actors mean, and we don't need to translate them. There is no point in seeking sincerity in these words because these words are not spoken for the first time, they have been spoken many times, but especially if these words come out of the mouth of Labour Minister Faruk Çelik. The public, especially the workers, know very well that this means nothing more than deception.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0003par0027	So, he was on duty in October?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0002par0028	Now, it doesn't say what October it is because they know they won't be able to see a October anymore. After a few days, we'll enter April, we'll live in the seagull, and it'll be a long time before October, and because of the end of June 7th, it'll mean nothing. Dear friends, I have three court orders, Supreme Court 9. These are the decisions of the legal department. The government is responsible for implementing these decisions. It's illegal to do the opposite of those decisions, not to know the law. The government has shown many times that it does not recognise the law, but especially in terms of the government, it is a violation of the law. It is extremely embarrassing that these decisions have not been fulfilled. There's a very clear picture in the middle, in the middle, that there's a situation in the middle where the need for these decisions has not been fulfilled, which is a conflict between the ministries. What is it? If these highway workers are returned to their jobs based on the decision of the Supreme Court's Law Office, the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Transport do not insist on its cooperation, as it would be a precedent for other injustices in the working world. Now we want Congress to take over this problem, we want Parliament to take over this problem. This is not a situation for any party or group to oppose, it's a matter of the bread our people will put on their table, it's a matter of the sweat of our workers. Opposition is incompatible with conscience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, the Parliament must take over this problem and provide its solution, and I hope that everyone will say yes to it. I salute the House.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0004par0034	Thank you. Alim Ikım, Kütahya MP, who has asked against the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the People's Democratic Party Group. I'd like to rephrase my so-called argument against you under the rules of the Civil Code. I'd like to start by saying that the court's decision should be carried out immediately, on the grounds that our contractors work as subcontractors on various highways, have the same work done by staffed workers who work at the same institution, and that they should have the same rights as workers working in permanent labor staff. It is our duty to submit the facts of Turkey to you and to our valued citizens who are watching us today, knowing that the outcome will not change, as it has been so far. That's what I'm gonna do, that's what I'm gonna try to do. Dear lawmakers, there is no example in Turkey that only the highest judicial office of workers on the highways has not implemented their sanctioned decisions. There are many such examples. The different ministries have court orders from many of our workers who have applied to the judicial authorities for the removal of the victims because they have been victimized in the same way before and have done the same work with staffed workers. For example, in a 2011 case brought against the Ministry of Energy by Department of Labor and Social Security inspectors, there is a court order for employees working at the Citadels of Kütahya Emet Emet Emet Eti Borik Acid Facility to be given the same position as staffed workers. Four years passed, it didn't apply. Forty-two months passed here, it doesn't apply. So the government persists in its practice, which undermines the state of law, undermining the law. The end of this stubbornness is not no. Here's another example: State Officers of the National Defence Ministry, Chief of Staff, and Chief of Staff, who have been published on March 21, 2012, and in the Official Gazette 28240, who have served in the General Staff and under the Command of the Chiefs of Staff and under the Command of the Unvan Change, the Chiefs of Justice, unfortunately, do not resist taking the general administration classes of executive services from these institutions, which have been decided to be transferred from the assistant service class to the general service class of the executive services of the executive services of the executive staff of the Turkish Armed Forces and the Joint Chiefs of General Staff, but are in charge of implementing the law. It is possible for us to consider a number of examples and unlawfulness such as these. But they all have one thing in common: the government, which is tasked with ruling Turkey, does not recognise the law, does not recognise justice, ignores the principles of the law. We invite the government to exercise justice, to uphold the principles of the law, and to address the victims of our citizens in the final part of its mission, at least for good. Dear lawmakers, the subject of subcontractorial labor is an important issue that many of my friends from this bench have repeatedly expressed, with highly valued lawmakers from the opposition party insisting on and inviting the government to come up with a solution. However, unfortunately, as so far as today, we have no time, no time, no friends who are likely to be speaking on behalf of the ruling party today. Therefore, there are more important matters, there is no need for them. He will say, "There is no need for them. " We came here knowing that. But the country's problems have grown more and more. In particular, the victims of unemployment, subcontractor work, the public, the university graduate son, must go to the city and county services of the ruling party to become subcontractors, then assess their status after they become members of the party, but unfortunately, I would like to share with you one more time the fact that some of the party members are eligible for subcontractorial labor, especially if they are employed as subcontractors, even if they are working for two months or three months, the number of workers who can't get paid. In particular, one of the most common cities is my constituency of choice, Kütahya. In Kütahya, there were no privatised organisations during the AKP administrations. One of the facts behind privatisation is subcontractor work. Yes, we'll get you on minimum wage or on a small salary, for those who are employed. That's the number on the payroll and on the account, but if you want to continue, if you want insurance, you'll have to withdraw some of that salary and deposit it back to the company the next day. We live in Turkey, where even the minimum wage is very common to subcontractors as a result of a negotiation. I'll give you a very warm example: Not only in Kütahya, for example, but in Tatvan district of Bitlis, for example, the subcontractors working at the District of Family and Social Policy are not getting paid for two months today. The fact that the subcontractors who work at many such institutions cannot receive their wages on time, that they have to return a significant portion of their wages to the company, and that they have to continue to work under those heavy conditions because they have to, is also known by the lawmakers of the valuable ruling party. So it's really mind-boggling that our people, who are close to 2.5 million, are working in very difficult conditions, and when they take their patient to the hospital without permission, when they're taking him to the hospital on that day, they're looking for political routing through a fact that his fee was cut off. So he thinks he's going to raise his vote by having a college graduate join the party and then seeing as he's worthy of subcontractor work? But these are the facts of Turkey. The solution to this problem is that the Assembly must do its duty to address the very serious problems that these workers are dealing with. Of course, the most important part of this falls to the ruling party again, because it is the power's duty to solve problems, and it is our duty to give warnings and suggestions on problems. We say, "Let this council of subcontractors demonstrate their will, and let the staff of these workers be given to them." Despite the court order, I believe the rights of these workers, who have not yet been given their staff, should not be resolved. It will not be given again by the votes of the esteemed ruling party MPs, who say, "This is probably enough for our friends." Other than that, in many counties of our subcontractors, especially where they work, the fact that they're under heavy labour, that they don't get the wages they deserve, that they have no rights to equity, that they have no right to work, that they're never obeyed; that we make the law, eight hours, ten hours, but that they have to work for at least 12 hours is a fact that we all know. With these feelings and thoughts, we will vote in favor of the proposal, and I give you all one more respect.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0006par0048	Thank you. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0007par0051	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all. Dear friends, this is a file prepared by the YOL-HIS Union, beginning on May 17, 2010, and yet unresolved, about the problems of road workers. This file was given to the President, the Prime Minister, the concerned ministers, many times to the President of State Staff, but so far no solution has been found. The last time, 15 days ago, the Minister of Labor and Social Security at the General Assembly of the YOL-HIS Union received a round of applause to the hall, promised that he would give me the second good news that I had heard there, and it didn't happen. I understand that today, the day after tomorrow, on Wednesday, the Prime Minister will visit the YOL-HIS Union and give the workers the good news. I hope so. Dear friends, sub-employee implementation, sub-employee implementation of sub-employee subcontractors, especially in the public sector, is a system that has been implemented since the beginning of AKP's first government on 3 November 2002. It's basically an arrangement that's existed in our Business Law since 1936, but it's been implemented in the private sector, and public services have been seen by public employees until the AKP came to power. At the end of the 1990s, it began briefly in the mess halls, cleaning and security services at workplaces, and is now an epidemic, and has been transformed into the main form of work by AKP's policies. The goal was to reduce wages, suppress them, promote flexible working styles, make irregularity a rule, and the AKP succeeded. Another success was the AKP's concern for employees from 4/C. Before the AKP came to power, prior to 3 November 2002, Turkey-Islamics agreed with the trilateral coalition, and after privatisation took out workers who were unemployed and eliminated the 4/CLI problem. On November 3, 2002, there were only 164 employees of 4/C. Today, in the 23,000. The subcontractorial study has exceeded a million in public, even if we put aside the private sector. Dear friends, the story about the highways is long. Really, the YOL-HIS Syndicate has made it systematic. When you open your first case, it'll be five years in a month and a half from now. This issue has become a problem for 8,371 workers who are working at workplaces, without the rights of many basic rights and collective agreements signed in the Employment Law, which are shown on paper as the "tashion worker." In connection with these workers, the YOL-HIS Union first made a deal with Faruk Nafiz Ozak, the Minister of Public Works and Housing of the time. ▪ Prices are high in workplaces. We'll go to subcontractor. If you keep the wages low, we'll approve it. The union said, instead of being fired. At the time, they agreed with the Minister that day with the promise of hiring a little over minimum wage, but no, the Minister took 1,000 people. When you took the others as subcontractors, you didn't take the subcontractors from outside, you gave our workers, our union members, who worked in our workplaces for 20 years, 15 years, to subcontract workers, to the subsidiaries, to the subdivisions and tenders. That's not how it works. He's suing. He won cases one after another. The first trial ended on May 10, 2011. Workers have been proven to be road workers since the day they first took the job. After that -- I won't go into details because of your deadline -- that day's Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, asked for a staff. The Minister wrote for the staff. The Ministry of Finance said no. No. The trade union filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Finance, and he lifted his decision. Meanwhile, he paged the Ministry of Labor for these workers, signed a collective contract. The People's Employers' Union has objected to the authority of TUHIS in the collective agreement signed. The appeal has been lifted and the signed contract has not been applied to the workers, as some workers have been fired, and the extradition proceedings have been filed, and they have been won. Now, dear friends, we've also told the ministers of both the 2013 and 2014 budget talks. See, the Ministry of Labor has not implemented a ruling against the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. Why? For I will bring out the law of Tabheron, and I will make it a subcontractor. He has not taken it out. So, last year's insistence led to the death of 300 miners in Soma, 18 in Ermenek. You brought in the Law on Health and Safety, but you made me forget, you imposed the law on Homeland Security. However, the problem of occupational security awaits a solution, the subcontractor problem awaits a solution, and the problems of the 4/C are awaiting solutions. Now, for the solution, I don't apply judgment decisions in the legal state. When the ministers have to answer, why don't you answer to those ministers? While the parliament has to answer to them, they're trying to solve the problem as if they had created the problem themselves at the centre of the problem, even though they were the prime ministers. The biggest success I've already appreciated by AKP authorities is creating a problem and then trying to solve it, thinking they're doing business and swallowing it to the public. Dear friends, now, the job is to fulfill the promises. The Minister of Labor has denied or denied the rights of these workers for five years to pass subcontractor law. Now, the motion for research in this matter is a very valid motion, and the timing is good. On Wednesday, the prime minister will go to Turkey-İSK and give good news to the workers. Instead of saying, "You will put everyone in expectation, you must hand over the workers' rights that you have wrongfully taken from him. What you have to do is enforce this law. Dear friends, the real problem is the subcontractor system itself, so the system is a cruel system. At low wage, without job security, under the minimum wage, which has been unregistered in some places... so you're saying today, as Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance says that 48 per cent of employees are underpaid, 35 per cent of the economy is off the record. So what is the status of workers working here? Why... aren't you human, have a conscience? Think about the employees. Why don't you see workers, workers, workers, unemployed people, who are always throwing money into the pool, who are rich in government pouches, who are going to see businessmen, who are a little bit of sweat for this country, who are working hard, who are contributing to the development of the country. When it's their turn, they'll be able to make a budget. Dear friends, what the government proposed to the government was that they said: "You subcontractors, subcontractors, give your men whatever you're paying them, we'll split this fee to the workers, and we won't ask for an extra raise." The government said, "Yes, but the government subcontracted the pressure of subcontractors as usual." He's been disregarding the judgment for five years, not giving up the right, undermining the law. The power that starts this illegality should end it by apologizing, not giving it away, not giving it away. So in some cases, five years later, after all this pain, I'm sorry. As the Minister of Labor said, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister said, sorry, we did it wrong. I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0008par0062	Thank you. It's Recep Special, Isparta MP who's asking for a word against the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0009par0065	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party on receiving services from branch chiefs of the General Directorate of the Highways -- the staff working as subcontractors -- to be reinstated by trade unions as a result of the lawsuit against them -- regarding the opening of a parliamentary investigation due to the absence of a staff. Yes, such a problem, such a problem on our country's agenda. Of course, what's a subcontractor app that only entered our work life during the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0010par0067	There were 37,000 people, 650,000 people in the government. Is that in our era?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0009par0068	Before us, the subcontractor application was implemented and applied in other ways, as well as in the way most workplaces receive services. Of course, there's been a lot of limping in that. It's the power's duty, yes, to correct its failings. We've made some arrangements for these subcontractors here in terms of private law.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0010par0069	You've been institutionalized, Recep.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0009par0070	First of all, we've gone through the arrangement for the full deposit of the fees they've taken, the three-year contract guarantee of employment...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0011par0071	Come to the trouble of road workers, Recep.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0009par0072	...we've gone through a series of work guarantees, such as the use of their sabbaticals. Of course, I'd like to share with you the following thing: this subcontractor app, because a court has decided to put them in the government immediately... There are regulations on how workers are to be recruited, and there are applications. If we take the practice of each court order like this, it's called "populism," for that reason...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0011par0074	What populism? Execute the judgment.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0012par0075	Don't you know the court?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0013par0076	Is the court doing populism?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0077	And I'll tell you something else, in the 57th period of government, there was an incident called norm staff, right, norm staff? Now, at the end of the semester, two years later, a company took a job cleaning in a municipality. If we put the workers who work here on the norm staff of that municipality, when the new company runs again... could that happen?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0015par0078	You're not gonna bring that company, you're not gonna bring the firm back. Recep doesn't press, you don't understand, he doesn't press!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0079	How many workers will be assigned, how many workers will be employed in that job, the standard norm staff. If we put every court decision on the staff, it's called "populism." Now, in the state, it's clear what the norms are going to be with their applications. The decision of the Council of Ministers must be made first to determine what jobs to receive in the public. I'd like to underline that he needs to be determined as soon as possible. There will no longer be service and subcontractor application in all jobs, but it will be determined by the Council of Ministers' decision on what jobs to do. Since there was no clear line between aid jobs and the main jobs, there was no clear distinction, the confusion came to judgment. Yeah, there's some judgment. A study is carried out by the government at the point of which decisions are made, what practices are being made, how these decisions are being carried out, and how the victims of the workers will be eliminated here.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0015par0081	You know, on the highways, it's for the workers. What's the real job, what's the co-worker? Food is a helpful job; the real job is road repair, road construction.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0082	This does not mean that court decisions will never be carried out. In what way, in what way, if we have a victimized fellow workers, brothers and sisters, there is also an arrangement. What is the real job, what is a co-worker; the Ministry does the work here. There will soon be an arrangement. That's why we'd like everyone to be welcome. Mr. Light, who was just speaking on behalf of the MHP Group, said, "Yes, we're talking about these problems here, we have no time, we have no time; we have more urgent matters; we have urgent matters." We care about this job, the problem of subcontractors, it's important.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0016par0084	You created it, Recep. You created it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0085	It's too important to leave for a tight, tight time. Parliament closes in 15 days, and we plan to close as of April 5th. This research proposal you've submitted is not an issue that will be resolved in 15 days or 10 days, but a broader one in the coming period... Mr. Imlight also mentioned one other thing: yes, we bring this problem here so that power can solve them. Yes, the government was determined to solve these problems, and to solve them. Two months before the election, we still won't be in power, the AK PARTI will be in power, and we'll guide him.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0017par0087	Don't worry, Recep, we're coming, we'll figure it out on June 7th, don't you worry.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0088	And we thank them for not having any intention of coming to power, for guiding us, for giving us the opportunity to solve these problems. I'm saying that whatever else is on the floor of the House, the AK PARTY government, the AK PARTY, will solve power.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0017par0089	Which one? Davutoglu, Erdogan's Government, which one?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0090	The group's proposal is based on the reasons that I've just stated...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0017par0091	Which will it be, Davutoglu, Erdogan, or Bulent Arinc?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0092	In front of us, look, we're going to solve the staff problem involving 47,000 teachers, we're going to discuss some child support for the birth, we're going to discuss issues that concern the public.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0017par0093	Davutoglu, Erdogan, which one?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0014par0094	So, our agenda is really busy this week. I hope to discuss them in the 25th term, with respect and love for all of you, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0018par0097	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0019par0098	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit02spe0018par0099	That's enough to make a decision. I'm going to put the group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Monday (March 23, 2015), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda, which is part of the General Assembly's Forum and Assembly Research Preconceptions, has been proposed to be held on Monday 23/03/2015 (now) by reading the General Assembly's proposal to open its talks in today's unification, in order to determine the measures of the disabled to be taken by investigating the employment issue (10/783). Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0020par0020	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Millitarian Movement Party's motion to investigate and resolve the employment problems of our disabled citizens. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important tasks of the modern state is to develop the rights of disabled individuals, to improve their abilities and potential, and to ensure that they have equal opportunities, and to ensure the economic and social welfare of our disabled. However, services for disabled persons in our country are performed by different institutions and organisations, and there is no cooperation or coordination among them. For this reason, some 10 million disabled citizens in our country have had dozens of problems in every area from education to health, employment to transportation, but there is no way to establish a national policy on disabled people. The latest study on the disabled in Turkey is the 2002 Turkish Infirmary Research by the State Statistical Institute, under the rule of the National Movement Party. There has been no extensive investigation of the disabled in the 13-year AKP administration. In 2010 alone, there was a 2010 study of Problems and Expectations for the disabled citizens of our disabled database. The ministers in charge of women and family and social policies and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in their statement use the results of their work on the disabled in 2002 and are based on those studies. Thus, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy authorities do not recognise the number of disabled citizens in the field of responsibility, the disability situation, education, health care and employment situation. The projects that disabled organisations want to implement with state support have no resources. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy should first increase the budget of the Office of the disabled and Elder Services instead of spending millions of dollars on building and car rentals. Especially in recent weeks, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy service building, which has been reflected in public, pays $850,000 a month, $10,200,000 a year, and the owner of this building, Bayraktar Construction, can say that the rent price is also very low. On the other hand, $10,200,000 is a really big number for a ministry. According to the 2002 research results, the total population of the disabled population in our country is 12.29 per cent. Thus, the number of disabled citizens in our country has exceeded 10 million. One of the most important problems of our disabled citizens is unemployment. 77.8 per cent of disabled people are not part of the labour force. According to the 2013 O.R.S., the Responsibility Officer's Exam, 6,121, 126,175 disabled citizens have applied for an empty staff, and 5,926 disabled citizens have been placed. In our country, employment policies for disabled people are largely based on quota techniques. The Kota technique is intended for the employment phase, but the protection of pre-employees is always neglected. The number of disabled officers must be employed in the public area by Article 53 of State Officers' Law 657 is 31%. According to the January 1, 2015, the number of civil servants working in the public office is 2 million,16,768. The number of disabled officers that should be employed in the public office is 60,371. The number of disabled officers working in public is 36,165. So 24.566 disabled officers are available. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Secretaryship, Presidential Office, MIT Undersecretary, Central Bank, Agriculture Bank, People's Bank and local administration positions are not included in those figures. Not even the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy are responsible for implementing this law. So the two ministries do not comply with these laws, the conditions for the employment of our disabled citizens, and the laws of the law. In the Ministry of Labor, where the State Chief of Staff is a member of the 73-strong disabled officer staff, 59 (59) are empty, 47 disabled officers are still available at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Another problem with disability employment is gender inequality. According to the data of the State Chief of Staff, 36,165 disabled officers in the public area are only women while 28,184 are men. Thus, women are not qualified for the employment of disabled staff. Under Article 30 of the Employment Law, employers must employ 3 per cent disabled workers in private sectors where they employ 50 or more workers and 4 per cent disabled workers in public workplaces. There are 13.525 disabled workers who need to be employed in public. The number of disabled workers in the public area is 12,515, and the number of empty disabled quotas is 1,010. The disabled quota, which should be employed in the private sector, is 102,000 people, but according to August 2014, the number of disabled workers in the public and private sector is 91,378, and the difference is 10,622 empty workers. The AKP government, in turn, pledged to fill all public openings, claiming it would be the year of the disabled at the beginning of 2010. But as you can see, even in public, most of the disability quota is empty. As part of the Employment Act, the employment of disabled workers is under the authority and responsibility of the Turkish Employment Institution General Directorate. However, Turkey's Business Agency is unable to carry out its mandate to offer market labour, only to continue its employment on the basis of demands that have come to it. The workplaces that employ more than 50 people are mainly in large cities and especially in areas where the industrial and service sector is developed. In rural areas and underdeveloped areas, the disabled in these areas are unable to benefit from the quota system because there are fewer than 50 0% of workers employed. Every disabled employee or employer who does not comply with the obligation to employ a disabled worker or employer is fined 1,900 lira by İSKUR for every month he does not employ. Since this amount is not deterrent, the employer prefers to pay a fine rather than an obstacle course. One of the most important ways in the employment of disabled people is in a protected workplace. The protected workplace is a private business environment supported and financed by the state in order to provide vocational rehabilitation and employment for mentally or mentally disabled people who are difficult to bring into the labour market. Dear lawmakers, in these moments when my speech period is almost over, I call upon the ruling party and the government to make these arrangements for the employment of our disabled citizens, immediately, immediately, today, or tomorrow, before the end of the parliamentary work, for the employment of our disabled citizens. With these thoughts, I'd like to request the approval of our research proposal, and I'd like to extend my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0021par0033	Thank you. Gürsoy Erol, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0022par0036	Mr. President, on behalf of the AK PARTY, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, on the basis of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate and address the disabled employment and the solution to its problems. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, of course, when we say disabled, we're talking about a phenomenon as old as human history, an old concept. In the early days of society, or in fact, when it was called a barrier, it was a fear that when you looked at it in the early ages, children born disabled were killed, slaughtered, and thus persecuted, especially when it was related to disability, which led to our great Book of God's revelations, and then to the practices of our Grand Prophet, where the disabled should be, and how it should be valued. Today, as the Republic of Turkey, steps have been taken on many issues related to the disabled since its establishment, but we see that the first move, in a institutional sense, was created by our late prime minister, Necmettin Erbakan, who was then president of the Retardial Administration at the time -- in the first serious, legal sense, in the sense of an institution. Later, in 2005, when I was involved in the EC PARTY administrations, Turkey, along with the Crippled Law, was seriously adopted for the first time, and at this point, further work was under the law. Of course, whoever took a step in the name of the disabled, from the past period to today, I think of all of them here with respect, thanks to the disabled. First of all, I think education is the most important issue before the detection of employment, and in the Law for the disabled, we put education at the top of the list. In the past tense, the green card holders and the locals were unable to use special education services. First of all, we took the national education budget, including the green card holders and the BUG-KUR people, and that's the number of people in the 20s in those days... the number of people in private education, rehabilitation centers today is over 200,000. It is now covered by the national education budget, as well as the budget. Because education is the beginning of everything. Without education, it is impossible to do anything healthy in any way with disabled persons, just as with healthy individuals. So, beyond that move, our schools used to have a shortage of food and services. We also brought this service in the period of the EC PARTY governments, and so now in national education, the disabled continue to go to schools seriously -- I didn't get the last number -- in the more than 50,000 out of about 25,000 -- out of the 25 thousand. With integration training, often, our children continue their education activities in an obstacle-free gathering. The problem with employment with education is, of course, the first thing the disabled want is to be in society in a manner worthy of human honor. We've put a fine on this -- as we put it -- on the law -- on discrimination, both punishment and criminal fines. We took out a referendum in 2010 with our people that any action on behalf of the disabled would not be discriminated against. By the way, I would like to express to you that in 2005, we also took out the Law of the Handicapped One, with the common decision and joint support of all groups in our Parliament, that all the laws in the House, in this way, may have come out together in partnership and harmony, and that I particularly desire that it should come out. One of the most important steps we've taken in the employment of disabled persons is to separate from what we call an obstacleed KPSS exam, and in 2012, we began the first disabled KPSS. And this way, in 2002, the number of disabled people in the public is over 5,000, while it is now approaching 35,000. We're still short, but we're going to close this gap right next semester, along with the April buy-in, and with these purchases every year. We're all going to solve these problems by hand in hand in solving the disabled problem. He certainly does, but with the opposition's constructive suggestions on this, we will make sure that the disabled are more involved in community life and more involved in community work. The number of disabled workers in 2002 is now more than 30,000, so we will all increase that number together. Because the disabled want to bring their own provisions to their homes, to support their families by standing on their feet. It's one of the basic tasks of the government. Of course, with the home care services that we've brought to people in 2005 at the point of social care -- whether it's a level of education that can't work, whether it's his or her health -- that's the first time we've brought that number up in 2005 -- in 2005 -- that's over 500,000, and at this point we're talking about a minimum wage that's being paid to his babysitter, and we're talking about a very serious budget. At this point, as you know, the disabled started to go out on the street more and more and more and more. And from now on, we're going to solve one of our most important problems for the disabled by hand-to-handing the issue of accessibility. Why are we all together? At this point, municipalities in Turkey will help the disabled to reach all kinds of services, no matter what party they take. At this point, whoever puts a stone on a rock, I'm saying thank you again to each one of them, but it's not just the problem with power, it's all of us. All municipalities will join hands, and at this point, the disabled will do whatever they can to get more service in public life. Here, I mean public transportation, social spaces, access to public buildings, all of them. At this point, I believe that better days await our country, that we together, together, will solve all the problems that the disabled have at this point in power. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our founder, especially our President, for the first time he passed such a law on behalf of the disabled in 2005, and for supporting our current Prime Minister when something came up for him, and at this point, the worthy members of the opposition who did not deny their support for the disabled. We'd like our country to participate in more jobs without a distinction as disabled-free, and let the disabled be more involved in production, let's all produce together, let's go to Turkey -- in its 100th year -- let's all be together in the world's first 10 chapters. There's a lot that disabled people can do, and that's what we all see in society when we're gone. The only way to do that is to remove obstacles to the disabled. We watch what he can do, what he can produce in the press, and we follow it together in society. At this point, let's all support the disabled with love and as long as it's worthy of human honor and let's all move our country to a much better time. At this point, I'd like to thank the National Party for allowing us at least the opportunity to bring this up. At this point, with the idea that such a commission would be established in the coming days, that we wouldn't have enough time to work, that the laws that should have been passed at once, that after our decision to work as of April 5th, our Parliament would take a vacation, at this point, I spoke against the point where the commission couldn't be set up. I hope we'll do much better service for the disabled, both in the 25th and in the days after that. I salute your high council with love and respect. Have a good day.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0023par0054	Thank you. It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who's in favor of the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0024par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in favour of the group's proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to help our disabled citizens identify employment problems and develop solution proposals. I salute lawmakers who don't owe their political careers and gains to anyone's shadow. Dear friends, an offer has been made to set up a research commission on the employment problems of disabled persons. It's a shame for a government to even have such a need. I really don't feel well that this government, which has been on duty for 12 years, has been asked to set up such a research commission because it can't solve problems with the disabled. Now, I'm going to ask you a question that has already been chosen: What is the reason why a government, who has been in power for 12 years alone and who sees itself capable of everything, can't solve the problem of the disabled who are the so-called world leader? A: he doesn't care about the disabled. B) uses the problems of disabled persons. C) : It has no interest in solving this problem. d) : He's incompetent. e: all of the above. Now, we have a government that stands in the way of the disabled. Do not stand in the way of disabled persons. Don't cast a shadow, no more favors. The disabled don't want your blessing, my dear friends. The disabled don't say, "Glory to us." The disabled don't want pity on them; they don't want to be called "Wah, wah, wah." Well, what does he want, the disabled? The disabled just want their legal rights, they want to be accepted as a free and equal individual like every citizen, and they want to be perceived as a human rights problem, not as a disability problem. I mean, they say it's better to do nothing if there's something to be done with pity. Well, that's what they want, what are you doing? Your minister comes out, tells a blind citizen: "You're blind and we've given you a job, what more do you want?" Now, I don't want the disabled from this government, which is the product of such mentality, to expect anything, and I don't want them to be disappointed. What else are you doing to these disabled people? In Yalova, you purposely put them to vote, knowing that they are disabled. And then, when you realized that you had lost the election at Yalova, by a slight margin, you said, "Wow, sir, they were disabled, they didn't have a license to vote." You called it, and you canceled the election, and you used our disabled citizens to use your political ambitions again. I mean, you're not helping, so at least don't play with their dreams. You're not helping, so don't use them, don't upset them. The problems of the disabled are already numerous, and as these problems are not enough, you're also preventing them from using their legal rights, which are the rights of the Turkish National Assembly to the disabled. You're not doing the installations. Look, it's not my opinion as an opposition MP, but according to the law of this great Assembly, private institutions that employ more than 50 workers have to run 3% of state institutions with four percent disability. So, despite this arrangement, do you know how many disabled people work in Turkey despite such a ruling? It's not more than 100,000. And even more painful, statistics show: I don't mean all disabled people who can work, there are those who can't work -- and four of every five disabled people who can earn their living are unemployed. These people say to you, "Get up and do your duty. Look, come on, sometimes you're mad at the private sector, you're not talking to them anymore, you're upset with them, you're not playing with them, but go back to the public. I've looked at the vacant disabled staff in public. More than a thousand labor staffs are available in the empty public, about 25,000 of the civil servants are empty. Now, friends, the disabled say that we want a job from you, we want our legal rights, brother, you have to give. While you can employ 25,000 civil servants and over a thousand workers in public, you do not employ them while their staff is free. So, what do you do with them? Sir, it's like a maintenance allowance, pocket money, like you're giving it away from your own purse. Let's give him more, let's give him more. But that's not what the disabled want from you, the disabled say: " Brother, don't give me charity. I want to work for my rights, make money on my own terms. What's much worse than that, my dear friends: If the disabled are lucky, and someone comes to their senses or follows the law and tries to give them a job, then they have to work for very low wages. If the Minister says, "You're blind and you've given work, what more do you want?" Then other people say, "Ya, you're disabled, you're employed." That's all the money you deserve. They might say so. My dear friends, we also know that the working conditions for disabled persons are not appropriate, so we know that the working conditions for coming to work are not appropriate for them; we know that living conditions, roads, sidewalks are not appropriate. What's worse is that the medical conditions are inadequate for them, that physical therapy and rehabilitation units are not organized to address the problems of the disabled. You know, you're supposed to be revolutionizing health, but you're getting your hands off where you can't make money. That's what you did to the disabled. Because the disabled don't have money in their pocket, and you can't take it out of their pockets, you don't solve their health problems willingly, knowingly. Because statistics say that 44.3 per cent of people are unable to use health care. The disabled suffer from their contribution to health. The disabled suffer from failure to pay their prosthetics and orthothetic fees. They say your chief physicians publish the general, saying: "Put prosthetics and oresthetics on second, third plan, return capital is damaging, otherwise I can't give you a return capital contribution." I showed you the document here, and I'll publish it soon. Is it fate for the disabled to be disabled? No, it's your government's problem again. Not only are the drivers responsible for traffic accidents, but your government is responsible for that, because of the way he does it, the way he thinks he does it. Preemptive diseases, vaccinable diseases, especially because of the SSPE disease after measles. Since you can't vaccinate our children, our children get measles, and you say that your Minister's number has increased by exactly 7,000 last year, and some of these kids are going to have SSP disease and become disabled. Because of the lack of care in early births, because you can't clean mines, the disabled army you created, the problems at home, the problems at home, the problems at home that can't be solved peacefully, especially because you can't solve them in peaceful ways, and because you provide personal and various religious benefits, you create disability every day. Nothing's changed with the disabled, my friends, because you went up there and changed the word "sorry." So let's do our job before we play with words. Our congressman, who just spoke, said: "Education is important, we want education." There you go, set up this commission. Work for a month, work for two months, work for anything. Sir, when I thanked Mr. President, I was a little chilled, sir, that he made the first law in the world in 2005. I looked, and you passed a law that would take effect in 2012, and three days away, you passed that law back to 2015. What was that law? Let the disabled walk the streets, so Turkey can be unstoppable. With three days left, you postponed the situation in the cars and buses to 2018, to 2015. Shame on you guys, shame on you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0025par0075	Thank you. Ismail Tamer, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0026par0078	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge against Parliamentary research on the employment of our disabled brothers and sisters of the National Movement Party. I salute you all. Actually, disability is above politics. I think it's wrong for us to argue here by exposing politically disabled people. Every individual in society is also a candidate for disability. We need to keep that in mind. So, my dear friend, Gursoy Erol Bey, of the disabled, has made a large statement, and I won't touch it very much, but I want to make it clear that the Law of the disabled in 2005 means something. Things have been done that haven't been done so far. In particular, the number of disabled in both public and private jobs has been increased. That number, around 5,000, is up to 35,000 today. We have a lot of work to do with disabled people. Our co-operation with the municipalities and our efforts to facilitate the lives of the disabled -- in pursuit of them. In that sense, I would like to point out that the disabled are very important to us in society, and we need to say that whatever needs to be done for them, we and our friends at all political parties, we can do it. Besides, with what we've done... the disabled are important, precious to us, our work continues. I give you all my love and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0027par0083	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0028par0085	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0027par0086	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0029par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0027par0088	Please...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0029par0089	Mr. Orator says they did a lot for the disabled, talking about the law they passed in 2005. The application of the Law issued in 2005 was postponed until 2015.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0030par0090	No, no, that's different.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0031par0091	Yeah, yeah, it's been postponed.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0032par0092	In fact, it's been postponed twice.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0033par0093	The application of the Law issued in 2005 is in 2012. In 2012, this 2015 was transferred to 2018 for municipal buses. This should be on the record.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0034par0094	Not at all, you're wrong, it's not true.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0035par0095	Yeah, it's on the record.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0033par0096	And no one has the right to deceive the disabled.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0035par0097	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0036par0098	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit03spe0035par0099	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, and I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, there are sufficient decisions, the National Movement Party Group proposal has not been accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 23/03/2015 on Monday (Today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. M. Akif Hamzacebi İstanbul MP and CHP MP M. Akif Hamzacebi has suggested that the Assembly Research Front (1758 rank #), which was given to the chairman of the Turkish Parliament on 23/03/2015 to determine the problems stemming from the election system and the Law on Political Parties in the parliamentary general elections in Turkey, should be read in the same date and held in a joint session of its talks on Monday (23/3/2015) in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP... Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party in favour of identifying issues related to the election dam and its proposal for research on issues related to the system. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. We have an election ahead of us on June 7th. This Parliament will go on vacation two weeks later, friends, but the outcome of the nation's will is that we've offered many times, we've proposed the law, we've submitted research proposals, so that it can freely use its votes, identify its candidates. Now we ask again: Is it moral, legal, human, democratic, and just representation to defend this system brought to the nation by the coup d'état of September 12th? I don't think a single parliamentary speaker in the National Assembly will say yes to that, but it's been 35 years since the September 12 coup, and it's still a process of decomposition, benefiting from this system, taking over the parliamentary majority with a few votes and stealing the votes by a few votes. Now I'm asking you: when you received 34.3 percent of the vote, when you came to the House, you came here with 66 percent of the parliament's representatives. Why? With the election dam. Why? You're not here on the people's will, you're here on election fraud. The 10% threshold is not only a dam that blocks the system, blocks democracy, leads to fascism, leads to dictatorship, leads to oppression, but is the biggest obstacle to the development of Turkey's politics. We call upon you as a party that has offered the House the law to remove these dams altogether. Why are you so uncomfortable with people's will, free play, going to the polls? Or isn't it against the will of the nation to sit in the ranks of these Parliaments with so few votes he doesn't deserve? When we ask about this, unfortunately, the AK PARTY government, the three-term asylum of the AK PARTY, the right-winger, nationalist, conservative coalitions before it all took refuge in this 10% threshold. This dam, my friends, is a disgrace to us if it hasn't been removed in our time; it's because democracy, election, crate, public, citizen's vote is not believed to be freely used. Now, I'm asking you, for God's sake, why is he getting three parties, even though we've represented the treasury aid as a group since 2007? Do you not feel ashamed, ashamed, or ashamed, that even the law of Canaan's Universe is receiving financial aid, and that you share 1.5 billion liras among yourselves? I mean, people's money...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0038par0027	Mr. Kaplan, please speak in a clean language. Please...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0028	Have you not heard of the people who have no sense of stealing the people's will?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0039par0029	What's a good attitude got to do with a clean language?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0030	Mr. President, you can't teach me what language to speak. Look, like this...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0040par0031	Yes, sir, I'm required by the Civil Code. Speak in a clean language, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0039par0032	There's no clear language to being inattentive. What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0033	It's not moral to take refuge in a 10% threshold. I'm asking you, don't you hear anything about taking refuge in the 10% threshold?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0040par0034	Return to the General Assembly, please, and address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0035	If you're saying you haven't, Mr. President. Is there anyone here who doesn't hear anything?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0040par0037	Look at the transcripts, I repeat, speak in a clean language, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0038	Those who seek refuge in 10 dams per cent, and say, "I do not feel any harm." If it's not a clean language, don't steal votes. Stealing votes with a 10% threshold isn't moral, it's not democratic, it's not in accordance with the will of the nation. When we say, "Don't you feel any harm?" your party Vice President invites me to speak in a clean language. I invite you to clean politics. I invite you to respect the will of the people. I invite you not to put a dam in front of people in the trunk. I invite you not to stand in the way of the people's will, but to remove obstacles. What's not clear about that? Theft's clean? Is the robbery clean? Is the vote theft clean, fellas? Look, our party group has been in Parliament since 2007. Even in the days of the couptarian Kenan Universe, party groups received treasury assistance. So when $1 billion 300 million buys three parties, that's your justice, that's your equality? I'm asking you: are you not having any trouble with this? Can't you hear anything? Don't our constituents pay that money as a citizen, not as a tax on the treasure? If so, why can't the HDP Group take that citizen's money into the treasury? I ask you, are you not ashamed of this? Mr. President, what pure language are you looking for in this?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0041par0040	Call the General Assembly! Leave it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0041	Which is the pure language... how do you warn me? Please take this back.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0042par0042	Mr. Kaplan, the 67th article of the Civil Code is very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0043	Mr. President, all those who seek refuge in the 10% threshold need to speak in clean language.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0042par0044	You can see what words you're talking about. I have to warn you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0037par0045	Stealing votes, hearing satire, that's shame, that's an ar, that's a ball...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0043par0046	There's nothing clean about hearing nothing. What's the clean language got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0042par0047	No, no, it's not about the satire.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0043par0048	Embarrassing, satire, that's not a dirty language. What interference is being made from this bench!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0044par0049	It means shame, it means morality, it means honesty, it means being human. I'm inviting you to this. What's wrong with that? I invite you to lift your 10% threshold. Be ashamed of it. I say, hear. I say, hear. I'm making a moral call. What's better than that, guys? Why do you cling so tightly to the beating, choice, and dam of the Kenan Universe? I mean, who would be able to defend all these antidemocratic, non-European dams in the world? It's a shame! Shame, shame! Don't make fun of people's will. We're not out of the trunk, you're not out of the chest, you're out of chaos, you're out of tension, you're out of election tricks, you're out of the election system. Without a 10% threshold in the election, I swear to God, these parties would have changed the entire color of this House on June 7th. If it weren't for that dam, there'd be other parties sitting in this Parliament on the morning of June 8th. Look, you're all waiting until June 7th to check the trend; 29/9 of the CHP has a number of pre-elections in the provinces, and MHP is doing the same trend-checking, and our party is working on candidates. We invite you now, since it is possible to replace it with a temporary clause of the Constitution, support the proposal for research. If it doesn't work, I'm calling for a moral call, let's remove the public dams, lower the election dam with a temporary constitutional clause, and go to the election. Let's go to the election so the public can vote for the party they want, the opinion they want, the candidate they want. This is what will suit Turkey. These coup laws, the election system, are something to be desired. It is the politest word with the People's Democratic Party to demand that the Hicap be heard. We call it stealing, stealing! Don't steal the citizen's game, brother; don't steal it, don't steal it, that's enough! Make this choice properly. Let the people be elected freely, elected as their own candidate, as their own. Why would you put in a 10% threshold and force yourself into this House with five million votes and force this House into three parties, two parties, four parties? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hear no of it, hear no of it! Mr. President's warning. I'm inviting you, inviting you to hear the satire. Do what you have to do, have a little conscience, and things will get better. Can't use a cleaner language than that, fellas. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0045par0054	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked against the group's proposal, Yusef Başer, Yozgat MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0057	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal to address the problems of the 10 per cent electoral dam and the Law on Political Parties. I hereby salute your high council. The general parliamentary elections in our country are held, as in the developed democratic countries, on the basis of unilateral, proportional representation, in general, equal, secret and under judicial supervision and supervision. It is clear that the votes will be tied to the census and reports, that the poll boards will hold a choice with representatives of the five political parties that received the most votes and were held there in the previous election. Again, all of the reports made in these elections are being submitted to all political parties who have entered the election in a form, along with the regulation of the EC PARTY authorities. In the same way, all the jobs and transactions that the Supreme Election Board has done are being done publicly, and the election results are being given in the same way by giving the IP tip to all political parties' headquarters. Again, representatives of our political parties are in the district election boards, especially in polling boards, in the municipal election boards and in the Supreme Election Board, participating in their talks. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the implementation of election dams is implemented in many Western countries, and this rate is changing from country to country. The coup of September 12th to ensure the stability of justice and governance in representing the 10 per cent election dam in our country, despite the fact that the coup d'etat was a product of 12 September coup, and even though all political parties criticised, our dear friends, the founding President, and the Prime Minister at that time called on all political parties -- in the framework of the democraticisation package of our current President on 30 September 2013. Dear friends, we've told all political parties that one, the current 10% dam system can continue. However, dear friends, within the 10 percent dam system, the EC PARTY was established in 2001. And from the moment it was set up, we had a common opinion that this system was wrong, that it was incomplete, and that we needed to make legal arrangements for this in order to establish a sense of pluralism in attendance, and we even wrote it into party programs. Dear friends, when we came to power in 2002, we came to power with this present system, and we did all our best to change it. Second, we said, "Dear friends, let's reduce the election dam to 5 percent and bring the narrowed-down regional selection system with the grouping of fives. " Third of all, we said: "Yes, let's raise the dam completely. Let's bring in the narrow district selection system." Dear friends, as an EC PARTY, we have reviewed all suggestions, advice, and criticism, and we have also endeavored to resolve this problem. Unfortunately, we didn't get enough response from our sincere proposals by opposition parties.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0047par0065	You'll get it in a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0066	Despite all of this, we, the EC PARTI, endeavored to make some of the issues that we had promised in the package of democratisation in order not to be deceived and fundamental philosophy of our politics, in the Law of Political Parties, in the Election Law -- necessary regulations. Dear friends, about this, for example, one of the arrangements that we've made, you know, in the existing Political Party Law, there were 7 percent dams to get help from political parties from the treasury -- with the arrangement we made in 2014 -- we've drawn it up to 3 percent. Again, in the same way, political parties had to be organized in the districts; we removed this too. Again, in the same way, we pave the way for co-Chairship in political parties. As long as it's in the party regulations...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0048par0069	What did you do with the dam? Say it, explain it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0070	...as it has happened in developed Western countries, we've made the general president the co-president of it. Again, in the same way, we have removed some obstacles in political parties that narrow down and restrict membership. Again, in the same way, we have removed obstacles to any political propaganda done by the political parties and our candidates in other languages other than Turkish. Dear friends, the election system in Turkey has always been a subject of debate, especially since the September 12th intervention, but the three-way offer, unfortunately, has not been supported by opposition political parties.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0049par0074	You should have taken it all away. I mean, why are you up for parole? Let's just put it away; it's not too late, let's do it today.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0075	I hope and wish and wish that after the elections in 2015, I hope our Parliament will make the necessary arrangements for this matter. These arrangements we've made...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0049par0076	Let's do it today, today!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0077	Dear friends, there's no way we can implement the arrangements we're going to make in June, a year before the elections...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0049par0078	Why? We'll change the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0079	I mean, if only we could all get together in accordance with our demands, which the founder of the EC PARTY, and the president of our president at the time, had done in the framework of the democratic package of our president...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0049par0080	It's possible, it's possible! It is possible to change the Constitution!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0081	...and we could make these arrangements, but we couldn't.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0049par0082	Let's do it today, let's change the Constitution and bring the article.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0046par0083	With these feelings and thoughts, my dear friends say I am against the group proposal given by CHP, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0050par0085	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0051par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0050par0087	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0051par0088	Sir, I'd like to make a statement, sir, to say that the opposition parties did not participate in the proposals they had previously made regarding the electoral system, and that they did not support it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0050par0089	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0052par0090	Mr. President, for the same reason, we would like a word.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0050par0091	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0053par0095	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers; correct, Mr. President Erdogan made a proposal to the opposition parties on 30 September 2013, regarding the election system, saying that it was a three-way proposal: one: let's continue with today's system, so let's continue with the 10 per cent election dam. Two: Let's go to the narrowed-down electoral area, where there are at least five MPs. That means I'm going to lose 10 percent of the election dam by giving up the number of MPs in a narrowed election district. I mean, it's not really a suggestion. And the third one is an election model consisting of 550 members of the narrow district. It's a threesome... but it doesn't say anything, Mr. Erdogan doesn't mean to lift the 10% election dam. Even when making suggestions, it says: One: let's continue with the existing system. What does the opposition say, the Republican People's Party? This 10 per cent election dam is an obstacle to democracy, a barrier to the representation of the nation's will in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, so let's take it down. We can reduce it to 7 percent, we can reduce it to 5 percent, we can reduce it to 3 percent, or we can talk about it if there's a different rate you're offering. If you ignore all of this and put it in front of the opposition as a suggestion to continue with the 10% election dam, you have no intention of actually removing the 10% election dam. If that were the case, yes, we're removing the 10% election dam, and you'd have the courage to take your step. You can't throw it away, because the second you do, you're gonna be upset. But it doesn't matter, even if we go with the 10% election dam on June 7th, that 13 years of power will be over. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0050par0098	Thank you. Again, Mr. Baluken, for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0054par0101	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing a very important issue here for the country's democracy, but in fact, none of us understand what the ruling party means here. You can clearly show here that you support the 10% election dam, that you are not sheltering behind this dam, that you are openly speaking in front of 78 million. You don't have to tell us about this proposal, the vote in the election was used like this, the count was done like this. We're not kids, and you're not in a teaching position here. You know better than we do that all three of your previous proposals are being prepared on election simulations by the AK PARTY strategists. You're saying that the other proposals are tough, when you're already saying that the 10 percent threshold in those three proposals should be the same. The narrow region system, the narrowed regional system is debatable, there are certain countries in Europe, but there's no such solid-center structure, there's no management of all the geography of 78 million from Ankara, there's a different management system, there's an administrative system model. If you bring these administrative system models, other suggestions can be discussed, of course, but in the present situation, what you have to do is eliminate this 10% damism as soon as possible. In Europe and no country in the world, there is no such level of election threshold. Even if you're not taking this dam down completely, I'm saying what arguments you've had about how much it's going down to, we expect you to come down here and express it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0055par0105	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0056par0109	Mr. President, thank you. This dam thing has been coming since September 12th. During that time, there were different ruling forces in Turkey, while the EC PARTY was not in constant power. Different political trends are also represented in Parliament today -- they have been in power, they have also made constitutional changes, but so far, in the 35 years since this 1980 -- twelve years of this belong to the AK PARTY, thirteen years belong to the EC PARTI -- there has been no action. So I don't think it's appropriate for me to bring this up and take some kind of populist approach on the agenda today in the event of this kind of war. Well, why isn't it happening? One of the main reasons why it's not -- it's actually a common problem for all of us -- is that political reconciliation culture in Turkey is weak. Opposition has its share, and power has its share. I hope a general approach to political consensus also plays a role in Turkey's politics in dealing with such chronic problems. Also, I'd like to point out that everyone here talks about the people and the people behind it when it's their place. No policy with the public behind it is afraid of the 10% threshold, overcoming the dams. I hope, on June 7th, they come over the dams, whoever's coming, challenge! Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0057par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0058par0114	Mr. President, in his statement, Mr. President, he's made a clear accusation again.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0056par0115	What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0057par0116	No, he didn't give me a name, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0058par0117	Using the expression "Mugalata"
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0057par0118	In general...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0058par0119	What's a mugalade?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0057par0120	I get it. He didn't mention the name of your party, he didn't mention the name of any party.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0058par0121	No, that's how he accused the speakers of speaking from the stand. We didn't do that. In a democracy this important, it's a shame.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0057par0123	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Here you go. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0058par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group Vice President's apology is worse than his fault. If so, you'll have an opinion about the election dam, and you'll make it very clear here. Don't think you'll change that agenda by picking on opposition parties like this. We know your intentions clearly. You're thinking of unfairly stealing a congressman from behind the election dam brought by the coupgers. We're clearly expressing it. If so, you'll have an opposing opinion coming from here. We know exactly what you've been doing during the election. Congressman just told us how to vote here, how to count, but we know very well how electricity was cut in almost all parts of the country at the same time during the election, how naughty cats were suddenly able to withstand transformers, how unsealed bags were flying in the courthouse corridors, how unsigned, unsealed minutes came out in the YSK offices. Oh, that's not enough, we're scared." You say, "We need this election dam. We're going to do it." he says. We respect that, but walking around like that isn't a moral stance, it's not an ethical stance. However, this problem does not concern only the four political parties here, there are over 20 political parties in Turkey, most of which are not represented in parliament because of this dam. This is how you condemn the right of these political parties to be represented in parliament. So, if you're really concerned about justice in the representation, the bride looks at the one-hour shift, and we say that if three other political parties in parliament support it, we can eliminate the shame in an hour. Mr. Group, I'd like to say that I don't recommend those statements to the Vice President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0059par0132	Mr. President, the previous...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0060par0133	Mr. President, for the same reason, sir, I would like a word.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0061par0134	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0060par0137	Yeah, because of the teasing. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, you've got 10 percent of the election dam behind you and you're saying, "Come on, let's go!" That's not the challenge, that's not the challenge. The challenge is by removing the 10% election dam.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0062par0141	Can you tell me why you didn't pick it up?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0060par0142	I'm telling you, let's go! Are you in? Let's lower the election dam, reduce it to 7 percent, reduce it to 5, reduce it to 3, reduce it to whatever you want. That's the courage, that's the challenge, but you've taken refuge in the 10 percent election dam, and you say, "Come on, let's go!" The Republican People's Party doesn't have a dam problem. I guess I don't have to tell you that.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0063par0143	If only there was a dam problem!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0060par0144	We want this for democracy. We are a party that aims for power, but if this Parliament is to be democratic, then the dam must be reduced to a reasonable proportion if all colors and ideas of the nation are to be represented from here. I can't say that it should be removed because the Constitution has a fundamental principle: justice in parliament, stability in governance. We can determine a ratio that balances the two in Turkey's Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0064par0145	The European Court of Human Rights also has a ruling.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0060par0146	You keep bringing in constitutional amendments. Now, you've given me another one. Come on, we've got a lot of offers on the 10% election dam, so let's make it legal. Let's add a temporary clause to the Constitution, and in less than a year, the change in the 10 per cent election dam will be implemented in these elections. Come on, let's go. Are you in? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0149	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0066par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0151	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0066par0152	I was the one who spoke for our group.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0153	No, sir, Mr. Baluken has spoken. If you wish to speak according to Article 60 of the Civil Code, take your seat...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0066par0154	Mr. Group, they're mugalatating what the Vice President used. Because of the incident, my speech...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0155	Sir, I'll ask for the reports, and if there's anything on your person, I promise.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0066par0156	Mr. President, as I speak...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0157	Mr. Kaplan, we have to do it our way. If you wish to speak according to Article 60 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0066par0158	According to the research motion...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0159	Just hear me out, please. I'll give you my word, but if you want word from the bullying, I've made a promise from your Group Vice President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0067par0161	He used Ottoman, sir. What's a mugalade?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0065par0162	I'm going to have the transcripts brought in now. If there's any bullying about your person, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0068par0163	Mr. President, I was on the stand as a preacher. Mr. Group Vice President has spoken for the group. I said... as a preacher... the hacks are doing their thing.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0069par0164	There's a taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0070par0165	I never said that.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0071par0166	I'll have the transcripts brought in, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0072par0167	What report, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0071par0168	I'm saying I'll give you anything you say.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0072par0169	Mr. Vice President, can you tell me who you've used that concept to?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0073par0170	Not you, Mr. Hasip. There's public debate.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0074par0171	He's got it back...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0072par0172	That's how you got it back, isn't it?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0073par0173	I didn't say anything, so I'll take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0074par0174	So, who did you tell?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0073par0175	I didn't tell you. I'm telling you, God!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0075par0176	You say laga luga, you say mugalata, what else do you have to say? But Mr. President doesn't invite you to speak in a clean language when you say luga.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0076par0177	Mr. Bostanci has done his thing. He made it himself.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0077par0178	It's a dead end.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0075par0179	Let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0078par0183	The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0186	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing a very important issue for Turkey's politics. Because the will of the citizen must reflect on the Great National Assembly of Turkey, Parliament and the future of the country. It's our job to fix it if there's any discrepancies in this area. The 10% election dam is an obstacle that cannot be defended in any other country in Europe, and everyone in Turkey's politics and politics knows that it is not possible to defend it. However, the AKP Group Deputy President says: "In Turkey, the culture of reconciliation is incomplete." So we can't fix it. Look, our Deputy Director of the Group made a call, and he said, "We have the culture of reconciliation. We still have to fix the constitution's one-year barrier with a constitutional amendment. There, the bride, here, the CHP's proposals, we have dozens of proposals to attract to 5 percent, we have legal proposals. Let's draw a year's sentence to a month and press the button today and eliminate Turkey's disgrace, shall we? If the lack is in the culture of political reconciliation, there is no lack of that culture of compromise in the opposition. In that case, the culture of reconciliation that you're talking about has only identified this assessment. My dear friends, a speaker on behalf of the AKP Group now said: "There is this dam in the European countries." Yes, in European countries, there is, he is telling the truth, or he is telling the truth. For example, in the Netherlands, 1 percent...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0080par0191	Russia?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0192	I'll tell you about Russia, don't worry, don't hurry. I'll say it all right, don't worry. I'm saying 2%: Israel, Denmark and the Philippines, 2 percent. I'm saying three percent: Albania, Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece and Montenegro. Four percent: Austria, Bulgaria, Italy, Norway, San Marino, Sweden, Slovenia. All right, let's count five per cent of the group: Belgium, Croatia, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Georgia, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Ukraine. Five percent of all of them. Now, your question is, you're on the phone: there's a dam in Russia. Even in Russia, it's 7 percent. Well, tell me now. Are there 10 percent dams in Europe or in any country that runs a blind lame democracy? We see it's not, and you're just sitting here. After that, the opposition MP, that's a shame, something to be ashamed of. When you say it, it's a proper language. Of course, we're going to use proper language here, but isn't it a shame, my friends, to have a political understanding that resists the humiliation of this country, democracy, and then tries to link it to a lack of consensus culture? I mean, is there a political or incompatible way of doing politics through someone else's votes, through other people's MPs? Look, I'll make it concrete. Let me tell you about 2002, when they come over the dams, I'll tell you what dams you've crossed. There were 41.5 million voters in 2002, the AKP's vote was 10 million and 808. So you didn't get 30 million, 599,000 voters.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0081par0201	How much of the vote did he vote for? Tell me how much of the election went to the trunk!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0082par0202	Why don't you count the vote?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0203	Don't get angry. The anger doesn't suit you. I'll tell you right now. Anger doesn't suit you, and I'll tell you right now. Gee, guys, anger is not a good thing. Look, I never multiply numbers, I never divide them; don't confuse me with you. I'm very clear on the numbers. Once again, you've been voted by 10,88,000 people, 30 million,599,000 people. Well...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0083par0205	How many votes did you get?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0206	I'm gonna say it, man. Let me answer what you asked me first. Let me answer what you asked first.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0083par0207	How many votes did you get, how many votes?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0084par0208	Mr. Baser, Mr. Başer...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0209	32 million voters voted, and you didn't get 21 million,960,000 voters. There you go, that's the answer.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0085par0210	How many did you take? How many votes did you get?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0211	So, what do we stand for? We're talking about the dam, the dam.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0085par0212	Tell me how many votes you got!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0213	We're talking about a dam. You know what? The 34 percent you're getting...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0085par0214	How many votes, how many votes? How many votes did you get?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0215	Your vote is 34 percent of the voter, but you're 66% represented by a chair in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and you can still -- I really don't want to say it, but you can defend this dam here without feeling a little bit bored.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0085par0216	You're the ones who should be bored! How many votes did you get?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0217	Isn't there such a thing as shame? What does the citizen say? It is the product of the coup d'état of September 12. Who doesn't know it was the coup d'état of September 12th? Yes, this is the product of the September 12 coup, and you are the continuator of the September 12 coup.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0086par0219	Everyone speaks their own name!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0220	Because you're the only one, you know what I mean? You're the product of September 12th, and you're doing your best to continue September 12th today. You have no right to talk about one thing.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0087par0221	We're talking about trial! Tell me how many votes you got!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0222	You can talk about dictatorship, you can talk about authoritarianism, but you can't talk about democracy.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0088par0223	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0224	Because you are the one-on-one defender of the practices of the Kenan Universe, and you are not bored with it at all. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, let me continue.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0089par0227	You don't believe what he says either.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0228	What if you didn't learn math, is it my fault, brother, and if you didn't learn math, is it my fault?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0089par0229	How many votes did you get?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0230	So, don't be shy, or is it my fault? I'm being so clear!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0089par0231	How many votes did you get, how many votes?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0090par0232	Mr. Albany...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0233	It's a little embarrassing!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0091par0234	Don't be shy, you don't have it. You're twisting the words.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0090par0235	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0236	Now, my dear friends, my dear friends, Recep Tayyip Erdogan says...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0092par0238	It's a dark area, it's a zero dam. Let me know right now.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0239	Yeah, not necessarily. Let me tell you about him right now, you're being rude, and I'll tell you about him. Let's raise the 10 percent election dam, make it 5%, but let's go back to the narrowed area in groups of five, or we'll make it a narrow area, but isn't there anyone smarter than you?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0093par0241	Yeah, well, be the Turkey party first, you didn't get a nomination in 11 counties.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0242	Does anyone not know that all of this is a vote account for the theft of the MP? No one knows.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0093par0243	You're a local party, local...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0244	But one hears a little bit of satire and says, "Well, at least I won't defend it, because it's in the council's records, so my name won't be seen." But when it doesn't, of course, you try to defend everything. Now let's move on from here. Just last week, a minister who was given a watch to his son in Europe resigned immediately from the ministry, the minister who was given a watch to his son immediately resigned from the ministry last week. What happened in Turkey? Those wearing 700,000 lira watches were cleared by your votes, and you said: "There is no need to judge, we go to the chest, to the chest." I say, "The theft is not laundered in the chest, my brother. That's one. Second: Here is the report card in front of you, which we can barely keep 50 percent of. The people who said, "We've put up a mortgage on the future of this country with 34 percent."
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0094par0247	For God's sake! Tell him 2011.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0248	So say here, let's face it: We love the Kenan Universe, we love dictators, we don't say anything to you or say: I've been in power for thirteen years. I can change the law with 276 MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0094par0249	That's definitely from math. I'm sure he's out of math.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0250	I've changed the Constitution, I've given women more credit. I did all this, but I didn't change one thing. Why? What haven't I changed? I didn't give up pocketing 70-80 MPs with someone else's vote, and I'm not giving up. I don't have that kind of democracy. Say, "No one will say anything to you." That's the actual situation. Friends, you see that the AKP has no defense.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0095par0252	You're having a serious problem with math, my friend.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0253	In that case, I would like to say once again that the 24th Legislature of Turkey continues in the Grand National Assembly. As of April 5th, this House will be closed. 70 percent of those who left this Parliament on April 5th will not return to this Parliament. Maybe I won't either, maybe there won't be a pack of you. At least don't go through these reports because I've defended such an unfair, irregular antidemocratic practice with the full clarity of my heart, and at least learn to remain silent.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0096par0254	What's it to you?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0255	A little bit says: "Ya, I've never been able to sit on 70 MPs, by the vote of another." Say, "History may forgive you."
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0097par0256	Oh, dear!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0079par0257	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0259	Sir, Mr. Orator, you need to hear what I'm using twice. He used the phrase, but you...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0260	Mr. Kaplan, I'm not asking you to hear the word "history," I'm asking you for the papers, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0100par0261	That's different.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0262	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0263	No, sir, I asked for the transcripts, I'll explain it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0264	No, sir, don't you hear me speaking? You invited me to speak in a clean language because I said so, didn't you?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0265	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0266	Mr. Orator said you should hear it the same way. So you have a prejudice against me. I want your word on your attitude, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0267	No, about the procedure...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0268	No, your attitude...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0269	I'll tell you why I warned you, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0270	No, sir, you just warned me.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0271	I did. I did. I didn't warn him, I told him, I explained.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0098par0272	You've said it twice,
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0273	I've asked for the transcripts, and they're coming in.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0101par0274	Mr. President, we're waiting on the minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0275	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0102par0276	We're already waiting...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0101par0277	I mean, Mr. Hanib didn't spend anything out of the clear language in there, but what did you do that warning for? We're waiting for that report.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0278	I've asked for the transcripts, and they're coming in. I'll explain.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0102par0279	Here's the report, sir. It's already here.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0099par0280	Yes, Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0103par0282	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I just want to say that we're not the product of September 12th or any other product, we're the nation itself, we're the fruit of the nation, and praise be to God, we're not the product of the intermediary. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Mr. President, there are no election laws in the world that can please political actors in the system, make them happy. Whatever election legislation, the ruling party, if opposition parties from political actors are satisfied, if the ruling party is satisfied, the opposition party is not satisfied. The selection system that will please all actors has not yet been invented, and if it is invented, you know that the AK PARTY will invent it, the AK PARTY will implement it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0104par0286	We're not looking for the pleaser, we're looking for the democratic one.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0103par0287	The EC PARTY entered the elections on November 3, 2002; the EC PARTY never played on election legislation, never even thought to play, but the electoral system entered with it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0104par0288	What's the Metropolitan Law? Don't twist the material truth so much!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0103par0289	While I was doing political work at that time as the President of the AK PARTY, the local actors of that time told us that you would not be able to cross the threshold in the election. But they forgot one thing, they forgot the power of the holy nation.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0104par0290	You've even changed election circles, even election circles!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0103par0291	Mr. President, what are the high-profile lawmakers expected from election laws? On the one hand, the society's trends are reflected in the legislature, while the majority to rule the country is allowed to be formed. There are two features that determine the selection systems for these functions: first, justice in representation; second, stability in governance, which is good. These two criteria reflect voter tendencies in a fair way to the legislature, while the principle of stability in governance helps to establish stable governments. In fact, the 69th article of our Constitution states that the laws of choice are held in harmony with the principles of justice and stability in representation. On the other hand, the total level of votes that are not represented in parliament is also an example of justice. As a matter of fact -- I accept that -- about 45 per cent of the House was not represented in the 2002 election, and I mean it in terms of the vote. The AK PARTY also took advantage of it, and the Republican People's Party also took advantage of it. However, when we came to the 2011 elections, it dropped to 5 per cent. As a result, when applied to the political arena, the same system puts justice in representation ahead of one, while the other, as a result of the votes, brought stability in management. There's no factor, no element to it, but the votes of the citizens have affected that. As a result, after 1946, I want to give you an example of the elections that were implemented after the multi-party political life: Nispi represented, the list-style DίHondt system, the DίHondt system, the country's dam DίHondt system. All of these outcomes have been implemented, and the debate has continued at a point where justice has been achieved in the representation. First of all, I'd like to say that in the 1995 and 1999 elections, justice has been brought forward, but political stability has not been achieved. In the previous group's proposal, it was given on this subject... a serious study by our Lord Hakan Sergeant. According to his research, all governments in Turkey have a life span of about a year and a half -- for the duration, when we hit average -- in all elections. This means that the governments in Turkey are around a minimum of a year and a half. So there was no stability here. But it is not right to undermine justice in the representation because such stability does not exist. There will be justice in representation and stability in politics. I think democracy is a front for the systems where the two of them meet in common. We're short on time, and I say I'm against the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0296	Thank you. III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0106par0299	We demand roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0300	I'll meet the roll call. I will submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes. I will grant you a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Morning, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Elector, Mr. Clean, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Tureli, Mr. Küreli, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Belen and Mr. Korkmaz. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Kaplan: Don't you feel ashamed and ashamed to share 1.5 billion liras among yourselves when groups are receiving treasure assistance even in the coup law of Kenan Universe? I mean, people's money, by the way, Mr. Kaplan, please speak in a clean language. No, no, it's not about the satire. Don't you ever blush when you're sharing what you used earlier?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0107par0311	Didn't you share, Mr. President? You didn't share?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0312	Mr. Kaplan, I'm gonna need you to...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0107par0313	Didn't you share the treasury help?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0314	...to the power party's group.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0107par0315	Didn't you share the treasury assistance, Mr. President? I want your word on your attitude. What kind of a thing is that? Didn't you share the treasury help?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0316	Sir, the 67th article of the Civil Code is very clear.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0107par0317	The Civil Code is very clear. You can't just run things like this, Mr. President! I'm asking you, didn't you split the treasure fund as three parties, brother? Didn't you split the 1.5 billion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0108par0318	What does that have to do with the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0319	Treasury assistance is a right that the Constitution, the law recognizes, parties share, divide, right. During the negotiations...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0321	Okay, so you're going to deny the demands we made to be fair when we split this up, and you're going to...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0322	Yes, the 67th article: the President immediately, in a clean language, continues to speak to anyone who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly. I'll invite him, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0323	Mr. President, you can't claim that none of the words I use here are clean, that inviting me to hear the satire is not a clean language.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0324	Mr. Kaplan, you can judge the party's financial aid.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0325	Yes, Mr. President, again, I'll come out and say it again on this stand.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0326	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0327	You can't talk like that. Look, just now, our other friend from CHP...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0328	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0329	Mr. President, where do you get the right to scold the opposition MP from this bench?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0330	No, not scolding, sir. I've read you the 67th Amendment of the Civil Code, sir. The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0331	Mr. President, you have no right to scold me like this.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0332	You can raise your voice as much as you want, so it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0333	He has the right to warn you of...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0105par0334	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0335	You can't do that. I want a word about your attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0110par0336	Mr. Hasip, wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0337	I'd like a word on your management and attitude, and I'd like to start a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0338	The 67th article is open, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0339	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0340	There's no reason for a formal debate. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0109par0342	I open it, I demand it, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0112par0343	You can't scold Hasip Kaplan, Mr. President. I'm telling you, you can't scold Hasip.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0344	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0113par0345	Now, from what you've just read, it's clear that no statement from the stand was used to invite the speaker to the clean language.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0346	I read it, sir. It's here.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0113par0347	You've read it. Don't you blush? Or don't you feel ashamed? It doesn't mean any insult in Turkish. Our friend has voiced criticism from the bench of the insensitiveness of a current injustice. So, it's like you've got a biased attitude about our congressman, and you've come up with a way of inviting him to a clean language, even though he didn't use it because of your biased attitude. Because of your attitude, we need to open a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0348	There's no preconceived opinion of me, sir, for any member of parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0113par0349	But then there's nothing to invite in a clean language.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0350	For the words he used in the future...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0351	Take back your word, Mr. President, and if you don't take it back, I'll open up a legal debate. I'm starting a formal debate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0352	Do you hear anything? You can't say it because of the word "Hicap." When I said it, I said it because I didn't say it because of the word "hearing."
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0353	Mr. President, either you get it back or I'm starting a procedural debate.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0354	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0115par0355	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0356	Mr. President... Mr. President, 63 is open.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0357	I'm having the Justice and Development Party group proposal read first...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0358	Mr. President... Mr. President, I'm starting a formal discussion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0359	Please, Mr. Kaplan, take your seat.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0360	Mr. President, I'm making a request under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0361	There's no obligation to open it in the Civil Code, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0114par0362	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0111par0363	Please sit down, Mr. Kaplan. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 23/3/2015 meeting on Monday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the 705-trial proposal, which has been distributed, the agenda will be "The Law Charter and Other Affairs From Commissions" in order of six, and the drafting of law proposals 673, 679, 704 and 687 rows and drafts in order of 8, 9, 10 and 11. 1 1/50 (11/51), 11/54 (11/54), (11/49) and (11/53) main geneorary proposals for the meeting of the "Special Agenda" on Tuesday (March 24th 2015) in order to complete the talks on the "Special Affairs" on Tuesday's agenda; 1, 2, 3, 4/50 (11/51), and "Conspiration of the proposals for this particular agenda" and "Conspirationssents on other matters" in this particular agenda, and "Proposals on other matters being carried out" on the part of the Commission, which are in place of this particular agenda. The Law Proposal of 705 rows shall be considered the basic law according to Article 91, and its divisions shall be in the following form; It's recommended. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0116par0378	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge to express my opinion in favor of the group's proposal, and I hereby salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, our group proposal recommends that a number of proposals and proposals take the lead in the agenda. In this framework, it is recommended that some provisions of the 705 rows be changed by the Law Proposal and begin their talks today. In this state-of-the-art law proposal, as it is known, 47,000 teachers' staffs, hopefully, will be violated. Again, some of the arrangements for resolving the victims stemming from the payment of student contributions have been made in this proposal. Birth allowance, dowry savings account, state contribution to them; again, housing account and state contribution; arrangements for the benefit of public transportation for our citizens over sixty-five years of age; on the other hand, arrangements for the resolving of some of the problems we have passed earlier due to the law on the restructuring of municipal debt. The proposal will be discussed as the basic law; 31 articles and 2 chapters are recommended. Dear friends, again, on the other hand, it is recommended that we discuss five questions about our ministers by tomorrow's agenda. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0117par0386	Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who has asked for a word against the proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0118par0388	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. So I made a promise against the AKP group proposal. The agenda of the Parliamentary General Assembly, as you know, is often changed according to the AKP Group's pleasure. The goal, of course, is to catch opposition parties unprepared, and in this particular way to the chest, to bond the election by bringing up other issues rather than the real needs of the nation. Dear friends, whether we accept it or not, sir, our hearts and our tongues may not allow it, but our circumstances are a clear economic crisis. The dollar is in the 2.60s; last week, as you know, it has seen 2.65, and is expected to rise even higher. Due to false economic policies and meaningless Erdogan pressures on the Central Bank, Turkish lira has lost more than 20 per cent in the last two months against dollars. So, there's a 20% increase in goods and services. In July, the Fed will increase interest, and that's when the real storm will begin. Experts, in particular, signal attention to the business world, especially to businessmen who are in debt with foreign currency. The year 2006, the AKP was able to manipulate the numbers to raise national income in one night for $10,000 per million; the year 2015 is still $10,000. It was either the numbers or now. According to the 2014 TÜİK figures, the national income per unit is $10,971. With the rise in dollars, in March 2015 -- pay attention, friends -- national income per unit went down to $8,763. There's a $2,200 drop. Our people have become poor $2,200 in the last two months. Turkish lira is losing value. Economics says: "If the prices of exports are cheap, there will be more. " Developments say otherwise, our exports have dropped 14 per cent in February, at a record level. The Russian economy is a mess. Russia does not see tourists from Turkey. The Russians were the biggest customers in hotels. Without them, it paralyzes tourism, which means thousands of people employed in the tourism industry are out of work this summer. Dear friends, another problem: our expenses are in dollars and our revenues are in euros. If the parite falls below 1.... which seems to be....... our revenues will be even less than our expenses and the current deficit will grow more and more. There's a terrible stockpile of dollars in the private sector. The rising currency means that thousands of businesses are bankrupt and the manufacturers importing interim goods are no longer able to produce. We are an unwanted country in the Middle East, North Africa, with the AKP government taking over as BOP Co-Chair. Turkey cannot find a port in its foreign trade to dock its ships in the Middle East. Iraq and Syrian governments don't have guns to hit Turkey, we're in a cold war, so the Middle East market is hopeless. This will also hit the export of fruits and vegetables in the coming days. The fact that the EU countries, which have the largest share in our exports, have already ignored Turkey, the modern, democratic Islam country and its model, has serious democracy and legal problems for Turkey. The EU is for the dark Turkey. Russia, the Ukrainian market is a mess. When Ruble lost a record rate, Turkish firms who worked on these markets became unable to see the way because most of the deals were out of rubles. Turkish firms want to leave the Russian market with no trouble or minimal damage, many of them can't even afford it. In the 2008 crisis, the economy was shrinking by 4 per cent, while the construction sector was reduced by 20 per cent, selling housing outside large cities stopped. The contractor was walking in debt, the builder, as I just said, he was already doing it on loan, but now he can't sell it. Construction firms undermining high interest are going bankrupt. The public's six billion in bank debt has gone up to 357 billion. Sinked consumer loans are 127 times higher and credit card debt is 24 times higher. Turkey's debt has been tripled since it was founded in the AKP period in 13 years. Our people, at the end of the Erdogan years, have become twice the bread and three times the gas. The minimum wage's purchase power has dropped from seven quarters to five quarters below. Again, because of sales to foreigners during the Erdogan period, the company's profits to other countries have reached 170 billion dollars, sold goods to Turkish nationals, profited from them, and bought them and transferred them abroad as they were. The public's debt of execution is over 22 billion years old, four-to-five executive offices are established in each province, each of which continues to plant fig trees in the nation's furnace. The population inflation rate is over 20 per cent. Public revenues are down, no savings, no savings, no investments, no investments, no new jobs. State official figures, record of the last five years in unemployment, 10.9%. If you look at young unemployment, it's 20%, educated, educated, college-graduated unemployment, 30 percent. One out of three college graduates is unemployed. Let's each look around and do it. Aren't there at least one or more unemployed people in every house? Low oil prices don't save the situation, because the exchange rate went up dry, and that's where the advantage went from there. And when oil revenues fall, the rich states and sheiks of the Middle East are returning their money to their country with low interest pressure in Turkey, and you have to give up hope of the hot money you trust so much. Your economic policies, which have sold and did not produce, have failed to pay off the debt. The smart AKP economy, where you're messing with people's eyes with hocus-pocus, has hit a wall. We don't call it the AKP spell that darkens the nation's future, but your appointment pens and columnists say it's ruined. For the years of the AKP, AKP executives have become each other's enemies. Erdogan and the government had a duel of words. He's going away. You did it. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. Pot's black, pot's blacker than his. No one's thinking about people. Let alone this boatman's quarrel, including Erdogan and Government and Arinc, is equally, equally responsible for this course of action. The plague, which you call a solution, has begun to grow the seeds of persecution that you sow. First, the PKK was your partner at the negotiating table, and now, it forces the country to rule. Erdogan's monitoring committee is wrong. Dolmabahçe talks have not been good. He makes such statements. What about Mr. Erdogan? Didn't we tell you if you gave up the fight against terrorist organizations, you'd have to negotiate first, then it'd go to an agreement. One step at a time. Minister of Interior Ala, Deputy Prime Minister Akdoğan whose roses, which mountain are the nightingales of? Mr. Erdogan, members of the monitoring committee, isn't it within the minds of 63? This nation is preparing a slap on June 7th as the AKP votes fall and the MHP votes rise. They see that and they think they're playing good cop-bad cop. I don't buy it! Do not mock at the people's minds. The day of reckoning is coming. Dear lawmakers, the years of the AKP have been years since the nation's confidence in the state of the nation was dynamited. Even the most trusted institutions of this nation have been perperged by your daily political ambitions; our armed forces are, our courts are. You've made it an institution that's never been discussed and has not been trusted with the consequences, even with everyone's approval. Did you think it was forgotten? Some questions were published online during the session at KPSS in 2012, some irregularities were found in the 2012 TUS exam, and in the 2011 pamphlet at the YGS, the questions were encrypted, the 2010 teachers' appointment exams were canceled. Shall we count more? You have the plague of thousands of students, thousands of families. There's an operation today on test corruption, but aren't you the executives that you've appointed to do this illegality and the politicians responsible for it, and you're not going to answer for this irregularity? Is that fair? To whom shall be asked the account of the lost years of youth, of their hopes, and of their families? That's why we say that on June 7th, the election is the day of the account on June 8th, which will be asked by the National Movement Party. That's why we say walk with us against the thief, the corrupter, the boxmaker, the butcher, the villa owner, the treasurer, the tyrant, the traitor, Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit04spe0119par0407	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0119par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party has asked for the support of the group's proposal for Osman Love Bak, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0120par0005	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the proposal given by our AK PARTY Group. I salute your high council. In our proposal, we're organizing our Parliament's work this week. We move forward with the talks of Law 705 rows 673, 679, 704 and 687 rows. We're going to move up the discussion of five of the credited genes, which will be discussed tomorrow, Tuesday. Then, in Bill 705 rows, especially with our new teachers and 47 thousand staff members, it's important. Other than that, some regulations are being brought for our elderly citizens in transportation, for our citizens over 65 years of age, and many of the issues that concern our people will be discussed at the Law Proposal of 705 rows. We're on a tight schedule. After that, there's a bag of laws, and we'll continue our work. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0121par0010	Thank you. It's Haydar Akar who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0014	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment on the AKP group proposal. I spoke about the AKP group proposal last week, and I said the same thing. Every Monday or Tuesday, when Parliament normally opens... and because we're close to the finals these days and we're at the end of the 24th term, we're going to close the term day by day -- we think so -- up to five, but every Monday -- the AKP comes to the House with a proposal for a study, because we put the markets on the work agenda, and it brings the legislation back to us by changing the place of the law. So why is he doing this? Because I told him last week, he's doing it because he can't plan it. Notice that they've done this for four years, and in the end, group managers or fellow lawmakers come here, saying there are more important substances, leaving without explaining why they did it, without using time on the stand. Actually, there's a lot to tell, and you can actually use this time very well, but you don't prefer it. The last two articles of the bag law we interviewed last week, the last 63 articles of the internal security law we discussed before that were transferred to the commission, there's no word from them, no telling where they're going now. And today, a new bag of law was brought here, and that, if I'm not mistaken, consists of 32 articles. Of course, this law consists of 32 articles, but the AKP representatives who come up here say to appoint 47, 000 teachers, and they're trying to establish perception because they have a great perception management. With this perception management, they offer to Turkey and speak as if they have succeeded in failing, failing, or failing to solve problems. True, this bag contains 1 article in which 47,000 teachers are appointed as teachers, but Turkey needs 110,000 teachers -- according to the National Ministry of Education, the Minister of Education himself explains -- again, according to European standards, there are 210,000 teachers short, according to the European Union criteria. And yet what does the AKP bring here? He's bringing 47 thousand teachers. What did I do with him? With the appointment of 110,000 teachers, I have proposed a law on the statement that the Ministry of National Education has indeed identified -- although it was not included -- that 110,000 teachers should be appointed. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, my vice president, also proposed the law, stating that 150,000 teachers should be appointed, and this bag was combined in the law. So the truth is that over 100,000 teachers were appointed, but you don't do that. Is this the only one, you do it in all the trade groups? Look, the Department of Food, Agriculture and Petting has a tremendous shortage of agricultural engineers and veterinarians. These kids need to be appointed. Again, the appointment of food engineers must be made. In particular, the graduates of economic and administrative sciences -- which is the most crowded group -- these friends of ours, these kids, these young people, they need to be appointed immediately, but you're always ignoring them, you're just creating a sense of it through the teacher. You can't do that either. I'm telling you, you're talking about perception management. When you say perception management, you've only fooled Turkey for 12 years -- you've entered the 13th year. These days -- I wonder -- why don't you ever talk about the big economy? You've been nagging us for 12 years, smothering the citizen.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0123par0020	There was just a statement yesterday, number 16.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0021	The 17th largest economy, the 17th largest economy... you claimed to be the 10th. What's the run now, what's the run?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0123par0022	16.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0023	The 19th largest economy now. There is no greater economy in the 16th place when the GDP is falling.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0123par0024	No, 16, read yesterday's news.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0025	It is now the 19th largest economy. I wonder why you never talk about it. You can't talk. You've been talking about growth speeds, you've been talking about Turkey's growth, and I'm telling you, you're talking about a perception operation.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0123par0027	That's $900 billion out of 250 billion. How did that happen?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0028	From 1950 to 2002, Turkey grew 5.1 during the AKP era. During the AKP, 4.8 grew up in twelve years and thirteen years. And that wasn't enough, especially this year, in the last quarter of 2014, we've come to around 1.75, and we've come to a three percent growth that's very important... that we can go with the average of 7 percent of people, 8 percent of people, so that we can reduce unemployment in Turkey. Is this the only one where you're managing perceptions? No. You're saying it's an external debt. We lent Turkey's foreign debt to the IMF, $5 billion to the IMF, we paid off the IMF. You said "IMF" and went to all the cities, with your mayors in 81 districts, with your deputies drinking buttermilk and cheering the nation. The citizen also thought Turkey's external debt was over because there is a perception in Turkey that only debt to the IMF is thought of as being called Turkey's debt. In fact, when the IMF lent Turkey loans at lower interest than its financial institutions -- we're partners because of IMF -- but what did you do? The debt to IMF has ended. You have deceived the citizen, but you do not tell the citizen that Turkey owes $123.7 billion and that its $40 billion is in debt during your administrations. You are the most indebted government in history. So the AKP governments in 12 years, in 13 years, with a $40 billion debt, which is not just $40 billion. You ransacked all the gains of the Republic era, passed them on to your followers as a Rant element. You made 53-54 billion dollars of the $62 billion privatisation in Turkey during your administrations. Well, I'm speaking to you now from here, and I'm speaking to the citizens, as you're telling us, you don't have a gravel in this country. In the 13 years of AKP, you sold our nails off, and you took our nails out and put 52 billion dollars in your pocket. What did you do with 52 billion dollars? On June 7th, the Republican People's Party comes to power.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0124par0031	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0032	When the Republican People's Party comes to power on June 7th... we are against privatisations.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0124par0033	You don't even believe it yourself. The president is willing to settle for 35 percent!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0034	Can you tell me one thing about your work? Can you tell us one piece we can sell when we come to power?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0124par0035	What does your president say, what does your target say?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0036	What did you do? You made a road, didn't you? You're doing a Gulf pass, aren't you? Citizen's gonna go through that Gulf crossing with $35.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0125par0037	Haydar, don't!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0038	The next day, the Japanese engineer committed suicide because the bridge had been severed two days ago. You've robbed Turkey, but to keep the government alive, you've tried all kinds of unlawfulities, all kinds of illegalities, and your perception management to keep the government running its course. Just an external debt? When I paid the last $600 million - look, the treasure. Gov. Enter the tr-you have borrowed an external loan, and with this foreign debt from the financial institutions, you have paid this $600m, the last installment of the IMF, and you continue to receive it today. Okay, let's look at inflation. You boasted for years that inflation was over, that we had finished inflation. That's right, you're done. Inflation was over in the world, and you don't know it. Do you look at inflation in Argentina, Brazil, to the countries you compete with? Did you look at inflation at that time, in those high, three-digit figures, in the two-digit figures, in the world's inflation? So, where are they now? To those developing countries...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0126par0041	Do you believe what he says?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0042	Have you ever read a book in your life?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0126par0043	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0044	Have you ever read an economics report in your life? Now I'm telling you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0126par0046	Yeah, I don't read the books you read!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0127par0047	Are you the only one who reads it?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0048	I can tell he didn't read it. See, inflation in Malaysia from developing countries is 3.1. How much is South Korea? I'm asking, how much inflation is South Korea? You don't know. You've only got one job to raise your hand, one job to do. Malaysia, South Korea, 3.1; Mexico, 4 percent. These are the developing countries, the countries we're competing with, friends. We are always called Turkey, the developing country, the inflation of all the countries we're competing for is beneath us. Let's look at the Eurozone. The inflation of the Eurozone is 0.4, my friends. I'm not talking about America, it's not our thing.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0128par0050	What's the national income?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0051	The national income was $2,000... you just didn't listen, you don't get a chance to sit outside.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0128par0052	You're not telling me what to rest.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0053	Learn it, learn it, learn it, I'm not saying anything else or I'm saying ikra, ikra, ikra, ikra, maybe you'll understand because you've come here and done nothing but have a religious conversation in this House. We're dealing with a government that opposes the opposition. With the money of the escaped palace, many things could be solved in this country.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0129par0055	It's okay. It's okay.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0056	You're right. And your job, Ahmet New -- I'm teasing -- is just to talk.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0129par0057	It's over, it's over. My time's up.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0058	Yeah, I'm out of time, but we're gonna use that time again in a little while.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0129par0059	No, my time is up. Haydar, my time is up.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0122par0060	Yes, let's simply say that during the 12 years of AKP, tell us one problem you've solved. You've solved unemployment? You solved the pensioner's problem? You solved the student problem? You're done with inflation? Did you finish the foreign debt? Did you finish the cari deficit? Say one thing, one thing. All you do is say you owe Turkey money, and I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0130par0062	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0131par0064	Mr. President, I'd like to have the testimony taken from the 2nd line of the group proposal to the 6th row of the other operations that have come... to the 5th place of the other operations that have come. It's written as Sehven. I demand that it be voted this way.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0130par0065	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0132par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Haydar Akar expressed a sentence in the form "We are opposed to privatisations." I think what he means there is not all privatisations, but specific privatisations. The Republican People's Party is a party that adopts policy privatisation, but of course, adopting privatisation does not mean privatisation of all public enterprises. Without privatisation, the goal is to reduce prices by providing effective and efficient use of public resources and competition in the market of the privatised business, and thus start a process in the interests of consumers. This is the Republican People's Party's privatisation policy. I've been promised to file a report on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0133par0070	Yes, thank you. With Mr. Bostanci corrected, I will submit the Justice and Development Party proposal to your votes. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 5th ranked Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and banan MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law Against Making Changes in Law and Law Orders; the Law Against Making Changes in Some Law and Laws; and the Law Against the National Education Ministry's Order on Organizations and Orders; Mehmet Akif, Minister of the Law on Law; the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Law on Law; and the Charter of Law on Laws and Services of Public Institutions and Services; and the Committee of Laws on Making Changes in Some Laws. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 705 rows.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0096	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Now, you've just made a statement that the bill number 705 that we're going to discuss has been moved to the top of our agenda, if I'm not mistaken.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0133par0098	It's not mine, sir. It's Mr. Bostanci's. The members of the group made a deal, and I voted with him, along with that correction.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0099	Now, I think there's something missing, Mr. President. Bag number 684 in the 5th place was not taken from the Parliament's agenda. Since some of the articles of this bag are withdrawn from the agenda, the bill is already taking the place of the Parliament's agenda at the 5th. So I think this sequence is wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0135par0100	He is slipping to six.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0133par0101	The bill has been returned to the Commission, sir. Right?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0102	The bill has not been returned to the Commission, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0135par0103	It's moved to the 6th row.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0104	No, sir, the bill was not returned to the Commission.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0136par0105	There's no problem, he's telling the truth, he's in the 6th row.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0106	It can't be moved because there's a bill on the agenda that we're talking about. This maintains its place in the 5th place, and according to the proposal, the new bill, which we will discuss, takes place in the 6th place of the bill, number 705.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0137par0107	He takes his place in the 5th place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0108	He takes his place in the 6th place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0137par0109	He takes his place in the 5th place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0110	Sir, no. You didn't take a single shot, you pulled some of his stuff.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0137par0111	There's no need to film, it's not about that. By the decision of the General Assembly, he was ranked number five. Others are new to him...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0112	No, sir, for example, you keep mentioning the bill on the Civil Code here in the 1st place, but since some of the materials have been discussed and withdrawn, it's in that way, it's keeping its place in the next place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0113	Mr. Zozani, the next job in six is half work, right, but with the vote just now...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0114	It's supposed to be the 6th row, Mr. President. So, what number did you put this in, the 684?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0116	I get it, but the next job is half. With Mr. Bostanci correcting just now, we've already voted together on what he agreed with the group's vice presidents to correct, and the General Assembly has agreed.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0117	Mr. President, it doesn't matter if the groups participate in this. Our remaining operations in the 5th and 6th row...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0118	I understand, but the General Assembly has decided, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0119	Now, isn't the procedure for the Civil Code unfinished, Mr. President? It's a loose end, but it holds its place in the first row. The 5th and 6th acts also retain their place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0120	Mr. Zozani, this isn't the first time we've done this. There have been new plans and transactions in front of unfinished business before.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0121	Look, Mr. President, I don't want to object to you about this.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0122	I understand, but it's not the first time, Mr. Zozani, I want to tell you about it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0123	Look, you're looking for commissions and government until the 5th act, it's not in place. The next procedure... you say, you do it to the fifth place on the first row, to the fifth. You have to do the same thing for 5 and 6 and therefore, this has to be processed as the next seven.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0124	No irregularities, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0134par0126	There's irregularity, and you insist.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0138par0127	Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the proposal have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP who has asked on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group all over the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0139par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to call it line 705, or we're going to call it a bill or a proposal, or we're going to talk about an offer that's not clear what we're going to say. So I'm making these determinations: look, we're talking about a procedure referred to our Commission as a three-point government bill. What was in this three-point government bill? 47,000 teachers were predicting a procedure for the employment of the staff. But we couldn't discuss it in the Commission as a government bill because 5 lawmakers brought in a bag of law proposals, adding the text in the government's bill to their own bill of law. We've come this far before we know if we're going to talk about a bag or a proposal or a bill or what we're going to talk about during the commission. There's definitely some kind of irregularity here. The government's bill has been executed. The government has made a public commitment in its bill to the violation of 47,000 teachers' staff. But that statement... they made a correction in the government's draft text, and because they couldn't get lawmakers to sign a bill, as if they were essentially doing 47,000 staff tenders. There -- let me be clear -- there's been an affair going on with the teachers waiting for the staff. How did it happen? If you'll listen, I'll share it with you. Now, as of this hour, by the time we discuss this bag of law here, everyone thinks 47,000 teachers have been neglected and 47 thousand teachers will be appointed by April. This is what the public expects, especially for teachers who have not been appointed. However, the arrangement here contains a deception. Clearly, the government has deceived the teachers who are waiting for a position, who are waiting for an appointment, by the manipulation of the proposal and draft text here. Let me put it this way. Now, the government bill clearly states that 47,000 teachers have been committed. By the end of 2015, it was transformed into an arrangement that would be appointed during the period of December. What does that involve? For one thing, the number of teachers you're going to appoint isn't 47 thousand, it's 35,000. I mean, the number of teachers who will be appointed now is 35 thousand, not 47 thousand. What about the rest of the 12,000 staff members? There's a big illusion there too, a big trick, to be honest. We discussed a bag of classrooms here last year. There's a legal arrangement in that bag that says 60,000 school teachers are going to be interviewed. According to the regulation of that bag of legislation, the teachers who are working in the classrooms and who have completed six years will be appointed to the teachers' staff, to the staff of teachers. From there, it seems that 48 thousand teachers were deceived. Because they're going to use the 12,000 additional positions. So, as of late March this year, 60,000 school teachers waiting for the appointment were left out in the open. Now, didn't you promise these teachers last year when you were doing this arrangement here? How quickly did you forget that? The Minister of National Education has arrived and stated in the Plan and Budget Commission: "We will not leave our teachers exposed. You said that we will not leave teachers who have worked there for six years, eight years, or even fifteen years. We will give them a staff. It's a promise, a legal arrangement beyond words. But you're resorting to a trick here. By cheating, you'll leave 48,000 teachers out in the open. Whoever's here to speak on behalf of the government or on behalf of the ruling party group, I'd like to be clear on this matter. The way you're making this law, or rather, your irregularity, has turned into a freak. You're trying to meet this bag of bills and proposals in front of the two bills you've now left unfinished, while it should be the 7th place on our agenda. There's gotta be a catch under here. You left two bags open, you met without ending it, especially in bag bill 688 rows. When we talked about this in the Plan and Budget Commission, government officials, lawmakers from the ruling party group -- some of them are sitting here -- they said, "Let's discuss this bill, let's take it down like this, there won't be any more of it. Why didn't you discuss the application clauses of this 688? Let's be clear, the reason you're not meeting is because of the new materials that you're going to add here, and you're going to do the materials. You're preparing, you'll bring it here and try to talk us through it. Now, I think it's no wonder that he's resorting to such irregularities in his law enforcement methods, such as the one who cheats the teacher, who breaks his promise to the worker, who doesn't keep his promise to the worker, who doesn't keep his promise to the worker. Dear friends, at the core of this law, the four articles that are hidden inside the bill that we are now to discuss have been withdrawn from the four elements that are essentially the essence of your soul during the commission's work. One of them, again, was about the transfer of the powers of the YSK to the RTÜK, with a clause that was inadvertent to the Constitution. The opposition has served as a warning during the commission's work, and you've had to get it out of here. But since the Constitution is an open violation of Article 61 of Article 61, and it is understood that this law cannot be implemented in the next election, you have to withdraw it. The other three items that were drawn back were very interesting, and that was the privilege of contractors. What privileges were given to contractors? Now, the contract has two months' notice, and there's a notice in the law that he's going to hand over his house in thirty-two months. These included an app that would give summer months as extra time to contractors to use summer months in favour of contractors. They added six more months to make it happen in 42 months. The opposition has also made sure that these are removed. However, there are still some very dangerous substances here. There's some stuff about TRT, things that can't be explained. The tender agreement between TRT and Anadolu Agency has been excluded from the tender Act. They couldn't make it clear, but here's what happened: TRT's gonna open up a new channel. The existing channels are inadequate to describe the actions of power, unable to promote power, so a new channel will be opened, and the issue of program and news access to this channel is envisioned to be tendered directly through the Anadolu Agency, and there is such a veiled substance in it. My dear friends, Turkey's, or rather, our endless agenda is at stake. You'll probably try again this week or next week; you've withdrawn the internal security law in 684 rows, you've withdrawn some of the clauses, and it maintains the location of our agenda during the 5th. Now you've moved a line, but in the coming days, you're going to try to re-interview, you're going to want it brought back to the agenda. In this domestic security law, we will continue to make the opposition we've made to this day. Because we know that, for example, not by Article 4 of this domestic security law, but by now bringing the murders of the police beyond the jurisdiction of the criminal authority, you have excluded all the murders that police officers, soldiers, special movement teams have committed on the streets, in social events. There's a cover-up of afflicted material that's sitting right here. On the basis of the 7th Article of the Penal Code, the Polish regulations of the Law go back. You have brought pardons to policemen, soldiers, and all the special movement teams that have murdered children in the streets until now. You've forgiven the cop who killed Ethem Sarisulik, who now wishes that the law would be passed as soon as possible. And ye bring forgiveness unto the officers, and unto the guards, and unto the officers, and unto the officers, who slew Uður, and Enez, and unto the children of Enez, and in the streets. So we object at the time, and now we object. But that's not enough. Look, you're referring to the state of emergency, and today the President is describing the actions of his government. In the 2nd month when we came to power, we eliminated the extraordinary practice of state. Well, as a name, you've eliminated the extraordinary state of mind. And are you aware that you're compiling other laws, as are the provisions of Code 430 and 285? You're aware of it, but you're hiding it from the public. The State of Emergency of Code 430 regulates the powers of the district governorate. In the same way, the State of Emergency of the Law of 285 is a decree in accordance with the violation of the district governorship. For example, you remember Article 53 of this bag bill, which authorises censorship and exile. Section 684 envisions a change in Article 53, Article 53, Article 53, Article 2830, which you are withdrawing a portion of the bill -- in which the Parliament is meeting -- a amendment in Article 17 (17). You know what that means? Article 3 (a) of Article 3 of Article 3 (a) of Article 3 of the Code of Law No. 430. You took that joke as it was, you put it here. You've taken the authority of the governor of the state of emergency regarding censorship and exile, you've put him under the authority of the governors of 81 provinces. Who do you think you're kidding, or who do you think you're kidding? Let me continue: The fourth article of this bill -- the clause I just expressed -- is, again, among the provisions of the 430 SEC. And it says here that state officials can't be tried for their crimes. You took all of these items, one by one, and somehow you put them in this bill. So we said to you, "This is a state of emergency arrangement. We named it, this is a state of emergency arrangement." Any authority in these two KHKs has not failed. For example, the arrangement for the gendarme is part of the regulations of the KHK. Look, I'm reading to you the 6th Article of KHK 430: The Council of Ministers is authorized to resolve conflicts due to the use of authority and duties and to make any administrative arrangements concerning the implementation of the Constitutional Law, except for the judicial and administrative legislation of the State of Emergency, which you have brought here, says here. You even gave the governor the authority of the Ministry. During the state of emergency, the governor, the governor, the governor, the state of emergency, the governor of the district, has not used the powers, the powers that the governor can't use now are given to the governors. That's it? Is that all there is to the resemblance? Look, you have an arrangement in Article 9 of this bill regarding compensation for damages. You took him, too, Mr. Naci, and you took him out of the jurisdiction of the state of emergency governors and put him here. Where did you put the materials related to censorship and exile? You put it in the TİB arrangement, you hid it. There's a State Special Administration Act that's been issued before, before, during your administrations. I suggest you look at Article 7 of the Civil Administration Act. Again, in this article, the state of emergency was taken and placed here without a decree on the violation of the district governor's office. Now, let's not object to these antidemocratic practices, but who will? And now you bring them here and say, "These are very democratic practices. Well, if this is democracy, this is democracy, which Saddam was also used by Mubarak, this is democracy, which Bezar Assad is used because there is no difference, there is no difference, there is no difference, there is no difference. You're trying to design everything according to self-preservation. These won't protect you, I assure you, these arrangements won't protect you. You won't stay in power forever, but those are the arrangements in our power that we'll never want to use against you, and our first job is to throw it all away. We will not desire to use these legal regulations against anyone, these antidemocratic legal regulations, but we will continue to oppose them. Look, it's been brought into this proposal, help, family aid, birth aid, etcetera, and... let me be clear, one of them, an arrangement, for example, is a very scalping arrangement. Wherever in the world, if a Turk comes into the world, if his father is Turkish or his mother is Turkish, that's enough for you, you'll send help. This is a legal arrangement for an American citizen who gives birth in America. It's a skull arrangement. We have no objection to aiding the citizens of our own country, the citizens of our own country, who are registered in the records of our own country. In fact, we say, "Let's make it undisputed." But no matter where in the world, a Turkish woman or a Turkish father with a child will be able to ask for help from the government of the Republic of Turkey, according to this legal arrangement, which is a cranial arrangement. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0140par0150	Mehmet Günal is an Antalya MP who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0141par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm afraid we're facing another bag of law, which is probably going to go into literature as a choice bag. Here's another one of those classic bags from before the election. Constantly, the Parliament has broken the process of making this law and has made it a bad tradition, with the law proposals that we now offer to the government. We need to identify it first. Yeah, what happens when that happens? The draft regulations are on the shelf. So according to the government's regulation of drafting, which he established in his day, there are laws, regulations, rules that must be followed, and they are not followed. Because, in the Plan and Budget Commission, when we talk about it, we're constantly going through the same thing, we're asking, what is the financial burden of this law? Have you done an impact analysis? Our friends are trying to respond, unfortunately, they're not going through the filter. Such complex arrangements, which should come as a bill, are not discussed in subcommittee, nor are they passed through the filter of relevant institutions. And so there are regulations that can't even express their meaning -- in fact -- that are beyond our objection to the fundamental process, that can't even express the law that he wants to make himself. These regulations, which are broken in Turkish, against the technique of the law, are unfortunately brought up in haste, from the owner, from the need, from the law, and every time there are new materials here, you know, 30 coming up to 60, going up to 130, then 60 coming up to 120, up to 130, there are laws that go up to 250. So, that kind of technique, that can't happen. Therefore, this law, which we call the Torba law, which has come to this form of law, has, unfortunately, been considered unnecessaryly fundamental law, and, unfortunately, it has also been, in context, wrong. Of course, like every time, there are still some helas mixed up with the harams. Madam Secretary, there are good materials here that concern your Ministry, care for our teachers, need to be released. We said to the ruling party, "Let's get it out of here. But that doesn't happen unless you mix the forbiddens in it. I mean, some of the bans were taken at our insistence, but some of them remained inside. What's going through the process of law... the Prime Minister's Office of Laws and Decisions doesn't do a job anymore because everything is an offer. The government is preparing, the ministers are preparing, or they say we'll bring it to the commission anyway, in violation of the Civil Code 35. He's got a commission in his head, whether he's got it in him or not. Against 87, here it comes, added. So, I'm afraid the Civil Code decrees are being brought underfoot, and such laws come here. We said, "Look, come, you have a bill on teachers -- the bill of law -- let's get this over with, without meeting at all, below -- even, we wanted to increase it a little bit, because of budget opportunities, and it didn't go up last time. And then we said, in the proposal, we said, you know, there's some stuff about college students, about tuition, so let's take it right away, make it a package, and don't tire us out with the others. There are people who aren't urgent. Now, just on the eve of this election, let's put together whatever we can get out. The logic is wrong. But, of course, if you don't do it this way, and you don't mix it in the can, then the people won't buy it by themselves, I'm afraid. On our insistence, our friends had materials related to construction, contractors, they took them out. Many debated, including public opinion, the SEC, which we discussed earlier about the election process, had a transfer of powers to the RTÜK, thanks to our insistence, and they also withdrew them as a result of our insistence. We have to deliver the truth. So we say the forbiddens, we say the forbiddens that are separated from the lawful, but we have to tell them what's left. They removed these substances, but when we looked at the rest of them, which, in fact, would be a disaster, because, just as we took the authority of the prosecutor, the judge, with the internal security package, and gave it to the governor here, we would give the authority of the YSK to the RTÜK, and they shot this. We're a little tired, but it's been taken, so we thank you for that. But, now, when we look at the rest, there are some very important substances here, unfortunately, that remain in you. When we bring in the law like this, it's impossible to get out like this. One of them is a tax exception for the purchases of services from the Anadolu Agency, which is clearly being issued. Of course, it comes in such an innocent way that some services will be taken, so let's take it from the state-run Anadolu Agency. Dear friends, we've argued here over and over and over and over the corruption of the outside productions of the TRT, the irregularities of the Anadolu Agency's administration. Now, with something like this in the open, we have a lot of questions when you say, let TRT take it directly. See, that's where we get the problem that what I just said doesn't come as a bill. No comment from the relevant institutions. Mr. Deputy General, we asked him what was really going on, because when he told us, we understood. There are already exceptions in 3 (g) of the relevant arrangement, and they can receive -7 million 726 thousand liras - directly in supply. Well, well, now, how can we take more than 7 million things from the TRT Anadolu Agency and not understand them? We looked at international agencies' annual subscriptions, we looked at international agencies' services, and unfortunately none of them satisfied us. Again, on the other side, there's something about the service, which we can't take advantage of." he says. So, as a summary, let us take it our way. We understood later, but after long questions, we learned from the information given by our friend the Treasury official that the Anadolu Agency had only $28 million in income last year, 111 million in normal costs, that the result was 105 million in damage. Now, if we're going to transfer money here, we call it a common treasure. We didn't understand what it was like to take money from people's electricity bills, cut out of their TRT shares, and then give it to the Anadolu Agency on election eve. The total annual income is 28 million. Now, you've already got a chance to get $7,700,000 service at a single party without bidding. We ask, we add, we multiply, we divide, we don't get that number. Oh, when you transfer funds here, because it belongs to the treasure, you don't just transfer capital, you reduce the damage by handing out funds. What else? On the other hand, just on the eve of the election, we've discussed over and over again how much money you've transferred to supporters with many producers, producers, producers, director, on the eve of the election, and now I don't want to get into it. But with a criminal record like this, we don't think it's right to give money to the Anadolu Agency when they can't give it to them, and then, on election eve, we don't think it's right to transfer money through service to subcontractors. Oh, if that's not the case, if they're just going to shut down the damage-quality thing, it's simple: the Anadolu Agency has been converted into an anonymous company, it has a corporate personality legally, and its partner is Treasury; the Treasury will pay off the money, the Treasury will pay off the capital increase, it'll cover the damage. On the eve of the election, we took this and put it there, and took money from the TRT. We find it not right to do so. We don't think it's right for opposition parties to use the news of the National Movement Party in this way, especially with money being collected from us, from our bills to TRT. Unfortunately, this substance came in this way. TRT is supposed to be neutral according to the Constitution, but unfortunately it's not. So this stuff needs to be removed. On the other hand, there's something else very important in this material. Dear friends, there are operations that have been carried out in the past, after the December 17th-25th period, on the charge of a parallel state. Of course, if there are criminals, they'll be tried within the state of law, within the law, in the form of legitimacy, they'll be punished. But there is a law here, dear friends, that suggests a change in Article 107 of the Capital Market Law. In the (2)th joke of this article, a number of transactions in this (1)th joke -- related to fraud in the business market market fraud -- have linked certain verbs based on the prices, value, and information that may affect the decision of investors. This arrangement envisions two to five years in prison, and five to five days in criminal fines, to influence the prices, values, or decisions of the capital market vehicles, or investors, to provide false, false or misleading information, to spread rumors, to report, or comment or report. Now, with this arrangement, the change that has been brought in, those who have given himself or anyone else direct or indirect benefit... have been added to the description of Bank Asia as well. Look, I'll tell you again: there was no original offer, but the motion from the Commission... was taken out... as well. Now, that sounds weird. Why? We've argued here many times, what did the President say? This bank is sunk. He said, "This bank is run down." He said, "Why don't you confiscate it?" He provoked it. All of these constitute crimes according to the Capital Market Law and according to the Banking Law. Now, what are you doing? I've just read this rumor over and over again: you're saving Mr. Erdoğan. Two, you're saving the newspaper that's been spreading it. Why would you say that? That bank wasn't impounded. They just gave us some incomplete information -- which is unclear -- about the board, about the founders, about the partners. Now, does that mean the bank is sunk? Even BDDK was able to find this and find nothing else. So, what's going to happen now, the loss of credit for that bank, the declines in that bank's stocks? If anyone commits a crime, you find him, you find the man, and then you don't create a crime. Now, what else comes with this arrangement? Let me give you a very simple example: let this arrangement go on like this. In that case, as you all know, our sports clubs are anonymous and public, and I gave this sample to the Commission. If there was a rumor about the Fenerbahçe Sports Club, the Aziz Yildım and Coach Ismail Kart had a fight, 10 players resigned with them. The story doesn't really have linings, someone wrote it, and a sports newspaper published it. Suddenly, the shares of Fenerbahçe Asş fell in half. It's open to the public, it's about Article 107 of the SEC Act. So, what's it gonna be, who's in charge? You can't judge the owner of that newspaper, you can't judge the editor-in-chief. Why? E, brother, I've heard such news, I've spread it. I don't have a direct interest, I don't have a Fenerbahçe share. What are you going to charge him with when he says he doesn't have any money in the stock market? You can't judge by this clause because you're even removing the indirect. Okay, you may want to protect Mr. Erdogan, you may want to protect the press, but it's about the public companies... or the other way around, there are companies competing in many sectors, there's no direct benefit. You made a deal with a publishing agency, you wanted to screw him up, you gossiped about him. When I went to court, I heard such news, so I wrote it. What's the maximum? You take a stand, you file a court order against this story, you apologize. Crimes in the Press Law are separate, but the definition of piyasa fraud is different, friends. Now, when we do this, you make all these crimes unquestionable. Tomorrow, we can start a competition in an economic competition. Anyone can make a lot of rumors about the firm they want. It's very simple. You know, what are they doing somewhere? What happens when they find a sample or something, and they say something came out of the food box, and they write it in the newspaper? You can tell if it's got an original lining or not. So, if we do this, we'll open the way for the destruction of public companies, the deliberately bankrupting of them. When we're trying to sink a bank that you can see, or let's clear those who want to ruin it, those who want to ruin it, clear those who publish it, on the other hand, we're bringing in an arrangement that could lead to the collapse of all public companies, the growth of the profit-harm account, the growth of its losses, and the excessive destruction of the company's shareholders. I mean, there's no way that could have happened. Plus, by the way, there are other arrangements brought in as innocent. And there's something that our friends tell us like nothing ever happened. He shows up when you ask him. That's what we're getting. Even the ministers don't know much because there's no government bill. Naturally, they're coming, sentry ministers, and unfortunately, they don't know. Now we're saying there's something here. Our friends add definitions to the Insurance Act. We're saying, where did this come from? It's called "inclusion insurance." Okay, there's participation banking, we get it, there's something about it, but how right is it to put something here in an election bag that changes the insurance system by defining the inside of a one-matter thing? We have the Banking Law waiting in the Plan and Budget Commission -- I'm waiting as subcommittee -- not discussed. Now, what's the rush with all this? What did you do, where did this come from? In some countries... our friends say. When they're compressed, they say: "There are investors in Malaysia and in the Gulf countries, their demand." So we understand him. There's another item right behind him. For the first time, there was a definition of the executive company. I'm asking, I'm saying, guys, I haven't seen that definition, so I've been a congressman for two semesters, but before that, I'm both a Central Banker and a bank teacher, and I know a little bit about insurance. We passed the law here, we got the specifics. So we said, what's this? Here, sir, say, like this. Is there an example in the world? Our friends said, "There's Lloyd. There's Insurance." It was their request anyway. Since we can't write this clearly -- and they've even started to say so clearly -- some countries, sir, are taking it out for Lloyds -- because we can't write in the name of the law. It turns out that he's the one behind Lloyds Insurance, an international company. All right, let's bring them in, but deliver to the address, order in, all right, fellas? This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our friends are bringing in an offer of law, and they're bringing them in. When the others brought him in, when they said this brought him in, unfortunately, that's what we're dealing with. It's so wrong. So, yeah, let's do that, but since our own friends are going to be doing that, they asked some of the members of the Plan and Budget Commission's ruling party if there's going to be no problem here in the sector, on our question. Why? More than 70 per cent of the insurance industry is in the hands of foreign companies. And on top of that, when you put it all in his monopoly, the industry becomes completely alien. Where's your nationalism? Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Davutoglu have been trying to get out of nationalism lately.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0142par0171	Underfoot!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0141par0172	How did this happen now? 70% of them are already gone. Let's do what the Malaysians want, let's do what the British want. What will this Turkish nation want? If you don't bring Turkish insurance companies together and try to get them out of the way, and you bring in the law proposal that someone wants, and you bring it in on election eve, we have to say it's illegal. It's not the right arrangement. That is because you mix the unlawful with the lawful. Look, there was a much more dangerous arrangement in it about the Executive Judicial Law. As for our friends, we've corrected that mistake. If it had happened that way, he would have had the right to retrial on decisions that would have come out today, which were, in fact, unregistered, unappealed. It's over, it's in favor of the citizen, so what? In June 2014, we forgot about the transit warrants. But when we specifically put it on that date, we narrowed it down. So when the laws come in this way, I'm saying the lack of them is wrong. One, if he doesn't pass the PM's office. Two: if he doesn't pass the residency commission, if something about the law doesn't go to the Justice Commission... how do we know that? When we ask friends, we learn, and when we look at it, we can fix it. Thus, making such a bag of laws violates the Civil Code, as well as the other regulations of draftment. I'm saying this should be a separate bill of law. We have support for the good stuff, but in particular, I'm telling you, we're going to give you our motions to get it out, so I'd like to thank you now. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0143par0178	Yes, thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement from Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0144par0182	Mr. President, my dear friends, my esteemed deputies, I salute all of you, but I don't think we're over 30 of our 550 lawmakers. Dear friends, last week we discussed Bag 688 rows of Law Proposal, and you know we haven't finished yet. Last week, while we were discussing 688, we were facing a new bag of legislation in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we made preparations for it, and we are meeting here in the middle of the last week as the Law Proposal number 705. It's a little weird to have these kind of law proposals right before the election. They're supposed to come in case it's urgent, if it's very necessary, but there's only one of them that's very urgent, very necessary, and there's no substance except for two of them. Why does he come so quickly, why is it that both the Plan and Budget Commission are busy here, and there's no way to figure it out. Besides, we all know our Prime Minister is against the law, our Deputy Prime Minister, our Speaker is against it, and we all know that they promised he'd never come back, but unfortunately, even if this kind of bill doesn't come, offers can come, but they're wrong. And when this bag came up with the offer, I remember it was 36 articles -- and there were 25 or 26 different laws in it, about different laws. Fortunately, we were able to get some of them out because they were very outlandish, very election-oriented, because they were so ridiculous, and today, with 30 articles, you're in the presence of the law. Unfortunately, we're carrying out a very inappropriate, very inconvenient law enforcement procedure. And the timing is so wrong. We haven't been able to make sense of this. My dear friends, there's a problem with timing, not just because it's pre-election, but also when there's a state crisis. We're having a state crisis. There's a big problem between our president and the government, there's a problem; there's a state crisis. So everyone who's interested in the political dimension, I'm looking at public opinion about it, there's different groups in the ruling party, they're dealing with each other. It's thought that they're dealing with each other, but before that -- that's not our concern, that's the problem of the ruling party -- there's a state crisis. A president, a government, are at very different points, regarding what? The President and the government are at very different points regarding Turkey's most important issue; they are at different points regarding Turkey's most important, deepest problem. The president calls the Kurdish issue he's taken so far, not the Kurdish problem. He says the talks on the solution process so far are wrong; he says the meetings he's attended, the deputy prime minister, the ministers, the government attended are wrong; he says the statements are wrong; he says the Watch Committee is wrong; there's no way to understand them; there's no way to understand them. This is a state crisis. In an environment where there is a state crisis, we're talking about a bag of laws that are not clear -- I'll explain the details later -- we're not talking about this state crisis, we're not doing what needs to be done about this state crisis, and we're describing this state crisis as a political crisis that's so important, that some problems in the ruling party itself are interpreted as personal problems. This is a total state crisis; it needs to be dealt with seriously here at a time like this. Since negotiations are being held before an election, if Congress is open, it should be brought to the attention. If we care about the government, if we care about our future, that's what we need to talk about. Mr. President is talking about a system change, and according to him, he's talking about the creation of a presidential system, and especially this parliamentary system is trying to prevent it from running. That's what we're dealing with. These, of course, are troubled. The President is trying to prove that this parliamentary system doesn't work, and the government can't, and he's trying to prove it, and he says, "Sir, what I say is true, let's go to the presidential system." For 12 years, he's been acting as Prime Minister, denying the system he's run, trying to change it. This is a situation that could have very dangerous consequences, valuable lawmakers. We need to discuss this matter here instead of this particular bag of laws. I repeat. Mr. President confesses from time to time about his past mistakes -- politics, I think -- about the arrests of commanders, about the arrests of our teachers, about the arrests of businessmen or journalists, he can say that we were deceived today. Then, if you were deceived yesterday, Mr. President, you may have been deceived either in this matter or in this Kurdish issue, as well as in the solution. Then what you're doing is wrong, then you should resign. We've been tricked. A deluded Prime Minister must resign from a Prime Minister who has been tricked into such an important matter. We need to talk about these things here, dear friends, valuable lawmakers. The Undersecretary of MIT immediately, you know, left, ran for Congress, was sent back again because of the conflict between the government and the President. It's still not signed by the Undersecretary of MIT. He shouldn't be sitting there, he shouldn't be doing that job. It's not signed, it's not signed because the procedure says there's a flaw, there's a mistake. I mean, that's all there is to talk about, and that's all there is to it. Mr. President says I'm not a subject model. You're not a subject model, but you have a constitutional responsibility. Do your duty within that responsibility or irresponsibility. There's a great deal of trouble in the country and what we're dealing with, my dear friends. Oh, and it's also said that all of these are argumentative fights between the President and the Government. If there is such a situation, it's the most dangerous because it's treason, it's treason, dear friends. If there is such a state's weariness by combat, it's treason; it's more dangerous. I'd be much more upset if that were the case. Now, about this bag of law. And my dear friends, before me, they made a promise on the whole thing, and they told me. The most important, urgent item is the removal of staff for the Ministry of National Education. We said, "This is the only important thing, this is the urgent thing. Let's take it out, let's not argue, it'll be out by now." Let's send it to the General Assembly. We could have removed it within the last week, it could have been implemented by now. With this clause, from now on, 35,000 teachers will be given a staff this year; such a statement has been made. So, how much is the need? National Ministry of Education officials have reported -- we asked at the mission -- we need 115 grand this year. There will be 35,000 appointments. Then we need 80 grand more staff for teachers only. Why can't we throw them away? I mean, this education is the most important thing. Sir, it's a matter of money, a matter of budget. If it's a matter of budgets, if it's a matter of money, if you didn't build a palace then you should have opposed it. we said. You don't spend money for education, you don't hire when you're open, your budgets are limited. You give reason, but you can do the palace, or you can spend this much on transportation, or you can buy a plane. Turkey has so much luxury, it was no excuse. If 35,000 are due this year by the end of the year, and we need 115 grand in addition, then they need to be made, too. We've made a motion in the Commission, and we've asked them to be corrected, and we're going to make these motions when it's time again. These things need to be fixed, friends; if we're doing a job, let's do a proper job, let's do a sensible job, make sense of what we're doing. In terms of education -- it's the most important issue, it's the most important issue in Turkey -- let's give them a proper staff if we're giving them a staff. We need schools right now, so let's get this over with. We can't do this with a bunch of crappy, little casts like this. Another issue, my dear friends, is that the TRT is receiving services from the Anadolu Agency. Now, TRT is already getting service from the Anadolu Agency, and TRT is getting service from the Anadolu Agency, and it can buy directly to the 22nd article of the Public Contraction Act, up to 7.7 million liras. We've looked into it, the highest package of the Anadolu Agency... that's true for other agencies, that's true for Reuters, that's true for the ANCA, the highest packages are around $26,000. So within a year, the amount of service that TRT will receive from the Anadolu Agency does not exceed $2.5m, such a situation has arisen. Well, TRT can already get up to $7.7 million without bidding because they're state-run agencies from the Anadolu Agency. What is this? So there's a purchase on this. The Anadolu Agency doesn't have that kind of service. What's this? The Anadolu Agency is a very harmful institution, an institution that is constantly damaging, is not profitable, it doesn't work well, it operates like a government horn, despite all of this, and it's being supplied with resources. And we also said that during the election, there was a position at the Anadolu Agency for election polls, and that those staffs served the ruling party, as well. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answers for that. This is a very serious accusation, look, my other friends have just said it, and I'm saying as the main opposition party MP: it's such a serious accusation, and my dear friends are unable to answer it. There's no such procedure, there's no law in this way, and the law in this way has to be legan. On the other hand, the state has its way, so I've left the other side, there's an organization in the government. Some organizations are 100 per cent public enterprises. Some are public economic initiatives, which are organized to fight market conditions in order to work more freely in the market. There are independent organizations. And then there are those organized in the form of a company. The Anadolu Agency is an anonymous company, which must work in the form of an anonymous company. You don't hire him as a corporation, you hire him as an Anadolu agent as a public institution, you transfer resources. Then you're breaking public order -- look, public order is not just the order of the street -- it's breaking public order, it's doing it. It's breaking a law, a law, a law, a violation of state order, doing stupid things. I wonder how he's gonna answer that, my friend from now on. He probably won't answer. Another issue, one of the items that was brought in, was the 12th article, and the Loan Guarantee Fund was being transferred $1 billion from the treasury to $2 billion, and it is intended to increase its supply by 1 billion. Companies such as the Credit Guarantee Fund have emerged in times of crisis; in times of crisis, especially in the crisis of certain sectors, in general crises, they have been brought to support companies that have difficulty getting loans from banks, who have difficulty providing guarantees to banks that have problems, who can't guarantee them. That's right, it's a job to do. This is the Loan Guarantee Fund, which was established in 1993, if I don't remember anything wrong. He's been in business since then, so he needs to operate. But, let's face it, increasing those values, that $1 billion, is a one-fold adjustment, which means that the current economic crisis has been accepted. In a sense, it is said by the government that the economic crisis has reached significant levels by power. Dear friends, while we're talking about economics, let me say that from the beginning, the architecture of the ruling party of the economy in Turkey has been wrongly drawn, wrongly constructed, built on a wrong building. When there was a change in economics around the world, there was a joint in a time when we needed to be joined by the world economy, with the global economy, when we needed to merge, in this time of power, but this jointment was with the financial economy. We've gone, with the financial economy, and we've got, like, a lot of money, like we don't need capital, like we can control capital, like we can control finance, like we like finance, like we can, like we like it, we've gone easy, and it's supposed to be added with production. We should be a part of the world's global economy that needs to be integrated in terms of production, we should be able to produce more goods in the world, we should be able to produce services, we should be able to produce high-tech products based on innovation. This error was done from the beginning, it was driven away to easyness; it was easily borrowed at a time when there was so much money in the world, so much liquid, and so much resources, and they were thrown away. All of the high buildings between Iconia and Eskişehir were built today with those debts, most of which are used by public institutions. None of the debts, any of the loans that have been raised have gone to production, unfortunately, we're in a lot of trouble. Today, we have a great deal of trouble coming up on economics, and we don't know what to do. Both our foreign policy and economic policy are unfortunately at an impasse, and politically we're dealing with a state crisis, as I just described, a pathetic picture, and there's no one in the House, even under these circumstances. Another issue: This bag is a matter related to market fraud brought in with Article 16 of the law. There's no such substance, there's no such nonsense. If you'll excuse me, I'll read this -- this arrangement for the Capital Market Law -- says that in order to influence the prices, values or decisions of investors -- to influence investors' decisions, it says that those who don't want to do something to influence investors' decisions are not punished. Yeah, can something like that happen? In order to influence the prices, values, and decisions of the investors, you will do something -- you will manipulate, you will speak, you will be on the air, and then you will say, "I have no menfaat." You're both evil and no menfaati. You'll say, "You'll get away with it." There's no such thing as nonsense. It's probably one of the most ridiculous substances in the history of the Republic. Surely there's a logic, he's being brought in to save someone, which is even more pathetic. Another issue, dear friends, is that an investment in the election is being made with this offer -- the arrangement of dowry and housing accounts, the assistance of marriage mates and housing buyers. These are so poorly arranged that... you keep, for example, you save money to get married, you have to save that money in a bank account for three years, and you have to keep it in that bank account for three years without interest because you transfer it from time to time. You'll keep it at a very low interest rate. For example, if this were the period, if you had started on New Year's Day, you'd have lost that money once since New Year's Eve for 20 percent foreign currency. Who'd keep that money there? Who trusts you to buy a house in a dowry account, in a housing account? 5,000 lira is in the dowry account, 15,000 is in the housing account, tops. These will be increased by the year, but will be useful by the coefficient of re-valuement. If we're doing a job, we have to do it right. Yes, there should be more savings in Turkey, but they're not meant to increase savings, they're meant to be elections. Look, we've brought good things to the citizen, we'll support you buying the dwelling, we'll now support you as a state or as a marriage. To say, "It's being brought in to do propaganda, not to serve. It's not intimate, at least it's unclear who it's going to be delivered to; all of this was brought in -- without a proper demographic distinction -- not based on a regional or demographic segregation, not based on a job or a income situation -- without any distinction. According to Law 5018, an analysis of the impact will be conducted. None of that either. Please, how many people go into these accounts? Recently, the People's Bank... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He opened an account, and the loan that he had to finish in 15 days ended in one day. It's the economy, I'm afraid. On this occasion, I give you my regards, so I'll see you in the matter.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit05spe0145par0206	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until an hour, 7:55.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0145par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. Salih Husband, Eskişehir MP who asked for a personal word. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0146par0007	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a pledge to change the amendments to certain laws and laws. I hereby salute your high council. We're making a lot of innovations in our latest proposal for our Parliamentary Presidency and our Plan Budget Commission; we're again bringing arrangements to the agenda of our great Assembly to facilitate the lives of our citizens; we're making improvements in financing, education, technological investments, tax-style, competition, justice, social benefits. With the proposed bill, we're offering 47,000 freebies to our Ministry of National Education. So, we're offering our candidate teachers who are waiting for the appointment the opportunity to appoint them within the scope of our state. Our country encourages international organisations to open diplomatic missions in Turkey. With this proposal, we set up the scope and framework of the exception of VAT and OTV to the members of our Council of Ministers or international institutions, which have been approved by our Supreme Assembly, or put into effect by our Council of Ministers, as a result of international contracts that we have signed as hosts or party. So far, our income policy is aimed at getting our public revenues fair and square from sustainable resources. In this framework, we will continue to create new service options using modern information technologies systems and improve the quality of services offered to the taxpayers. In this scope, a parallel arrangement would have been made to Article 7201 by the conclusion of the fifth day following the date of the electronic notification to the email address. That way, we'll be able to make electronic notifications, avoid false notifications, and save a substantial amount of money on delivery costs, which are an average of $100 million a year. One of the proposed arrangements is to organise the operation of our Turkish Radio and Television Foundation. The current, fast, and effective implementation of TRT's broadcast, production, and news has become an obligation to modern - day technology. Therefore, any program that TRT will make from the Anadolu Agency will increase efficiency and efficiency in public broadcasting as an exception to the Public Contraction Act, which includes the purchases of goods, news, productions and services related to broadcasts. With another arrangement, we provide tax ease to the capital companies. So, we encourage self-source financing, and we anticipate a reduction in capital increases to institutions. The sentence, proposed to add to the Tax Act, encourages self-source financing by reducing the amount of the capital companies' cash capital increases through a reduction of the corporate tax statement. We're also predicting an arrangement that encourages companies to submit their shares to the public. Thus, we are authorising our Council of Ministers to bring down or increase the current 15 per cent of the stopage rate in proportion to the profit distribution. In order to improve the financing opportunities and contribute to the efficient functioning of the credit system, we raise the upper limit, which had previously been $1 billion to loan guarantees to companies, to $2 billion, and thus further pave the way for the investor. Under the Metropolitan City Law No. 5216 and Article 5393 of the City Law, the agreement was taken into account by expiration of the past debts of those who applied for a settlement of loans from 31/12/2004 and earlier. As a result of the unrelated settlement, it will clarify the issues that need to be removed from the records, that the sums no longer have the status to receive. One of the primary goals of being a social government is to promote the insurance system and thereby establish citizens' levels of well-being and living in a certain standard. With our offer, we're defining an insurance policy in our country. In this way, international funding companies can also invest in our country in accession insurance. In this case, we're running the definitions of the company's participation insurance and the director's company. With the approval of the proposal, the accession insurance policy, which has become increasingly widespread in modern insurance, will be fully involved in our legislation that ensures boosting financial coverage. The arrangement that we propose to do in the Capital Market Law requires that those who provide false, false or misleading information, report, or comment or report or spread them and benefit themselves or others be sentenced to up to two to five years in prison in order to influence the prices, values, or decisions of investors. Again, the Tenth Development Plan, which is part of our Tenth Development Plan, will be provided with the development of family aid, comprehensive, standard, efficient, and widespread family counselling services, the spread of pre-wedding education, the family-based services, the family-based services. We take important steps to present family-based services to our citizens in line with their goals. Our proposal will provide the state's contribution to the dowry accounts they will open in banks based on the voluntary participation of our citizens who are not 27 years old. This contribution will be paid at once in the first marriage of our citizens. In proportion to the amount and amount of due time invested by individuals, the dowry will be given at the maximum of $5,000. You'll have to stay in the system for at least three years to benefit from the support. In another arrangement that we plan to live in, we propose that we support the housing savings accounts of our citizens, who will have a home for the first time, in the same sense as the dowry support. This figure will be around $15,000 in proportion to the amount and amount of time that our citizens have invested in their savings accounts. In addition, our citizens will also receive $300 for the first child, $400 for the second child, and $600 for the third and later children. Another arrangement we propose will pay income allowance each month through the budget of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, through municipalities concerned with the budget of our family and Social Policy, with each means of public transportation service for private persons or companies authorized by municipalities. In this way, both our citizens who have been granted a free ride, and the victims of carrier companies, will also be prevented from the financial losses of our Ministry of Family and Social Policy due to a free transport arrangement. In the current situation at our university, normal students do not pay for contributions during their programmes. Second school students pay a tuition fee from the time they register for the program. Students who are unable to complete the study period during the programme, as well as the anticipated contributions for the period, as well as paying 50% more or more on the part of the course, according to the loan. We eliminate it and avoid overpayment. With the arrangement we propose to make, we eliminate the double-up application that victimises our students, and we receive the same coverage of undergraduate students. The proposed arrangements are national-oriented regulations that predict steps that should be taken as a social state to facilitate the lives of our citizens. In addition, there are arrangements that relieve the work, remove the chaos. With that understanding, with my belief that our negotiations will end in favour of our government and our nation, I salute all of our great delegation, who have contributed to our proposal, both in the Plan and Budget Commission and in the General Assembly, with their opinions, proposals and proposals.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0147par0026	The second speaker on behalf of him chooses Vahap, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0148par0028	Mr. President, Congressmans, here we are again with a bag of arrangements. We're meeting today with Proposal No. 705, before we've finished editing Bag 688 rows. It's 30 items. By the way, I've made a personal commitment to this entire proposal. Perhaps the thing we've been working on in the commission's work was the National Ministry of Education's staff tender, and there's been 47,000 jobs here. 35,000 teachers will be appointed by the end of 2015, but I'll make it clear right away that these appointments will be carried out by the end of April, which our teachers are waiting for. It's a total injury, and all our fellow lawmakers are well aware of the problems of teachers waiting to be appointed. In fact, we have teachers who commit suicide, we have teachers whose homes are broken down, and we have teachers who are depressed, so I'm going to come to that in particular -- in fact, we wanted a lot more in our motion, but it seems that the AKP majority here will win, that our proposals will not be accepted -- we want the appointment of 35,000 teachers to take place in April at the latest, on behalf of our citizens, citizens, teachers. Yes, there are 330,000 unassigned teachers, lawmakers. The Ministry of National Education needs 115 thousand teachers -- the Ministry of National Education -- there are 115 thousand teachers short of teachers in the physical conditions of today's national education. So more than 20 or 22 students are taught in a classroom is against international standards, but there are 115 thousand teachers short in the national education system, where there are classes of 30 or 40 people. Now, 35,000 of this will be appointed, and 80 thousand teachers will be left short, and there are 60,000 contract teachers in the current system. What we want is that 60 grand of what you need is already being taken care of by contract teachers, and they're being paid a price. Let's make a joint motion to discuss this clause and meet all the needs of the Ministry of National Education. Turkey's budget will cover it. Turkey is a strong country, you say. Turkey is the world's 17th largest economy, you say. Turkey's tax -- not bad -- will be raised to 340, 350; perhaps 360, 370 billion euros this year. So let's say that the tax raised by Turkey is going to increase by 3 to 4 billion dollars per year, so let's solve this problem at the root. The university exams were taken and the results were announced. I did a test, and I thought, why do I care so much about the teacher? See, in 2015, 2 million 126,684 candidates applied for the Nationals of Higher Education. One million, nine hundred and eighty-eight thousand, 488 candidates taking the exam. They won't even register for pre-license and open school because about 42,000 of our students don't get 140 points, and they've lost their rights. 575,768 candidates will not be able to take the LYS test because they failed the 180 base points threshold. Dear friends, these figures clearly show the size of the education system in Turkey. For him, we need to resolve the problem of non-assigned teachers as soon as possible. We can solve this problem in national education, in fact, within this bag of offers. Article 7 is one of the articles we object to, which the opposition object to in the study. Here's the news from the Anadolu Agency regarding the programme services of TRT. It says that the services that TRT will be taken from the Anadolu Agency after this are out of the scope of the Public Contract Act. The exception is being eliminated, and I'll tell you this: Despite the right to receive $7.7m directly, we're taking these purchases from the Public Contracts Act, which are unique to the Anadolu Agency alone. So why are they doing this? Of course we've discussed it, we've negotiated it. The loss of the Anadolu Agency in 2013 was 105 million euros. So there's an institution that's going to be damaging, so we're going to have TRT take news from there, buy services from there, keep it out of the scope of the Public Contract Act, and maybe we're going to have a chance to get the 1 TLP job for 3 TL, 4 TL, 5 TT, so we're going to send a source to the Anadolu Agency. Now, is that the only danger? No, there could be regular purchases from third parties, third institutions. I mean, we're going to the election, a third institution, a subsidiary, a service like that from an agency, the Anadolu Agency, and they can give it to TRT, and they can sell it to TRT. There is such a danger. You know the TRT, we're combining it with 2% of the electricity we're burning into the bills. Is it true? And in the Constitution, the principles of the laws, the duties, the powers of the TRT. He says, "Subjectless broadcast." But God bless you, it means that TRT is unconcerned, that no citizen following TRT will be able to say, "It's a neutral broadcast." Now, we bring an exception to the Anadolu Agency through the same TRT. Again, one of the things we're opposed to is the 16th Amendment to the 107th Amendment of the Capital Market Law. It's a complete and total delivery to the address again. Here, on the 16th article, a declaration is added to Article 107 of the existing Capital Market Law. What is this declaration? In the current law, those who give false, false or misleading information, report, comment or report or report to influence the prices, values, or decisions of investors will be sentenced to two to five years in prison and five to five days in prison. What do we add to this arrangement? In this way, we bring the requirement for benefit. This brings us to the whole Bank Asian thing, folks, which brings us that sample. Mr. President has released some statements regarding Asia, which the Bank has made about Asia, which could put Asia in distress, could damage its reputation. Now, with this arrangement, we bring a suit of armor to those who commit this kind of crime. So, when a politician, a journalist, a columnist made any negative statements about a public company about its finances, about its stocks, I didn't benefit from it. I don't have any financial interest in this public company or in the bank. When he says, or proves it, he's not facing any charges. It's an arrangement to get rid of the charges you've made against your competitors, some banks you don't like, some public companies you don't like. They've got election clauses, they're for election purposes. Of course, in your language, that's help. What is it? The dowry allowance, housing allowance, child benefit; the child's child's welfare allowances, such as $300, $400 for the second child, $600 for the third child. In a sense, of course, they encourage saving, but also before the election, it's like some socioeconomic classes... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... We provide financial assistance to poor people, support them. The arrangements that try to stir up an image like that. This proposal, of course, has the provisions we approve of, but we also have the clauses we're against. They've already been in our opposition. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0149par0044	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. There's a ten-minute time period for asking questions. Mr. Erdogan? No. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0150par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the total number of citizens and families who received benefits from your ministry's budget in 2014 and 2015? Especially these days, the AKP agencies are exploiting citizens by telling them that these aid came from the AKP budget. Has the Justice and Development Party budget ever given citizens a social aid? Or are these welfare benefits from your Ministry from the government's treasury? Please, if you explain this, we'd like our citizens to hear it. Second, it is alleged that for two months the subcontractors working in some of your ministry's offices have not been paid because your ministry has not sent money. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you care to help me with that?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0151par0054	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0152par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, welfare is very important to a country. We know there was $20.1 billion worth of welfare in 2013, although you didn't make it clear. What's the amount of benefits for 2014, as well as the pencils, can you give me more details for 2014? And that's 1.2 per cent of the national income in 2013, so for 2014, what's that rate? I'd appreciate some information like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0153par0058	Mr. Chosen...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0154par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just told you, with the arrangement we're making, we're going to appoint 35,000 teachers by the end of 2015, but society's demand is that this be done by April. I'm asking you for information on this. Also, when do you plan to appoint 80,000 remaining teachers after the total 35,000 appointments required by the Ministry of National Education? I'd like to know how many years your ministry, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, has been doing a total of social benefits. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0155par0064	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0156par0065	Thank you. Minister, in your Ministry's co-ordination recently, NGOs from Turkey have been called to America, New York, the United Nations Women's Status Meeting. These NGOs have been called to what measure, which ones have been called, and have been paid for by your Ministry? Do you have a schedule for your ministry staff to organize meetings of these NGOs, meet at meetings? I'd appreciate it if you'd fill us in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0157par0068	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0158par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the victim sacrifice game of elementary school children at the Nevruz events held at Kayseri Haci Sami Boydak Elementary School during a time when ISIS cut heads with religious arguments and displayed all kinds of horrors is a disaster. It is thought that two male students should cut the coach played by a representative student with a wooden knife brought by a female student. How do you assess the game where students lay down the sacrifice coach and tie him to his feet and play with the friends they cut as a representative? Is there a procedure for the people who orchestrated this game? How do you view this event during a period of violence almost every day in our country, when violence and domestic violence have reached its peak? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0159par0072	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0160par0073	Mr. Minister, as a member of the government, the government's spokesman for the past few days, Bkent Arinc, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Metropolitan Mayor I. She was also involved with her son-in-law, who was also involved in the visual, written media and social networking sites. How do you respond as Minister of Family and Social Policy? Do you find it right to share such shares with the public, including families?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0159par0075	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0161par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, here's a question about you... I asked a question earlier in June 2014 -- written -- but I didn't get an answer. I'd like to repeat my question: Your ministry's Official Gazette, published on 4/3/2014, has a matter concerning the moving of our elderly and disabled citizens over the age of 65. According to this regulation, every Turkish citizen over 65 can benefit from free transport when he shows his identity card. However, this was not done in the city of Hokelin, where I lived. Even though I found out that there was a card in return for 10-15 lira, I asked you about it -- in June 2014 -- I still didn't get an answer, and I'd appreciate it if you'd answer.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0159par0078	Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0162par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you have any insight as to how many couples will benefit from this dowry benefit during the next three years? Is there any funding for this number? I want to know about this.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0159par0081	Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0163par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we find the arrangement for teachers' appointments in the law proposal we're negotiating to be positive, but we find it inadequate, and we demand that the new 47,000-strong teachers' staff be raised to 150,000. On the other hand, there are other professions with staff requests. For example, there are engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians, and technicians waiting to work for the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Still waiting to work at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, archaeologists and art historians have a request for 2,000 people. For 3.5 million people taking the KPSS exam, there are 5,096 staff members, and they demand a central appointment of 40,000 people. How do you approach these legitimate demands as a government? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0164par0086	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0165par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. With this bag offered by the law, 47,000 teachers are assigned. In addition, does your government have an appointment and a staff assignment for positions such as agricultural engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers, food engineers, archaeologists? In addition, there are 24,566 disabled officers' quotas available in the public sector, and there are 1,010 disabled quotas available in the private sector. Do you or do you not plan to do any new work on the employment of these disabled persons, especially those with empty disability staffs in the public? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0166par0091	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0167par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Act, the health report requested by disabled and sick citizens -- according to the obvious criteria, to receive home care fees paid to their relatives -- is required to carry a 50 per cent disability and over-retarded criteria. It's very difficult for our citizens to take advantage of it. Our citizens, whose disability is 90 per cent, or even 100 per cent, are unable to take advantage of this on the grounds that they are not heavily disabled. Do you intend to undo the harm of our citizens by refusing to acknowledge the burden of the medical board report?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0166par0094	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0168par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, you've seen some services through social aid and solidarity. What are these services? Do you plan to increase the staff here, put the staff on the staff, arrange for their rights to improve them to a better level? How do you assess the results of this particular income test? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0169par0099	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0170par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to repeat my last question because it's not understood. Is it true that some city and county managers in your ministry claim that the subcontractors who have been employed through service for nearly two months have not been paid? For example, is there such a thing in Bitlis Tatvan? Can you help me with that? My second question is, is it true that the arrangements brought with this bill, titled the Council Account and State Aid, would support the sale of houses in the hands of construction managers who have frequented ads on supporting television channels recently? How many dwellings do you plan to support in the next two or three years? Is it true that this is an arrangement brought under pressure from these bosses? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0171par0104	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0172par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as far as I can take notes, I'll try to answer your questions. In the year 2014, Mr. Illum asked how many families received benefits? 6 million families are on welfare. I'll give you the amount in writing later. The question of Mr. Seçeer is: What month will 35,000 teachers take office in 2015? Let us inform you in writing after meeting with the Ministry of National Education. 80000 teachers are needed. When are you going to get these after these 35 grand are taken? The question is: We're trying to close the gap as much as possible with the annual teacher purchases that have been done over time. We want to increase our number of teachers just as much as you do. With the recruitment of teachers we've made so far, we've given our country the highest employment in the history of the Republic. We're gonna keep doing this. The question is whether our ministry invited NGOs from Turkey to a meeting in the United States of America last month, whether they paid for it or not, whether the NGOs coordinated their programs. This meeting is a routine meeting. Our ministry makes an announcement through various media bodies; NGOs who respond to this announcement, who want to participate, attend this meeting with their own resources, because they are a Turkish delegation -- with members of our Ministry. Our ministry organises various meetings there, including NGOs from Turkey. It's a meeting like this again. A friend of ours asked me how I felt about the sacrifice of children in Kayseri. Dear friends, I'm not specifically saying anything about this, of course our concerned minister will answer that question, but in general, I'll give you my opinion. We're monitoring the rise of social violence all over the world. Like all over the world, we complain about the intensity of social violence in Turkey. In order for this violence to be eradicated, we are a Ministry of Education who thinks that in order to deal with this problem of violence, a consciousness must be brought up from a child's age, a sensitivity must be given; that children should be raised in accordance with human values for a nonviolent world. We call every form of violence no. I can tell you that in general. He says there are problems with our citizens over the age of 65 getting free access to the city. Before we had a law on this, you know, some municipalities were doing it by handing out cards. However, it has now been established that our citizens, aged 65, show their identity cards and use domestic transportation for free. That's the way it's supposed to be. If the old system is still being implemented in some of our regions, in some of our cities, it is our job to pursue and prevent it. If you tell us specifically, there is such a mistake here. We will try to control the situation immediately. The teacher said that his appointments were inadequate, that this should go up to 150,000, our friends. Also, archaeologists, food engineers, art historians waiting for a government appointment. In all these areas -- including teachers, including engineers, including social majors, art historians, archaeologists -- the staff the government needs is opening up over time, and they are trying to recruit enough staff. That's what's gonna happen next year.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0173par0113	There are openings, Mr. Secretary, staffs that aren't filled.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0172par0114	You said there were spare staff on disability employment. That's right, fellas. From time to time, we are trying to improve the disabled employment with tests and employment opportunities. And in the coming months, hopefully, we'll do some of the disabled jobs. A friend of ours said he had trouble getting a medical report so that he could improve home care conditions and get them paid. Guys, this is a really big problem. We're working with the Ministry of Health on a very civilized policy that can eliminate the problem.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0174par0116	It's urgent, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0172par0117	Really, I agree with you. This regulation must be issued at once. We've done the necessary work. We're discussing it with the Ministry of Health right now. Hopefully, we'll try to prevent the victims by renewing the regulations as soon as possible.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0174par0118	Not unless there's a difference between the field in the past and those who don't get it today.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0172par0119	So what we're trying to do is... we're trying to single it out, whether it's visible on the Internet, if it's re-reported, so that the old report can be seen by a new committee, a social worker will be given reports, not only on health issues, but also if he can organize social life, he's disabled, and he's considered. We're working on it carefully, folks. A friend of ours asked if you had an arrangement for the rights of the workers in social aid, solidarity foundations? We don't have that arrangement right now. Another friend of ours asked me how I evaluated the results of the revenue test. We should have had better results. We're working on how we can revisit this to get a better result. My dear friends, these are the questions I can answer right now. I'm saying we'll answer the rest of the questions in writing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0175par0123	Thank you. Good morning, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0176par0125	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0175par0126	One second... I promised Mr. Good morning, sir, one second. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0177par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we know that 3.5 million families in Turkey receive $20 billion a year in social assistance. I have two questions in this box: First, how do you assess that a government that pays $50 billion a year is worth 3.5 million households, roughly 12 to 13 million people, only two fifths of what it pays to the interest lobby? That's my first question. My second question: the number of people who receive poverty benefits in Turkey, the decline in turn, is that AKP's economic policies produce and govern poverty...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0178par0132	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, will you answer the question? Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0179par0135	I want to thank you for your question about increasing the number of citizens on welfare. I want to answer that question. My dear friends, the fact that the number of people receiving this poverty benefit appears to be increasing in Turkey, or that the ministry is giving this kind of social assistance to more and more people every day doesn't mean that poverty is increasing, on the contrary, that the Ministry is working better every day, that it is aware of its citizens, that it's going to the remotest corners, that it can go into all the families that are at risk, that it can see what it didn't see yesterday, that it can make new findings today, and expand its inventory in that sense.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0180par0137	Isn't it proportional with unemployment?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0179par0138	With a program that we've just put into practice, which has begun in four counties, our ASDEP program will increase a little bit in the coming years. That's what I'm saying so you can get used to it already. Because we've been doing new studies to get to families that we haven't been able to get into yet, that we haven't been able to get into, that we're not aware of.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0140	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0182par0141	I wish you the best of luck for what you haven't done in the next 12 years.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0142	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0183par0143	Mr. President, during the law talks, in parliament, the ministers say they will answer a portion of the questions that have been submitted to the ministers by our MPs. However, I know for two semesters that the ministers have not answered the questions asked here in the General Assembly. The issue must also be followed by the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I will answer in writing. I do not know of a fellow MP who received a written answer, even though they say so. There's no answer. I particularly remind the government of that. Please let them keep their promises. I'd rather not keep the Minister's promise...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0144	Yes, thank you, Mr. Akchay. Your word has been made, sir. At the same time, Mr. Secretary, the representative of the government, is here, and I believe it will be carried out. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0184par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0147	Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0184par0148	Mr. President, I asked Mr. Secretary a question with your wisdom. I simply asked about social expenses for 2014, I didn't get answers, and I didn't get answers for any of my other questions. I want answers about them.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0149	But Mr. Kusoglu, you know, the time of question and answer is 20 minutes. We've done the procedure. Ten minutes is ten minutes to answer. We don't know how the Minister will answer any questions, so he'll decide for himself.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0184par0150	So the Minister should at least be able to answer for expenses. But he can answer for 2014, at least how much the expenses are.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0151	Yes, question-and-answer is complete, Mr. Kuyoğlu. Thank you. Yes, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that the matter be passed...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0185par0157	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit06spe0181par0158	There's a roll call. I'll do it: Mr. Günal, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Lightning, Mr. Light, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Belen, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Basesgioğlu, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Tallırmak, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Tureli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Elector. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0181par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call was not enough for the number of meetings before the vote was passed on the Law Proposal of 705 rows. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 15th article. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0186par0016	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the first part of the law proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws of 705 rows. I salute the General Assembly. Such bag making and making laws, which have become a habit by political power, are both causing serious problems in harmony with the main legislation on the subject of the bag of law, as well as unpredictable consequences in the implementation process. As a result, at times the same law clause is born in the need to be changed over and over again over and over again, and citizens who are directly or indirectly affected by the regulations within this scope are victimised. Dear lawmakers, the first amendment of the proposal of the law has been envisioned for the violation of the 47,000 staff of teachers, adding additional articles to the Court of Law on the Offices of the National Ministry of Education, 652. On the other hand, it has been decided that only 35,000 will be added and that the staffs can be filled by the end of 2015. Dear MPs, this arrangement, of course, is important for hundreds of thousands of candidates of teachers awaiting the appointment in Turkey, but it is both an incomplete arrangement and a pre-election deception of public opinion. According to official figures, the arrangement for the appointment of 35,000 teachers in an environment where the number of teachers is 110,000, given the capacity of the current public schools, according to official figures. Moreover, the number of teachers that are included in this arrangement is 47 thousand, but only 35,000 are for teachers who are waiting to be appointed outside, and the remaining 12,000 are reserved for teachers who will be interviewing the National Ministry of Education staff from the classrooms envisioned to close in 2015. Hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers will be sentenced to 35,000 staff, and in the current case the National Ministry of Education will have a much lower-level contract, as well as the loss of teachers by closing the classrooms. With this arrangement, the AKP's government wants to create hope and expectation with misleading information towards society, transforming that hope and expectation into an investment in its own favour before the election. The arrangement uses a vague statement that these appointments will be made by December 31st 2015, proving that AKP will use them as propaganda in the election by creating a pre-election perception that the teacher will be appointed. In a nutshell, the AKP can even use a public assignment, such as a government official, to its own political interests. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey is one of the world's youngest populations. Our first and secondary school students alone are over 17 million students, which is more than the total population of many countries. Every year, it is one of the main responsibilities of the Ministry of National Education to build schools and make classrooms in parallel with population growth, to appoint teachers as needed. Dear MPs, the teacher norm in Turkey is determined not according to the number of students but according to the number of classrooms available. In some schools, however, the class population is limited to 30 or 35 students, while in some schools the number of students is 50 or 60. That means a two-class student is being taught by a teacher. In one public school, it is against the principle of equality to have a class body of 30 in another, and the rights of both our students and the rights of parents who can make their children read through a thousand trials are personally imposed by the Ministry of National Education. Mr. President, there are still schools in Turkey, where the combined class practice is still under way. So students in different classes or different age groups are forced to study in the same class, at the same time and under only one teacher's supervision. This practice violates every citizen's right to receive equal education. According to the figures of the Ministry of National Education, OECD figures and 12 years of mandatory education -- which are still required by around 110,000 teachers -- are also estimated to have changed between 150,000 and 180,000, as well as the need for the number of schools and classrooms -- as well as the need for a single education. Dear lawmakers, of course, the responsibility here is not for those who prefer the teaching profession, but for the ministry of national education, which separates from teaching schools where teachers are needed, and how many teachers are needed in the field, unless they are on the way to planning between universities. Instead of solving the conjunctural problem, the issue of unsupervised teachers who are constantly creating new problems, which are being used as an argument in election times promises, can only be overcome by the emergence of the country's will to address the real problems of education in general education policy. Mr. President, one of the other amendments to the first chapter of the law proposal, the amendment of Article 4734 in Article 7 of the proposal, and the exception of all programmes, news, productions and services from the Anadolu Agency of the public tender law shall be carried out. Dear lawmakers, two things are done with this clause. First, the damages of the Anadolu Agency are intended to be made to TRT. Last year, the Anadolu Agency, which produced $28m in revenues, lost $105m. As you can see from these figures, the TRT budget, which is made up of shares of our citizens' bills, has been asked to cover the damage caused by the state-run opinion of the Anadolu Agency. Precious lawmakers, another reason why the tenders, which are allowed to purchase directly for 7.7m euros according to current regulations, can be far greater than public tender legislation is that by means of some programme productions ahead of the 2015 general elections, some people and institutions are legally willing to open the way for unfair gains. Mr. President, it will be even more possible with the admission of this clause that the TRT officials, whom we've seen over and over again see how it can be transferred through foreign productions to some of the subsidiaries and individuals. On the other hand, Article 133 of the Constitution shall be based on the autonomy and the neutrality of the news agencies who have been helped by the only radio and television institution established as a state's public policy. The first and fifth articles of the TRT Law include the principles of the literature of the TRT (TRT). These provisions are the basis for constant monitoring of the principle of neutrality in the establishment of the institution and its publications, and the neutrality of its legal personality. However, TRT has been virtually transformed into the government's broadcasting body by broadcasting policy. Valuable lawmakers, TRT, who are now funding the Anadolu Agency, which has been led in a arbitrary way and has ignored opposition, have provided the basis for practices that will pave the way for the unfair abuse of electoral propaganda by the Anadolu Agency in the election process. The public tender law, which was established as an anonymous company, but was made up by nearly all of its budget by the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information, is not understandable. This makes it clear that the state-run Anadolu Agency, established as an anonymous company, does not operate in market conditions, and has many privileges in a corrupting framework in the market. Therefore, there is no understandable explanation for all programmes, news, production and broadcasts of the TRT General Directorate prior to the election, except that the purchases of goods and services of the Anadolu Agency from Turkey's Anonymous Company have been excluded from the Public Contract Act 4734. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0187par0033	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speaker is İzzet Çetin, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0188par0036	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the group in chapter one of Law Proposal 705. I salute you all. Dear friends, we don't want to be really hurtful these days when we're approaching the end of this legislature of the House, but the AKP has never been able to get rid of its classics. First the bill, then your proposals for the bag, which is really far from responding to the country's needs, is extremely complicated. So their unsimilar provisions do not fully explain the concept of "torba" (torba). So he stayed for, like, two and a half months, Turkey is going to the election; at a time like this, you're both torturing yourselves and torturing the ministers and us as if it was extremely important, as if it were an emergency. Really, you don't know what you're doing. Of course, this bag was not the case of the law; its content was carrying regulations that would require us to be more comprehensive, more reactive, but it didn't matter as a result of the withdrawal of some of the clauses from the Commission's agreement with friends during the Plan and Budget Commission talks. There are two or three arrangements in this proposal. In favour of the public, in the interest of the public, in the interest of the public, in the interest of the workers, in the interests of the civil servants, in the interests of the locals, in the interest of the small-income people, in the interest of those in need of protection, we have not responded as opposition. That's what happened here. As a matter of fact, some of the arrangements in this matter have been unanimous, and we have even found it inadequate. It's the subject of the second chapter, but here it is, birth, housing, dowry, so these are arrangements that you bring in as if you're giving something; little, inadequate, difficult, impossible to exploit, and to overcome the conditions of the crisis that we're in. But the main regulation, which is also in the second chapter, is to clear the President's rhetoric about capital market vehicles, especially Bank Asia, Business Bank, Central Bank, and the Central Bank, to remove his rhetoric from being a crime. When you look at the arrangements for chapter one, my friends -- my other speaker friend here told me, and I'll tell you -- not for four years, but for thirteen years, there's a problem with teachers who haven't been assigned. See, the Ministry of National Education has the readiness to show the situation of the need in the general area of Turkey. Once we look here, there's a lack of teachers in certain areas that contain thousands, all 115,875. In an arrangement in the budget law, 35,000 teachers, 40,000 teachers were put into the budget, and it was said in this section: "We will correct it at work in the form of 73,000 and 77,000, respectively, we will do part of the assignments immediately, and we will perform some by the end of the year. Friends, I mean, there's no way that a country, if it's going to develop, is going to be able to provide for education, without solving the problems of education, without solving the problems of teachers, without getting the school and the student and the teacher to meet the teacher, without getting the grown-up workforce and the country to improve. I mean, education is not something that can be used for such political purposes; it's a national education that will keep the state alive. That's why we use an institution called the National Guard to use it for our political purposes. The teachers are waiting for the appointment, they're building a platform, they're going from room to room, you'll be enjoying it because there's 115,000 openings. You say, "You're still not willing to appoint." I'll give you the numbers in the big numbers: 16,359 English teachers, 6,604 elementary schools, mathematics, 16,430 religious culture and moral science, 4.904 PE. It's possible to replicate these, over 10,000, class teacher 9,605, guidance 10,400, so pre-school teacher 4,500, special education 13.861. I mean, even though there are such gaps in these areas, it's still not acceptable for you to use it as a bond tool in politics. Dear friends, there's really no delicate arrangement in this law when it's looked at. There are two incidents. One is that you exonerate the President; one is not an arrangement that can be accepted, one is an autonomous institution, the law was made during the last legislature, the Anadolu Agency. E, Anadolu Agency is the government's trumpet. Of course, it's understandable that you'd look out for her, that you'd look out for her, that she'd work so one-sided. One of them's a drummer, and one of them's got the mallet, and he's got the TRT, and he's got enough of your horn. We understand that you have to show them favor, so if one of the main rules in business is competition, at least do it right. I mean, look, the fact that the Public Contraction Act has tried to take any service presentation from the Turkish Agency without contracting it, directly from the Anadolu Agency shows how untrustworthy the Public Contracting Law is, how untrustworthy it is, and how biased, how dissociative, how dissociative, how dissociative -- even in institutions that are not from us. Dear friends, without such a tender, if you favor the Anatolian Agency directly, they will go to international inquiry. Whatever you do, they'll take it away, you'll ruin the country. I mean, you've done more than 170 times since 2003, when you've been introduced to the Public Contraction Act -- in 2002, before you -- in 2003, you've done more than 170 times, you've changed it. I don't remember, I don't want a bag of laws in this House -- whether it's an offer or a bill -- to refer to the Public Contraction Act, not to make any changes to it, not to make any adjustments to it. And here you have done it again. Another thing you're doing here, dear friends, is unacceptable, basically, but I mean, how things work in our country, it's hard not to be surprised. I mean, what did we say? We have two important definitions for the Insurance Act. In one of those definitions, we said that there is a Malaysian type of participation insurance policy in article 13, article 14, and insurance policy 14, and the Malaysian type... sir, Malaysians will come and invest in our insurance sector. Well, let's organize our insurance space accordingly, make room for them. In another, you're saying that the executive company model -- my friend who just spoke for the group from the National Movement Party -- said that's what the British company Lloyds wants, so let's adapt the management company model to us. Friends, neither our economy nor their economy, nor our banking, so, economic sizes don't fit together; administrative structures, commercial laws, banking systems, we're different countries. I mean, just because the Malaysians want you to do it, you do it because the British want you to do it -- well, total surrender. Yes, give an answer to the wishes of our citizens. Unregistered teachers are waiting for a staff, workers needed minimum wage, slave fees to remove the subcontractor system, and without registration, give them an answer. Ten-and-a-half-11 million pensioners are miserable. The farmer lays down what he's taken from the land, and he can't get up. For 11 years, the Minister of Agriculture has said that this is what we've done, but our people don't know about it. So, what you have to do for the country, when what you have to do for the country is in the middle of what you have to do, you're either trying to make a law of capital circles, interests, colonials throwing money into the pool, that's what the Congress or the British wanted, that's what the American wanted, that's what Malaysia wanted, that's what you're going to bring it in, and you're going to block the agenda of the House, and you're going to block the public's agenda. I hope these laws are the last, and you will be the last. I salute the High Council, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0189par0051	Thank you. Now, Erkan Akçay, who has asked for the title of the National Movement Party Group and its person... Mr. Akçay, since you want to speak for yourself, your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0190par0055	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Law Proposal 705. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my speech, I'm going to read a speech that was made in an environment many years ago. I wonder, where and at what date, was this conversation made by whom? I'll let you guys guess, but then I'll explain. Just like this, my dear friends, the number of laws taken out of Parliament was so increased, the additions to the tax laws in particular became so vague that even judges and enforcers who were responsible for the practice of taxes and laws, were able to do nothing but frown with surprise and confusion, shaking their heads in anger. What else could they do? You see, a law is first passed, and then a new proposal for the taste of some of the articles of this law, which had just come out of Parliament in a hurry. Finally, this becomes law, but before we have time to say thank you, the government has set up a new law to complete the shortcomings of the second law, which has either changed or corrected the law that has tasted the law in effect. But that's not the end of it. And then, after a while, we find that there's a brand-new law proposal coming in to complete the missing parts of the law, which corrects the imperfect aspects of the law that is being passed, and that's why citizens are struggling in the office of the law that never ends. Not just citizens, but country and public life. What does this look like? But after landing at sea, it seems to suggest that the ship was not being steered. The ship is being launched, but the helm is forgotten. The ship is being re-sled for a rudder. However, every time the ship is launched, new new shortcomings, new mistakes are noticed, new screws in its spine, it seems to be missing some boards in the spine, the missing boards are being finished, recircled, and just as they are being lowered into the sea, it is decided to be completely dismantled and rebuilt. All the laws that have been passed in recent years have been passed in many ways, reminding them of every phase of the insect that hatches from the egg until it becomes a butterfly. I asked, "Where, at what time, could this talk be by whom?" And I give you the answer: this speech was made by a parliamentary speaker in the British Parliament in 1775, two hundred and forty years ago. Do you know what this bag of laws and the speech I passed to you from the British Parliament reminded me of two hundred and forty years ago? What did the Prime Minister of the period say in the May 13, 2014 mining disaster in Soma? In the 1850s, there were accidents in the UK. It turns out that in the 1775s, you followed the methods of law enforcement in the UK. The basic laws have turned from this bag of arrangements to a patch that's not really known. When we look at a tender law today, when we consider Law 5018, the tax laws and many other fundamental laws have turned into an uncertain dress. Let's not go too far, just last Thursday, during Bags 688 rows of Law talks, there was an additive 22. As soon as this was added, you made a motion to change this item. So you've changed a substance before it's changed, and so you've moved on to history. This is what I just told you, and now you're doing everything you can to convince me of the findings I've brought, and you're doing everything you can to give me credit. Honourable lawmakers are constantly presented in bag laws with new tax exceptions. There is an exception to tax laws, exemptions, or an exception to the Council of Ministers in Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11. The Justice and Development Party has become the authority of exceptions and exemptions with such legal regulations. With legal regulations, you have become an exception and a government of exemptions. With all the exceptions and exemptions, the very essence of the law evaporates, the essence of the law is gone, it's gone. Moreover, these provisions serve the interests of a narrow roundabout rather than in favour of our citizens. The 7th article of the proposal includes exceptions from the Public Contracting Law for all programmes, news, production and services taken from the Anadolu Agency. Of course, we would have been surprised if there were no exceptions from the Public Contraction Law, but you did not mislead us again. This material is a bag of legal classics. This is a provision that lays the groundwork for new corruption and irregularities in our tender legislation, and we are now a believer in the Justice and Development Party's quality, a defining feature. The Anadolu Agency is losing money. The cost of the agency in 2014 is 105 million liras. According to this, the Anadolu Agency has damaged nearly 4 times its income in 2014. The agency's income in 2014 is 28 million liras. These figures are the information provided by the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, the Treasury, in the Commission. With this clause, the damage of the Anadolu Agency is being imposed on the TRT (TRT) and thus on the Turkish nation through immunity from the tender Act. It is tasked with closing the losses of the TRT Anadolu Agency, which is funded by money from the public's electricity bills. Dear lawmakers, what social needs and expectations do this arrangement meet? What economic reasons are they born from? Even the 7th article of the proposal shows that Turkey was under informal, arbitrary and personal administration during the AKP period. It is also remarkable that this arrangement is brought ahead of the parliamentary general elections. Under the rule of the Justice and Development Party, the principle of neutrality, which was ruled by Article 133 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the TRT Law, and by Articles 1 of the 1st and 5th of the Law, was destroyed in the TRT publications during the reigning of the Justice and Development Party. On the one hand, the TRT (TRT) that eliminates neutrality from the principles of literature is now being granted immunity from the Public Contraction Law. So in other words, the bias of TRT (TRT) in its tenders is also intended to be legalized. Article 13 of the proposal is provided with the definitions of the insurance industry's executive company, and of the company's participation insurance policy. The term "client insurance" is prepared according to the demands of capital from Malaysia and Gulf countries. According to the Commission, this arrangement was brought to Turkey to ensure that international capital does not hesitate in its investments, and again, in the last bag law, there were arrangements for the public-private cooperation, unfortunately, to bypass the Turkish judiciary, which means that such requests from abroad have been intense. The definition of the executive company in the Article text was also learned in the Commission, where a British insurance company was added at the request. The British insurance company, which is expected to enter the Turkish market after this arrangement, will fully control the Turkish market. When we consider that more than 70 per cent of the insurance sector currently holds foreign capital, foreign insurance companies will be completely in control of Turkey's insurance sector after this arrangement entered the Turkish market. These arrangements, which have been discussed in the General Assembly, are the return of capitalizations, one of the reasons for Ottoman State's weakening and one of the key factors leading to the weakening process, along with the AKP government. These are official capitalization regulations. This scenario is a parallel to the process that began with the 1839 Axe Harbor Agreement, which resulted in the financial bankruptcy of the Ottoman Empire in 1914. The foreign debt, which reached $396.8 billion in the third quarter of 2014, is that history repeats concessions and exceptions to foreign investors and financial institutions. This must be what you call the new Turkey, the new Ottoman. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important goals of finance policies is justice in taxation. The exceptions and exemptions brought with tax laws and the collections in tax pens ignore this basic principle and show that tax injustice has become increasingly evident in Turkey. Some tax regulations in the bag also serve. In our country, production is slowing down, the economy is slowing down, and the economy is slowing down, the domestic and external demand is shrinking, the revenue growth is falling, the confidence in markets is increasing; unemployment, inflation is increasing, the debt of both our citizens and the private sector is increasing. In this environment, Turkey's economy has begun to shrink, let alone grow. And so it is for us to say, in the form of a person's common sense, one cannot be addressed, one can't be seen. It is in the form of a person's rank. It is in the form of a government policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the things we find favourable in this bag of proposals is the appointment of teachers. 47,000 new recruits are being assigned. I'd like to put it this way that we've found a lack of positives. Certainly, when we consider it with the contract teachers, the need for a teacher is 110 grand, plus 180 with the contractors. The number of teachers waiting to be appointed is 300. Other than that, agricultural engineers, veterinarians, food engineers, water products engineers and archaeologists are expected to be appointed, and there is no sound from the government. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0191par0071	Mehmet Yüksel, Denizli MP who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0192par0073	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws of 705 rows. I salute you all with love and respect. In this law proposal, which includes many social projects, there is a law on raising us to 2 billion euros -- 2 billion euros -- to 2 billion euros -- to the extent that the loan Guarantee Fund, which already operates on our businesses, which are deeply concerned about securing guarantees, is already being raised to 2 billion euros. This Loan Guarantee Fund has so far given significant support to our COBIs, especially to those who have made new investments or who are trying to improve their current investments, but who are having trouble providing assurances. So far, our COBI numbers have been around 8,400, and 7.103 of them have received positive responses, and there are guarantees, especially for our women entrepreneurs, based on the decision found in the Council of Ministers. In terms of providing significant support to our manufacturers, the COBI, and in terms of encouraging manufacturers, the guarantee of support found at 75 per cent in normal COBIs has increased to 80 per cent in manufacturer COBIs, as well as 70 per cent in the naval sector, and, again, from the Credit Guarantee Fund. Here, especially in the manufacturing industry of the machine industry -- in domestic machinery manufacturing, our domestic manufacturers were given significant resources, important guarantees at the point of their investments, at the point of their production. There's also a very wrong understanding of our sailors. In fact, there's a guarantee that orders taken under export in the shipping industry. This is not a cash loan payment, it's a guarantee to the banks. It's a guarantee of payments made by companies who have buyers abroad to order ships from the moment they make the order. If the ship is not delivered to him, it is a guarantee of support and guarantee for a letter of collateral from the banks at a point of his guarantee. In this sense, when we look at the impact of this 2 billion TL source, we see that it has increased by 10 times as much and that the source will have a guarantee of a loan for 20 billion dollars, and that a significant resource will be created at the point of the COBIs in the coming period. Other than that, there's also the issue of our teachers, our appointments, which are often brought up here. There were about 400,000 teachers appointed to our national education community until the twelve-year EC PARTY rule period. During the last 12 years of AK PARTY rule, 458,000 teachers were appointed. Is that enough? It's definitely not enough, we have needs, and there's another clause that we've just removed, which we've established in this law, including 47,000 teachers' staff. 35,000 of this will be reassigned in 2015, regarding our teachers. In fact, the heart is that our fellow teachers can't wait outside, their appointments can be made, but this is what you do when we say it's a matter of resources, but why don't you use this source in the appointment of our teachers? But here we have to see a certain truth, the truth that exists.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0193par0080	Let's spend the money in the right place.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0192par0081	We, the AK PARTY, have appointed 458,000 teachers so far, and have exceeded the 400,000 assigned in the history of the Republic.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0194par0082	You don't know how to assign.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0192par0083	In that sense, it shows the importance that we have given to our teachers, to our young ones. Hopefully, we'll increase our resources. Mr. Cetin, hopefully, with this increase, no teacher will be left out.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0195par0084	Hopefully, we'll appoint them all in CHP power, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0192par0085	Trust the AK PARTY authorities, move on.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0195par0086	On June 7th, hopefully, we'll appoint them all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0192par0087	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0196par0089	Congressmans, there are two motions in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code on the continuation of the talks of the first section of Law Proposal 705. I'm having them read the same motions.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0197par0090	I'm drawing the motion, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0196par0091	Yeah, one's pulled out, and I'm reading the other one: Your current proposal is number one. The talks on the chapter continue under the Civil Code. I offer and supply under 72 conditions. [[İstanbul]] I submit the motion to your votes... III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0198par0099	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0196par0100	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Elekter, Mr. Akar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Küyükoğlu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Günal, Mr. Vural, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Longsırmak, Mr. Öz, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Varlı. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, there will be a question-and-answer procedure on the section for 15 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0199par0110	Mr. President, is there a roll call in the rooms?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0200par0111	Mr. President, there's no such number here.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0196par0112	If there's a problem, Mr. Hamzacebi, there's a problem with the system.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0200par0113	You made a statement there, but there's no such number in the living room. Where's that number?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0196par0114	Mr. Hamzacebi, there are 171 people in the system. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0201par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it is understood from complaints made by citizens that the hospitals in your Ministry of Gaziantep do not meet the need. In particular, lack of intensive care units causes many complaints. Besides, the activity of 13 private hospitals is proof of that. Also, more than 400,000 Syrians live in Gaziantep. Given these, do you plan to increase health investments in Gaziantep? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0202par0119	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0203par0120	Mr. Minister, the Emergency Service of the Hospice Darica Farabi Hospital has been quarantined for a swine flu patient brought from İstanbul Eyup. Do you find it correct that an emergency room in a hospital that lives in the area of 750 thousand people has been disabled? Why is a patient in Istanbul being brought to Marseilles? We've had two cases of swine flu in the same hospital, and our citizens have died. Why didn't you take these precautions that day? Is there an epidemic at this time? How many people have died so far? What precautions have you taken, or what measures are you planning to take?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0202par0121	Mr. Chosen...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0204par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my friend Haydar Akar asked me about the swine flu, but I'd like to ask you a few questions in detail. This case has also been seen in the district of Anamur, my constituency district, and three of our citizens have lost their lives. Of course, there's no definitive diagnosis on that subject, so I'd like to get the results. Besides, are these cases a climatic issue from what? According to some rumors, there may also be a disease caused by Syrian guests. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0205par0125	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0206par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, six days ago, your Undersecretary gave you 11 people who died during the winter season because of swine flu in Turkey. I believe you have an explanation yesterday. In your statement, you interpreted the number of people who died of swine flu, the number of people who died from H1N1. What I'm wondering is, in the remaining six days, are there really 19 people in Turkey who have died of swine flu? So, as the Ministry, do you plan to initiate any quarantine or emergency action plans? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0207par0130	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0208par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there was a bag of laws last week, and there was a substance about hospitals, or rather, hospitals that were being made, with public-private cooperation. According to this, the decision was made to be carried out abroad in the circumstances necessary. There's been a lot of discussion about this before. You'll have trouble finding Finns, you'll have trouble finding them. Let's not adopt this model. We argued a lot about it when you arrived. Now, there's a $30 billion financing load, and there's a lot of trouble finding funding, and most of the hospitals are still under construction, and they're late. Can you give me any details on this matter in detail? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0209par0134	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0210par0135	Mr. Minister, in recent years, street children have emerged in many cities as a result of economic woes, unemployment migrations, unplanned urbanization and disintegrating nests. The use of bonzai amongst these street kids is extreme. When people go to work in the morning, they see young children lying on newspapers, unable to speak, unable to answer, passed out under the influence of that drug. Does the government have any identification or any study on these? Do you have any study of rehabilitating, healing, bringing these kids to life in a center? To prevent this drug, do you have border security to stop the bonzaine from entering this country? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0209par0137	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0211par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, within the scope of these city hospitals, how many contracts have been signed so far, or, in fact, left unsigned? What is the obligation on the part of the hospital, and if you could just let us know how long these obligations will continue in total... Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0212par0141	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0213par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our hospitals are short-staffed. In particular, patients are either moving to the hospital in the city centre or trying to find solutions in Osmaniye, my constituency district, due to lack of medical staff and specialists in the districts. These two, unfortunately, are both increasing the cost and lowering the quality of service. For example, in my current information, there are no specialists in obstetrics, neurostetrics at the Djita State Hospital, and there are very few doctors and staff in the ER. There is a similar situation in Kadirli; Hasanbeyli, the Garden is already longing for a doctor. So, how will you resolve these problems? Public hospitals are giving up personnel because we're going to increase profits, and that's how you get them to be more profitable if you don't hire staff? If you could give me some information on this... Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0214par0146	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0215par0147	Mr. Minister, as a member of the government, Mr. Arinc is Ankara Metropolitan Mayor I. For Melih, she is not honorable enough to ask for my resignation. Do you find it right for such a person to be mayor of Ankara, Turkey's capital? Again, Mr. Arinc says that the areas in Ankara are being retraced into parallel structures, which areas have been left in a row? Do you plan to investigate this matter?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0214par0149	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0216par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. City hospitals, which were said to be held in public-special cooperation, have become urban myths. In this case, it's been over a year since the foundation of Manisa City Hospital, when will construction actually begin? Does Manisa City Hospital have any projects? And don't you think that the recent Law Proposal 688 is being held outside the Turkish judiciary and the credibility of Turkey and the Turkish judiciary are being undermined by the regulation that bypassed the Turkish judiciary? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0217par0154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0156	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, we have a real problem with public beds or hospitals in Gaziantep. We've just received the contract date for the Haunted contract. Gaziantep City Hospital also suffered a delay due to a change of venue, but now they're both rapidly entering production processes. Intensive care is a problem that we experience throughout Turkey this time of year. So even though we've increased the number of intensive care beds by more than 11 times in the twelve-year period of power, we're having intensive care beds in December, January, February and March, especially during intensive seasons. With new measures to be taken in the next process, we aim to take precautions and to quickly complete our other new hospitals by creating palliative beds that we can increase in existing physical spaces. If you want me to go into the part about city hospitals in this frame, collectively. Now, one Basakşehir, and all other hospitals except the Ethics have finished their contract process and we've moved on to the production process. Manisa is the manisa we've been waiting for...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0159	Did you know we had a mine explosion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0160	Yeah. I'll give you the answer, Mr. Akar. In Manisa, in the first generation of earthquakes, the insulator waiting process was based on a minimum six-month insulator -- but we have to wait for earthquake insulators. This is the process to be expected because of the earthquake. Other than that, Bilkent, Elazig, Yozgat, Adana, we have no problem with that. There's an allocation of land from a military area in Kopeli, and there's something about mine removal in the area where military ammunition was stored earlier. And that's in ten to fifteen days...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0162	Mr. Secretary, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0163	Now, yes, but in the end, there was a warehouse...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0164	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0165	Now, I'd like to take this from the State Department of Defense...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0166	Is that the Syrian border, for God's sake?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0167	I wish it was like you said it would be, but we can't wait.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0168	They've got sports facilities, everything's been done on that land, nobody's looking for mines.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0169	Now, Mr. Haydar, I wish we were as comfortable as you are, but as you said, let's get started.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0219par0170	Okay, I'll do it. Come on.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0171	In ten or fifteen days, I hope we finish it. So, of course, international funding has been provided in all of these projects, which require international funding from the General Assembly last week about the trial. The international judiciary came to our attention as a need in this sense and passed through the High Council. As for questions about swine flu, whether it's swine flu or flu outbreak, first of all, we haven't experienced the intensity of flu cases until last year, late 2013 and late March 2014 or April 2014. So the rising pixels didn't have the intensity of the policy services that we were supposed to give on weekends or nights, except for the last 20 to 20 days. There's a pik that we've had in the last twenty-five days this year, and as of last weekend, Saturday, Sunday and today, the average number of patients we've admitted in the hospital in the last 15 days due to flu suspicions has dropped to an average of 60 per day in the last two days. So the fall of a flu epidemic has begun.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0220par0174	What are the mortality rates?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0175	Regarding death: We have 39 deaths now, today or today as of this morning. 30 of these 39 have been diagnosed with H1N1 virus, 4 or 5 have been diagnosed with H3N2 virus, and so I'm telling you that the other 4, 5 might be replaced by -- the Influenza B virus. So we lost four of the nine cases or five of them to influenza, and four of the other H3N2 viruses, or five of them -- this way. But in more than half of these cases, we've lost cases like kidney failure, liver failure, respiratory problems, chronic diseases, other cases of chronic infections, such as diabetes. As a precaution... no matter what kind of virus it is today, a virus with more than 300 species, and every year, fighting a disease that has mutated, mutated, and treatments nowhere in the world. Here are measures, measures taken by the individual, the individual, and we are taking measures that can be taken early. We're trying to treat our patients as closely as possible. Tamiflu is the part-sustained drug. We've distributed it to all our hospitals in case there aren't enough pharmacies. So there's no cure for the virus by being quarantined here, unfortunately. We're trying to make our patients as healthy as possible with their rest, their support treatments -- or if the cure is possible, if it's a cure -- by solving other additional problems. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Examinations from the patient we admitted with a suspicion of about 4,300 flu have been found in 366. The H1N1 virus has been detected in approximately 8 per cent of the proportion. When we look at European countries again, our country's problems with the flu virus or H1N1 virus this year are lower than those of the European countries.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0221par0180	Minister, do you have a chance to evaluate this matter? For example, there's a suspected swine flu somewhere, and 112 people are wanted for it. On the way to the relevant hospital, the entire ER is being shut down, quarantined. That's what I'm talking about with the action plan. I mean, isn't it possible, like Istanbul, that in major centers like Ankara, you can separate one of the hospitals into this particular infection?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0181	Now, look, right now -- the number that I just told you -- has been identified by H1N1 virus in 8 percent of the cases we've taken from 4,300 cases, with the flu suspicion, or with the suspect of swine flu.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0222par0183	Yes, Minister, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0218par0184	So when we get all of our suspects into the quarantine system, I'm afraid I don't see how it can be applied as a result and a bridge that we can take.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0223par0185	As Haydar Bey mentioned, the Farabi State Hospital is currently refusing emergency patients for four hours.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit07spe0222par0186	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0222par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the first article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705 in the current 705 rows be replaced as "330,000" of the "47,000" declarations in the table (1) under the First Amendment clause under which the Ministry of National Education, No. 652, stipulates to add additional clauses to the Court of Law on the Offices of the Agency and the Offices. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law proposals for amendments in accordance with the laws and laws of the Constitution, the Manisa MP Saleh Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law and Orders of the National Education Party; the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Manisa Deputy Free Special; the Minister of Humanity and the Minister of Law shall be appointed by the Ministry of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Izzet Cetin Rahmi Love Türeli Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Hilal Kaplan ADDE 1-25/8/2011 and further provisions for the State Department of Education No. 652 have been added to the decision on the Agency and its duties. "EK MADDE 2- (1) has been added to the department of the National Education Ministry of Covenant (I) on General Staff No. 190 and its Council of Law (I)." The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Alim Lighting Lightning Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0224par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0222par0033	Does the government contribute?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0225par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0222par0035	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0226par0036	Ahmet Duran Bulut.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0222par0037	Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0227par0040	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the motion that we've submitted on Article 1 of the 705th Amendment. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, the Ministry of Education -- teacher, student, guardian, ministry -- are co-ordinated, co-ordinated; the knowledge, science should be in harmony with the needs of the country -- unfortunately, may be one of the most unsuccessful ministries of the Justice and Development Party. This is how many teachers have been taken in the history of the Republic, and that's how much they've been taken in our time... it's not mental, it's not rational, because the growing population of the country requires that the needs of the country take it, and the needs of the country are not enough for you. Your own Minister's statement states that the country needs 115 thousand teachers, but for some reason you -- 10,000 teachers, 15,000 teachers -- as the reactions come in, you're making purchases piece by piece, close to the election. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is at the lowest in international measurements in education, our friends who are interested in education know this. Look at the OECD numbers, look at the other readings. Last year in Turkey's entrance exam, 50,000 students scored zero in 2014, 50,000 students. In other secondary schools, the same is true. The reason for this failure is that you see teaching as a trade, you try to sell it cheaply. There are almost 80,000 substitute teachers today. Why don't you make these from staff teachers? There's a strategy in that, of course. In one part of the country, the Ministry doesn't judge education here, the Ministry doesn't have a curriculum, so what kind of person should be raised by the Ministry of National Education? How is this person supposed to grow? He does not have the curriculum to present at the point, and he does not have the discipline to be applied equally on all sides. Teachers are again, as there is no training to raise a teacher, there are children from the faculty who are more than 300,000 teachers, waiting to be appointed. With 80,000 substitute teachers, there's no way that can be avoided with 47,000 offers brought in with all the country's needs. You take teachers of certain courses, major teachers. The philosophy group is waiting to appoint teachers. In Turkey, IT technologies are also waiting to appoint teachers. Archaeologists are waiting for the appointment. Agriculture engineers, food engineers, veterinarians, fishing technologies engineers, water products engineers, graduates of economic and administrative sciences, science graduates, why are you taking them out of colleges in this system? Don't you have an education plan, a program, a country? Isn't there a program for ten years, 20 years, 50 years, according to the needs of the country? ▪ A manager, we have sunk in education as a result of teachers who were trained in understaffed universities with an understanding of a seal. As far as reading goes, you're comparing the Republic with the Republic. We've reached the highest levels. We're offering 100,000 teachers. This appointment must be made at once, shortening the money from the palace, shortening it from the special authorities' cars, but it must be closed down and appointed. It's not teaching when teachers who don't know their place by assigning curves are there to look good to the administration, to look cute, to make the day go away. Teaching is a special profession, and people worthy of that profession must enter those classes. Do you have any substitute teachers in your kids' class? Then please don't let substitute teachers into the children of the people you've taken over. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0228par0047	Thank you. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who wants a word on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0229par0051	The numbers are different, aren't they, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0228par0052	No, it's the same motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0229par0053	Mr. President, we're discussing a very important issue that has been on the agenda of Turkey for many years. According to the National Education Minister's statement on the Commission, there is now a need for a teacher of 115,875 people. This is a statement from the Minister of National Education on the Commission. Well, first of all, I have to say that I don't believe this statement made by the Minister of National Education. I'll tell you why. The year is 2012, May 22, 2012, and the 109th Union includes the modern Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. I'm here again to talk about an offer of law on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the establishment of 100,000 teachers for that period. In his speech, the Minister of National Education says: "As of today, we need 116 teachers. " So in 2012, we need 16,000 teachers, the Minister of National Education of the Justice and Development Party. He says, three years after that, the current Minister of National Education also says we need 11,000 teachers. Now, which one is it? If there are 16,000 teachers needed in 2012, tens of thousands of teachers have been taken, which have been cut down, and have not been cut down, with the additional legal arrangements provided by the budget laws since then. This figure is unrealistic, as the current Minister of National Education did not give the number realisticly at the time, and the current Minister of National Education does not give the figure realisticly. There are schools in Istanbul, where there are 55-60-65 students, not in Eastern Anatolia, not in Southeast Anatolia, but in the Black Sea region. The Sultanbeyli of İstanbul is a class of 60 people and 65 people in the Sultangazi district of İstanbul. These classes probably don't count on the need for a teacher. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, predict the tender of 150,000 positions. The real need is more than that, and only I gave an example from Istanbul; there are these classes in the Black Sea region -- the dense classes -- in the Mediterranean region, there are in Izmir, there are other places. When we reduce these classes to international standards, where students are busy, the need for teachers will rise. The Minister's 155,000 staff needs in the Commission is a repressed need. The number, the real need, is far, far above that. Considering the number of teachers waiting for the appointment is 330,000, the need will be much greater. What needs to be done is to accept this 150,000 staff at once, quickly. It's not 150 grand, it's 140 grand, it's 130 grand, but I can't equate it with the measurements of compassion and objectiveness, as if I'd measured it or reaped it. We have 85 education schools. We've got about 150,000 teachers who have graduated from 85 education schools and are waiting for an appointment. On the other hand, there are graduates of science literature. With everyone here, the number goes up to 330,000. When we consider the candidates for teachers who will graduate from these schools in a period of two or three years, the number jumps to 800,000 in an instant; the number of teachers that are expected to be appointed in a two-three-year period. Friends, Mr. Government, Mr. Secretary, if you can't throw so many people as teachers, don't take tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of young people into these schools and stall them, let's hope that they'll end up in school. Don't say we don't need teachers. Let's reschedule. I'm running out of time. I can't talk anymore. Our proposal aims to make these appointments immediately, starting immediately at 150,000 teachers' staff and starting at April, and continuing at August, including the graduates of the new term. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing my speech, and I'm giving you all my compliments, and I want enough of a decision.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit08spe0230par0063	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the same two proposals on the first article of the Law Proposal of 705 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions of the same nature are not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705 in the current 705 rows be replaced as "330,000" of the "47,000" declarations in the table (1) under the First Amendment clause under which the Ministry of National Education, No. 652, stipulates to add additional clauses to the Court of Law on the Offices of the Agency and the Offices. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0231par0011	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0230par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0232par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0230par0014	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0233par0016	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, you're not paying much attention to what the opposition is saying here, so I'm going to ask for support in this motion with Mr. Erdoğan, who has been Prime Minister for 12 years now and who is Prime Minister for the presidency in 2002. Mr. Erdogan says at the Izmit rally in 2002: "Look at this system, there are 72,000 teachers short in the country. I mean, the number of teachers in that period also mentions the number of deficits. You choose teachers on the test. What the hell are you doing? Let our teachers pick a school and get on with it. Why are you standing in his way? Hopefully, when we form our government, we'll get all the teachers on the job, and we'll solve our educational problem first. Again, in 2002, he gives a speech in Antwerp: ▪ Yahu, a lot of our teachers, a lot of our school teacher, is free. The art teacher goes to math, music teacher goes to gym class. Why? He needs a teacher, but they're taking a test and they're taking a teacher. Then why are you teaching these students, isn't that a shame? I do not receive a teacher. Let neither one of our children read for nothing. But when we're in power, there won't be a candidate for a teacher. He's speaking again at the Samsun rally in 2002. I specifically remind all young teacher candidates: "Don't worry, when we arrive, when you finish college, what will I do? What if I don't win? You will have no fear because there will be no test. " Again, in 2002, he was speaking at the Istanbul rally: many of our young people, especially our teacher candidates, are out of work. The country has collapsed, the village schools are closed, and even the schools at the center are dying to be teachers, and you're auditioning for teachers. Let our young teachers go to work. For so many years, then take it, will that man have any more enthusiasm, or will he be able to teach? But hopefully, when we were in power, the teachers drew the bottom of the school -- they'll make their preparations, and the next day, they'll go to school with the love of duty, and they'll start their profession, so don't worry.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0234par0023	I'll sign for it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0233par0024	Now, while we're reading our motion on 330,000, Mr. Secretary of the EC PARTY is laughing and reading that motion. I'm sure he's listening, Mr. Clerk. We want you to fulfill your Prime Minister's promise to your current President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0235par0025	That's what Bayram does!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0236par0026	We got $400,000.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0233par0027	There are now over 350,000 candidates of teachers on the loose. According to information from the Minister of National Education, over 120,000 teachers say there is a need for teachers, which we know in reality is much more. So, instead of spending money on palaces, spending money on government vehicles, we're thinking that we could all make a radical change in the way that we're assigning teachers to a few private companies. Of course, it's unfortunate that national education was actually discussed in such a way. We're talking about a system with problems all over it. You're saying that instead of bringing in a legitimate bill proposal to address the problems of students, teachers, you're appointing a teacher in such an illegitimate bag of legislation, which smells of total populism. I'm saying that there's no way that this applies to reality in the other motion, and if there is time, we're going to try to express it here. So this is a very realistic proposal, at least for national education, that will solve the problem of non-assigned teachers. I'm not suggesting the opposition parties offer 150,000, but the recommendation of the People's Democratic Party to appoint 330,000 new teachers will at least solve this problem for now. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0237par0032	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 705 rankings in question "We propose and propose that the number of "73.600" in Article 2 of the "Subject 2 shall be changed in the form of "73.600" and the number of "77,000" in the box. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Shirin Ünal Türkan Dağoğlu Ramazan Can Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current proposal for the 705 rows of legislation, under the 2015 Central Management Budget Law (I), "Cetvelin III. We propose and propose that the 2rd amendment of Articles 73,000 and 77,000, which envisions a change in the Total Number of Determinations of the Relations to Public Servants, be replaced according to the appointment of 330,000 new teachers. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law proposals for amendments in accordance with the laws and laws of the State of Law, the Manisa MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and the Law Orders and the Law Orders of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education of the State of Public Institutions shall be made changes in some Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk of Rahmi Love Izzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Chooses Vahaap MADDE 2-22/12/2014 and the 2015 Central Management Budget Law No. 6583 (I) marked Cetvelin "II. The figures "36,000" and "40,000" were changed, respectively as "186,000" and "190,000," in the total number of appointment limits of public officials. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Common Law Proposal 705 be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Alim Ilm Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Erkan Akçay Cemaletdin Lightning MADDE 2-22/12/2014 and the 2015 Central Management Budget Law No. 6583 (I) marked Cetvelin "II. The figures "36,000" and "40.000" were changed, respectively in the total number of appointment limits for public officials, in the form of "186,000" and "212,000." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0238par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0237par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0239par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0237par0068	Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0240par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, carpets no longer fly in the sky, not behind Kafdağı. Technology is moving at a stunning rate. The majority of the countries' agricultural products, the size of the countries' tourism, the majority of the countries' human population do not show the size or power of those countries. No matter how advanced it is in knowledge and technology, a country with more weight in the world, more power, better economy, more prosperity in people. In this regard, knowledge and technology are strictly reduced to education and should be given within education. Teachers of information technology, the system graduates at 5,000 a year. Teachers who graduated from this class, which exceeds 30,000, wait for the appointment, while 100 hours of lessons, courses, major teachers, music teacher, art teacher, and art teacher study. These classes do not exist in the 5th and 6th classes alone, nor in the other classes. President Obama of the United States of America, whose economy is the foremost in the world, in information and technology, asks the educational authorities to teach the information technologies in elementary schools, to use the computer and to make programs, to learn. Why don't you teach the major teachers who have studied this science, studied academic education, finished college, and taught it in our country, that it can't be solved with tablets distributed in order to make progress in knowledge and technology in this sense? Why can't they be appointed? Why is the course of knowledge and technology only in the 5th and 6th grade? Why can't it be in the 7th, 8th grade, 9th, 10th grade? Does being in the 5th and 6th grade seem sufficient for him to grasp this lesson? Is that enough to satisfy the country's needs? In absolute certainty, major teachers should be assigned to information technology classes. Thousands of young teachers from the philosophy group are waiting in the country for the appointment. The side of them is guidance. With their parents pushing them like racehorses in schools, here's the deal. There's no guidance counselors in schools to help them solve their spiritual problems, unfortunately, because of their goal. Therefore, there is conflict among students, there is suicide, there is unrest among their families, there is no authority, no expert to discuss the child's problems. In this regard, I would like to welcome your grand delegation in order to make sure that they are appointed, that their philosophy group teachers should be appointed, that this is planned, that this gap should be taken care of.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0241par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0242par0078	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0241par0079	I'll call. Those who don't agree... I'll give you a minute, there's a disagreement between the clerks; we'll vote with the electronic device. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A draft draft bill for amendments to the State Department of Law and Law in accordance with Articles of Law and Law, the Eskişehir MP's proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws; the Law Against Amendments to the Law and Orders of the Ministry of National Education, the Republican People's Party's Party and the Council of Law on Law; the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education shall be proposed to the Ministry of Education and to the Minister of Law and to the Minister of Law and to the Minister of Law and to the Council of Public Institutions. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends MADDE 2-22/12/2014 and the 2015 Central Management Budget Law No. 6583 (I) marked Cetvelin "II. The figures "36,000" and "40,000" were changed, respectively as "186,000" and "190,000," in the total number of appointment limits of public officials. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0243par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0241par0091	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0244par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0241par0093	Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0245par0095	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 2nd Amendment. Now, in fact, when our motion for Article 1 is not accepted, it is of no value. There are 47,000 numbers in the original arrangement, and our motion was 150,000, which, of course, was not accepted. In fact, since these negotiations have started, we've been getting very intense messages from the candidates of teachers, and those people and our brothers are watching us at the top of their screens to see if they can be added to it or if the Supreme Assembly will show such will, but unfortunately, that hope has also failed with your votes. Not only the nominees of teachers, but also the other profession groups. They're giving us feedbacks, giving us notices. Computer engineers, agricultural engineers, water products engineers, veterinarians, economists, art history teachers, archaeologists, whatever profession group you can think of, they all have problems of not being appointed.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0246par0098	Mining engineers...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0245par0099	And whose fault is that? Mr. Baluken has just voiced his claim here in 2002 that Mr. President had made at that time before he was in power. Let go, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan of 12 years ago who has committed to taking the KPSS exam and taking a school assignment or giving teachers the right to teach without a test. Now, there are 184 -- I think, if not -- both state and foundation universities in Turkey. We're still opening up college. Last week, the National Education Commission received another college bill. It'll probably come up here in the next few days. These kids are graduating from school. And they need to take the KPSS test, and they need to get past that dam. In KPSS, there are also all sorts of tricks; here, questions are being stolen or answers can be served. I'm not saying that. Look, there's operations today, they're in today's papers. Large operations have been conducted in 14 cities for the 2010 KPSS. There have been arrests in the operation carried out by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0247par0102	Where's that prosecutor so far?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0245par0103	Now, I've seen what happened, who said what in those days? Meanwhile, the opposition brought up these allegations at the time, making motions. Let's look into these. It's a shame, I mean, these kids' work is being stolen. You steal money, but labor theft is the meanest thing in God's eyes, so it's the most despicable. Year after year, college kids' hard work stolen. What's it called? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan stated that KPSS results were published immediately after the examination on a site known for their close proximity to the terrorist organization. What's the point? Obstructing an extremely sensitive test like KPSS, terrorizing a test with a future, the hope of millions like KPSS, hitting people in their most vulnerable places, hurting them in their most vulnerable places. They played with the feeling of millions of young people. KPSS is extremely successful, it says. See, now, Mr. Çelik, then Vice President, also leaked the KPSS questions. He says to his claims: "The rain is already raining in Turkey, and the snow is raining in the congregation, you know, when there's a storm and the congregation is coming out. It's a fashion. It's about today. God has no hand so he can stick it in your eyes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0247par0105	Who said that?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0245par0106	Now, look, someone will have done something, and you can't even take it seriously. Get over it. He says, "Get over it." Today, in Turkey, 2015, they are being brought up and operations are being carried out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0248par0109	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0249par0111	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit09spe0248par0112	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0248par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 2 of the Law Proposal 705, Mersin MP Vahab elects and the decision given by his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current proposal for the 705 rows of legislation, under the 2015 Central Management Budget Law (I), "Cetvelin III. We propose and propose that the 2rd amendment of Articles 73,000 and 77,000, which envisions a change in the Total Number of Determinations of the Relations to Public Servants, be replaced according to the appointment of 330,000 new teachers. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0250par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0248par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0251par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0248par0014	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0252par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. Of course, we're going to ask for support in this motion associated with Article 1, but since you do not support our motion on Article 1, it is in a sense in vain. In fact, perception management is the most important thing that separates the AK PARTY government from other powers throughout the Republic. I mean, it doesn't solve problems radically, the problem seems to be obvious, but it manages a tremendous perception of what it's created about it. There's the same arrangement here. I mean, there's talk of 47 thousand new teachers being appointed here, but there's actually no indication that when we hit the totale, they're going to be positive against the unemployed teacher pool. On the contrary, we have a growing problem with unemployed teachers in the pool there. That is: 35,000 of the 47 thousand staff tenders are concerned with those who are waiting for a new appointment; 12,000 are related to the schools that are closed, the teachers who are left out, the teachers who will be unemployed, but when we look at the total number of teachers in the classrooms that have been shut down, there is a new group of teachers who have an army of unemployed from 50,000 to 70,000 people who are waiting for this current appointment. I mean, the number of unemployed teachers that have increased in totals, you give it to the public with a sense that it's as if you've solved the problem as well as the unassigned teachers before the elections. By the time we look at the arrangement, by December 31st, 2015, there has been an arrangement for these appointments. So you're going to have a completely non-resolved approach here that deepens the current problem. Look, it's not just the teachers' problem. Almost all of the graduates of science literature today are out of work. So, if these science faculty graduates have to go through some additional procedure to get a job, if they have to get pedagogic formation, then you need to make a radical change here. It's the same problem for education schools. You're opening a faculty to almost every district, and then you have a huge problem with appointing these graduates whose infrastructure is not prepared, whose floor is not ripe, their employment is not planned. It's for almost all departments. I mean, agriculture engineers are looking for us, vets are looking for us, water products engineers, archaeologists are looking for us. All of this is the result of your unhealthy planning. I'm a physician. The current situation with medical schools is pathetic. You can't fix health problems, you can't raise qualified doctors, you can't lift the sign of the city public hospital and put up a medical school sign instead. You, unfortunately, do not give up on that understanding. Now, this is an outrage about this KPSS test available for teachers... and I claim that you bring in all members of the cabinet, including the Minister of National Education, to take this KPSS test. Let's take an average teacher's appointment score of 70. If there are three ministers who have received more than 70 grades in this cabinet, I will quit politics and resign as a member of parliament. Bring in the Minister of National Education, put him on this KPSS test. Is that even possible? I mean, you've ignored all the irregularities available so far, especially about this KPSS test. That's where the speaker just said it. So you're saying he paralleled today's irregularities, but you didn't pay any attention to those irregularities when we mentioned them. We can't figure out what's going on in this parallel. We care about ideas from every political party. Today, the Deputy Prime Minister accuses the mayor of Turkey's largest city mayor of being parallel; he accuses the Deputy Prime Minister of being parallel. So there's something not right here, there's problems you can't solve, there's something you're covering up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, while we're on the way to these teachers' appointments, I'd like you to come up with some new motions, and we'll discuss this issue. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0253par0027	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0254par0029	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0253par0030	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 705 rankings in question "We propose and propose that the number of "73.600" in Article 2 of the "Subject 2 shall be changed in the form of "73.600" and the number of "77,000" in the box. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0255par0037	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0253par0038	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0256par0039	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0257par0040	Sir, how does he agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0258par0041	You can't. You can appreciate it.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0257par0042	How does the Commission agree, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0258par0043	The commission will give you discretion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0257par0044	Let's face it, you don't have two-thirds.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0259par0045	Yes, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0260par0046	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0259par0047	You're giving it credit. Due to the restructuring of some of the agencies of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and its institutions, the aim is to grant 600 additional appointments for these organisations. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0261par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0259par0053	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0261par0054	Mr. President, right now, I don't know if we're just missing information here, but we've allowed 47 thousand additional assignments, 33,000 to go up to 73,000. If it's 47 grand, isn't it supposed to be 83? There was 10 grand earlier? I mean, it looks like he dropped to 37,000 here when he gave him 47 grand.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0259par0055	Mr. President, can you make a statement?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0262par0056	That's how much we put into the Budget Law of 2015. We're putting 47 thousand and 35,000 into 2015's budget.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0261par0057	So, you're not going to make 47 grand?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0262par0058	There will be 47,000 deployments.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0263par0059	Your Honor, please, come to the line of commission, make your statement from here.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0261par0060	Mr. President, we've authorized 47 grand, so the government won't make 47,000 appointments, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0263par0061	Let the Commission give him a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0261par0062	He has no intention of appointing 47,000.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0263par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0264par0064	Mr. President, I salute your grand delegation. It has never been said to be an appointment of 47,000 in 2015. There are 47,000 staff allocations, 35,000 teachers from which will be appointed in 2015, and 2,000 from which will be assigned to administrative jobs and service jobs. It's 35,000 plus 2 thousand in total, but it's 47, it's 12,000, and we're moving it to the 2015 Budget Law.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0263par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0265par0067	I mean, 10,000... For the sake of argument, citizens should know that 2,000 of the 47 thousand staff members of the general administration...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0264par0068	No, two thousand, out of 47 thousand, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0265par0069	Okay, so you're not going to make an appointment for 47,000 staff this year.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0264par0070	Thirty-five thousand will be appointed, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0265par0071	35 grand, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0264par0072	35,000 casts will be appointed.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0073	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0267par0074	He won't make 12 grand.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0268par0075	He won't. Then why are you taking the cast?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0076	In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 705 rows of the Law Proposal. We propose and propose that the "management of executive staff" in the article be changed to "one of the top executives." Mehmet Günal Alim Lighting Lightning Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Order of Public Institutions and the Minister of Law shall be made changes in certain Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Riza Özturk Ali Serindağ Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Rahmi Türület İzzet Cetin The first joke of Article 26 of Article 3065, dated 3 - 25/10/1984, has been changed as follows, and the following joke is added to follow. "The delivery and services of property and services which will be carried out without charge of social and economic aid, and the delivery of property and services of property and services related to the services of the international organisations operating in Turkey under the framework of the government agreements or other agreements that our country is part of, and the delivery and service of property and services related to these institutions; the duty of the institution, the representation, the programme, the funding and the service and the services of private institutions in Turkey, or the continuation of their activities in Turkey, or the time of their international agreements. Except for the value tax to add goods and services to non-Republic citizens while they are on duty in Turkey," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the first joke of Article 26 of the Common Value Tax Act 3065, dated 25/10/1984, and to remove the third clause, which envisions adding a new joke to come after this joke. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0269par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0103	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0270par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0105	I'm reading the reason: The change and the extent of VAT exceptions are intended to expand beyond the specified framework, allowing it to be rearranged to include VATs taken from the basic costs of the public. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Order of Public Institutions and the Minister of Law shall be made changes in certain Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Haydar Akara and his friends The first joke of Article 26 of Article 3065, dated 3 - 25/10/1984, has been changed as follows, and the following joke is added to follow. "The delivery and services of property and services which will be carried out without charge of social and economic aid, and the delivery of property and services of property and services related to the services of the international organisations operating in Turkey under the framework of the government agreements or other agreements that our country is part of, and the delivery and service of property and services related to these institutions; the duty of the institution, the representation, the programme, the funding and the service and the services of private institutions in Turkey, or the continuation of their activities in Turkey, or the time of their international agreements. Except for the value tax to add goods and services to non-Republic citizens while they are on duty in Turkey," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0271par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0272par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0266par0120	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0273par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 3 of the bill. I salute you all. The third article of the bill is about the change in the value-appropriate tax, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue with the earlier problem of education. Congressmans, before me, Mr. Vahab Elector has also mentioned, and now the problem is that if you can't solve the education problem, you can't improve the country, you can't improve it, that's the problem. No, sir, the appointment of the greatest teacher during the republic was made by us. ▪ That's a load of crap. What's the need? That much. You must appoint enough teachers to provide this need, that's the problem. There's a teacher, there's a school, there's a student, but you can't appoint a teacher, so you can't improve the country. Now, the problem is, Soran, are we going to raise free, free, wise, independent generations, who are questioning, who are analytical, who can synthesize, who can compete internationally, in short, can we or can't we? That's the problem. If we want to grow it, we're going to have to plan our education accordingly, or we're going to stay third-world. With an education based on wisdom and science, we can only capture modern civilization. Another problem, members of lawmakers, is that I mentioned it in a speech recently. Mr. Naci Bostancı is here. Later, he told me it was a bit of a criticism. Now the question, my dear friends, is that Mr. President spoke in Denizli. Mr. President Denizli said: "On August 10th, when the President was elected by the people, a term in Turkey was practically over. The parliamentary system, which some started from 1876, some from 1924, some from 1946, was taken into the waiting room by our nation on August 10th, never to return. What was it I said, Mr. Bostanci? I said: Turkey is living in an actual period of inter-regional regime; it has been declared by Mr. President during the period of the actual inter-trial regime. What does that mean? The Constitution is practically in the waiting room. The fact that the Constitution has been taken into the waiting room means that the Constitution has been suspended. In other words, it means that there has been a constitutional coup, and therefore, Mr. President, the Constitution is guilty of a declaration, a declaration and a violation of the law. No one, including the President, can ignore the Constitution. In Article 104 of our Constitution, the President is charged with observing the conduct of the Constitution, or monitoring its implementation. The Constitution has suspended the Constitution, which is tasked with observing the implementation of the Constitution. This is a constitutional coup. All members of our nation have to tell the President to stop, especially you, because we are a constitutional state. The Constitution has decided that the Constitution will bind everyone, judicial, executive and administrative authorities, and everyone will have to abide by the Constitution. Including Mr. President. The President has no right to take the Constitution into the waiting room. My dear friends, you may object, but what Kenan Universe does with a gun makes the President unarmed. It is not possible for us to accept such a thing. And then he says, "How long will this wait last, or how long will it last?" So it says, I created an actual situation, you legalize it, you set up a legal basis for it. Do you accept that, dear friends? There's no way we can accept that. What's he saying? The actual situation I created says to legalize the suspension of the Constitution, otherwise until a new system comes along. The new system can come only within the framework envisioned by the Constitution. Having a conversation like this and having it accepted by you, which I don't think is acceptable, but if there is, it's a big mistake. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0274par0132	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0275par0135	Mr. President, thank you very much. The statement that the intermediary and the parliamentary system were taken into the waiting room is not in the same sense as the two intermediaries. The intermediary regime lived in Turkey. In intermediaries, technocrat governments are established, Parliament is bypassed, and this government, which is created by the elite, the technocrats, does its duty in a sort of secular state, in a state of state, from above. That's not the case today. There's a government in the House. Everyone knows how this government came. It's an accountable government.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0276par0137	So, what's he taking a break from?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0275par0138	The point is, Mr. President has made a demand for the presidential system from the beginning. The basis for this change is the approval of the public, the legitimacy of the public, not the creation of an actual situation. But if, with public support and the support of the public, a force in the House that will ensure the constitutional amendment, then the presidential system will be transferred. Otherwise, there is no compulsion, there is no situation, there is no actual interference with the existing Constitution. The people are the sole source of legitimacy. That's what the President said yesterday, and he's saying today, and he's going to keep saying it tomorrow. Therefore, it would be an assessment beyond the limits of criticism, an assessment that would be beyond what I think Mr. President used as a statement as a constitutional institution, a metaphor for a regime at some point. True and consistent...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0277par0141	Yes, thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0278par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bostanci's explanations are very interesting. He made the same assessment: the intermediary regime and the parliamentary system referred to by Mr. Erdogan were taken into the waiting room. The assessment is not the same. The intermediary is bad, but the fact that the parliamentary system was taken into the waiting room is not something to be compared to an intermediary regime, which may be a good thing. He made an assessment that I took with sadness. Now, Mr. Bostancı, Mr. Erdoğan says I don't know the Constitution. So we put the Parliamentary system in the waiting room, and in the June 7th elections, the nation will decide on the presidential system or the parliamentary system. Are you, as the Justice and Development Party, going to enter this election on the charge of the presidential system as a member of a political party that Mr. Prime Minister is president of, or are you going to enter it on the charge of a parliamentary system? Why don't you answer me that first? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0279par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0280par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0279par0150	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0280par0151	Mr. Bostanci has criticized me in a way that exceeds his will, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0279par0152	Mr. Serindağ, I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0280par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've never crossed a line, actually expressed what I was thinking. Mr. Bostanci knows that too, he knows that very well.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0281par0158	I've made my point.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0280par0159	Look, you can defend the presidential system, and Mr. President can defend the presidential system, and we'll call it nothing. If you get the majority that will change the Constitution and change the Constitution according to procedure and bring the presidential system, no one will say anything about it, but with the Constitution in effect, you can't have this Constitution in the waiting room. I'll take this Constitution into the waiting room. If you say it's called a constitutional coup, there's no other explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0282par0160	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0280par0161	Members of parliament, Turkey is not the only country in the world where the President is elected by the people and is run by the parliamentary system. You know, in Portugal, the President is elected by the people, where the parliamentary system is implemented, but there is no executive duty of the President, where I took the parliamentary system into the waiting room. In any democratic country, the President can't say that. Moreover, it is written in Article 104 of our Constitution that the President is charged with observing the implementation of the Constitution. See, I'm reading Article 11 of the Constitutional Laws, legislation, executives and judicial bodies, administrative authorities and other persons. No one can act against it, nor can the President act against it. If the President acts contrary to this, I say that the Constitution will be guilty of a declaration, a warrant, and an asylum, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0283par0165	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0284par0169	Thank you. Mr. President, of course, the state of the Republic of Turkey is run by a parliamentary system. I'm suspending the Parliamentary system. It means making sure it doesn't apply directly to the truth. It's a direct hit. Today, the executive body of the parliamentary system takes power from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So the President says: I don't know the Council of Ministers. I put it in the waiting room. To say this is to ignore the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0285par0172	No, he just had a meeting with the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0284par0173	Mr. President also states that the Parliament, established by the sovereignty of the nation, is ineffective in this way, insulting the nation, frankly. I don't know him. You gave the vote of confidence, I don't trust the Council of Ministers. I put him in the waiting room. The waiting room must be in the palace room. I don't know if it was the prisoner. Ahmet Davutoglu's Party of Justice and Development has given confidence to him, says: "I have taken him into the waiting room. Now, I have taken him into a government waiting room where you have given the vote of confidence. I do not accept that they, frankly, will take authority from Parliament. I will assume the position of the Board of Ministers directly. I will assume the office of the Council of Ministers in this matter. I am ignoring the will of Parliament in this matter. I mean, the public chose you, but who elected the MPs here? We've got the whole nation here, we're representing the whole nation. He is only a person appointed to be president, who serves under the Constitution, and is the source of sovereignty and governance, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. To ignore the government of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is legitimized, is a total coup d'état.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0286par0175	He took the government, but he couldn't put Parliament on hold.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0287par0176	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vural. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0288par0181	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0287par0182	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 705 rows of the Law Proposal. We propose and propose that the "management of executive staff" in the article be changed to "one of the top executives." Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0289par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0290par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0287par0191	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0291par0193	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 3 of Law Proposal No. 705. On this occasion, I salute you all. This law, again, has a tax reduction in investments by international organisations due to international agreements. Again, the following articles allow the Council of Ministers to do tax reductions or tax increase. Again, there are things about teachers, about the appointment of teachers. But when we look here, there's nothing here, again, protecting the poor, sir, encouraging the small investors, looking out for them and really producing the people of this country, watching over the farmers. Again, there are laws that protect big businessmen, big industrialists, big moneyholders, money earners and international investors. So why don't we bring these incentives to the farmer and bring these incentives to the people who produce them? We've been saying it here for years, we're saying you said we'd give them cheap diesel, but you didn't give them cheap diesel. Currently, the Turkish farmer consumes the world's most expensive diesel, and unfortunately, sailors today buy diesel at very low costs, while the Turkish farmer puts diesel on his tractor at the same price as the luxury eight-cylinder SUVs burn. Is this God's will? So if you're going to do a discount, if you really want to be fair, then let's take down the OTV in the farmer's diesel, and let our farmer use cheap diesel and contribute to his production. The farmer's most expensive entry right now is diesel and fertilizer. And I've proposed a few times about fertilizer, and I've submitted a question motion, and I've brought it up over and over again, and I said, let's take down the VAT in the fertilizer, and let our farmer take advantage of it; in his ornament, under his ornament, sir, in emeralds, in everything, in his makeup, you've reset the VAT, but in the farmer's fertilizer, you still have 18 percent of the VAV. Now, look, fellas, you gotta do something fair. Unfortunately for the farmer who really produced the sweat of this country, who was trying to get his kids out of there, who was trying to get their kids out of there, and who sent home all of us good vegetables and good fruits and hot bread and cheese and olives, there's nothing in this bag again. For him, you're always looking out for people who make money out of money in the laws you make, you're aiming to give tax cuts to people who make money out of money, but the only institution that really contributes to the exports of Turkey... look, right now Turkey is the only one that doesn't open, you know? So it's the only institution in Turkey that doesn't open on exports, but unfortunately you're always ignoring this institution, using the most expensive diesel, using the most expensive fertilizer in the world, sir, planting the world's most expensive seed in its field. As a result, the farmer is getting weaker by the day, unable to sow his field day by day. So, friends, if we're going to do a good deed, we have to continue our journey by watching Turkey's really, really productive people, sir, their small investors, their medium-sized investors, their people who also produce them -- but in no law that you've passed so far, unfortunately, we haven't seen them, so we're going to continue to do our reviews from here. Now, again, about the appointment of teachers... every school in this country has a teaching disability. There are a great deal of explanations in this country in particular about majoring, but you will appoint 45,000 teachers. You say, "You preach in this form, we have just learned, you will appoint 35,000 teachers." I mean, you're so good at painting people's eyes at everything, sir, drawing a picture of dust and pink, creating a perception. And our people will show us how long they'll swallow it, how much time they'll keep swallowing it. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0200	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0293par0202	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0203	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Law Proposal of 705 rows in sight. We propose and propose that the "management of executive staff" in the article be changed to "one of the top executives." Mehmet Günal Alim Ilm Ahmet Duran Bulut Bulent Belen Erkan Akçay Cemalettin Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Committee of Public Institutions and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education shall be made changes in some Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Aytüğ Atı İzzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk Rahmi Love's Way The first joke of Section 6/6/2002 of Article 6 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4/6/2002 has been added by members of international institutions in Turkey and members of non-Semitic Republic of Turkey during their time in Turkey to come after the declaration of "legal or delivery to these" of "homeowner government agreements or other agreements that our country sided with. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposed proposal of the 705th amendment to Article 6/6/2002 and Article 6 of Article 6 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0294par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0227	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0295par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0229	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to extend the scope of changes and OTV exceptions beyond the specified framework, allowing it to be reorganised to include the OTV burden on the public. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Law Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Ministry of Law; the Law and the Law shall be made by Manisa MP Free Special; the Ministry of Public Institutions and Institutions to Change the Law in Some Laws and Service Pages; the Law shall be made by the People's Party, the People's Party and the Minister's Minister's Minister of Education, and the Minister's Minister of Education and the Law shall be appointed by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Law 4th and the Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The first joke of Section 6/6/2002 of Article 6 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4/6/2002 has been added by members of international institutions in Turkey and members of non-Semitic Republic of Turkey during their time in Turkey to come after the declaration of "legal or delivery to these" of "homeowner government agreements or other agreements that our country sided with. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0296par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0240	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0297par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0292par0242	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0298par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow lawmakers, I find that we have made a commitment to the motion on Article 4 of Law Proposal 705. I salute the MPs who don't owe their political careers and gains to anyone's shadow. Dear friends, with this clause, you are redesigning the 6th article of the Special Exposure Tax Act. There were some diplomatic exceptions in that clause, which were exempted from the special consumption tax for diplomatic missions in our country in the past years. Apparently, this exemption isn't enough now, it's being restored. And in addition to diplomatic missions, you bring exceptions to other foreign organizations. Of course, when you examine the substance in a slightly more detailed way, it reminds us once again of how you load the burden of a private consumption tax on a citizen's back. Now, today, I'm speaking to the esteemed lawmakers here who call themselves..hodri square. Here is the courage, here is the article. If you're brave, if you call it a gauntlet, let's remove the OTV from the citizen. I mean, you remove it from diplomatic missions with this clause, sir, here, from foreign organizations, but not from citizens. This is the square, aha, a private square you call it. Come on, let's get rid of the citizen as well. Well, I don't know if any of you remember what we paid for the OTV Law. There are three lists attached to the OTV Law. In addition to VAT, you brought an exceptional tax on private consumption tax, if you remember. But that exception is now completely off the table, and you've started getting special consumption tax on everything. See what you can find, addition (I), (II), (III). On the lists? You're getting an EVV from the Akaryat, you're getting an OTV from the gas, you're getting an OTV from the rural engine -- look, I'm going to have your consciences back in a second -- you're getting an OTV from all kinds of machine oil, you're getting an OTV from the car, from the other motor vehicles, from the bus, from the truck. Come on, cruise ship, cruise ship, you can get a WTV from these, I don't know if you're getting an OTV from the boat. Come on, you're getting an OTV from beer, wine, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, all right, all right, but if you're going to go back and get an OTV from the rural engine, well, there's nothing to say but shame. You're getting EVR from crystal cups and crystal materials, that's good. And were the crystal cups brought into the illegal palace, each of which cost a thousand liras, received an EVT? I swear I don't know. If the government tells us, we'll be enlightened. I don't know how they were imported, but I do know that in my faith, when my citizen is hungry, drinking water from a crystal cup is forbidden. That's how I was raised, I don't know about you. If you continue to drink water from those crystal glasses, if you continue to drink buttermilk, my belief is that it is forbidden to you, too. And I have to remind you of that. My dear friends, from many materials, from many materials, from shaving soap to makeup, from sunscreen to TV, from cell phones, you get STV. Now, you're even getting a BTV from basic needs. You know how one of your ministers said that everyone has two cell phones, so shouldn't we get a WTV? Who was that? Remember, you're the minister who talks with his eyes full. Well, I don't know if they'll say "Brutus" tomorrow, but we'll be able to better understand how people are being robbed. You know, the strong will, which says, "What did they want to do to parallel construction?" You know, in Ankara, the city will see a little bit better what you give by hand, what you give to others, what you give to others, and what you don't give to them. Do you know what you removed from 13 years of power? From the precious stones of Reza Sarraf, you removed the WTV. Well, that would suit you. Good night.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0299par0258	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Law Proposal of 705 rows in sight. We propose and propose that the "management of executive staff" in the article be changed to "one of the top executives." Bulent Belen (Tekirdağ) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0300par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0299par0266	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. You have asked for a word on the motion, Lightning, Samsun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0270	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we've made regarding Article 4 of the current bag of legislation. On this occasion, I salute your high council. In accordance with Article 4 of this law, a declaration is added to Article 6 of the Special Consumption Tax Act, which is not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, and the members of the international executive staff are asked to be granted an ETV exemption. In our proposal, we demand that this be changed to the upper management. However, when we talk about it, of course, we all know that our country's EVR is being very cruelly applied to our citizens, that it has reached 70 percent of the indirect tax on the IRS Act in our country, and that this does not provide justice according to the distribution of a lot of revenues. For example, when a citizen and a private, private, private citizen pull his car into any office, it is unfair to receive the same amount of tax from both of them. One of them earns the livelihood of his family with that tool, but let's say Rahmi Coach comes in his car, pulls him into an office, and unfortunately, the same amount of it is a pain in their conscience, and the fact that indirect taxes have reached 70 percent in our country is also absurd. I've never seen a country with a special consumption tax as dense and high as it is in our country. So I'd like to make it clear once that at the point of this injustice, taxes, UTV, indirect taxes must be corrected fairly. Also, I'd like to talk to you about something more current today. Our country is really facing an issue of authoritarianism today, my dear friends. It's good, it's short, it's big, we'll fix it. If we have a Constitution, and it's much better than being ruled without any rules, we can be ready to discuss and change its shortcomings, but if there is a system, a order, a rule that connects us, it should connect everyone in Turkey. I mean, you're the President, it doesn't concern you. It doesn't concern me, I do what I want. There's no one in that attitude. If such a thing happens, Turkey will cause chaos in the country, away from a constitutional state, away from a legal state, and people will not feel safe in such a world, in such a regime. Look, recently, Mr. President Manisa was in somewhere, somewhere, I think, where a dentist was called upon to testify that he waved to the court while our friend was looking out the window. This is the case against the citizen of our President in such a manner. I'm 60 years old, and I've never seen a president suing his citizens like that. In the last month, in the last three months or so, for defaming the President of 67 people. I mean, isn't it the President himself who created this conflict of our own, if such a thing exists?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0302par0275	It's a shame.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0276	Why didn't citizens treat previous presidents like this if there really was such an insult? Don't you ever question yourself in a situation like this? Look, my dear friends, it really isn't right to go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0302par0278	Someone's going to insult you, and you're going to question yourself?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0279	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0302par0280	If someone insults you, will you question yourself?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0281	We need to question him, my dear congressman, for not insulting me to the other president.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0302par0282	Don't be like that, it's rude! That's what you encourage, that's what you do, that's what you do, that's what you do, that's what you do.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0283	Dear MP, look, just because a dentist looked out the window... there's democracy in the country, if you can call it a state of law, then shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0302par0284	Shame on you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0301par0285	Is there really... is there an insult? Where's the insult in that, fellas? Unfortunately... consider it, take the risk. You don't have to blindfold yourself and go after someone so much. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0303par0289	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 5th article, two of which are the same. I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Manisa Free Special (Sec. 5th Amendments). We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk of Rahmi Love İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Hilal Kaplan The following joke was added after the first joke in Article 107/A of Tax Code 213, dated 5-4/1/1961. "In the electronic environment, the notification was made at the end of the tenth day following the date of the interview's electronic address." The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Alim Lighting Lightning Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose at the end of the 705th day that the proposal for law number 705 is to be changed in the end of the 705th day in Article 107/A, dated 4/1/1961, which envisions adding jokes to Article 213 of Tax Usul Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Hasip Tiger Ayla Akat Ata Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0304par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0303par0316	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. There is no scientific indication that the Internet and e-mail are widely used. There is no objective criteria for dealing with the e-mail notification method that will inform you of this declaration. There is a good chance that those who have been reported by this method will be victimized. With change, the possibility is to be reduced to minimal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th Amendment of the current 705 rows of Law Proposal. On the fifth day of the article, we propose and supply that the declaration be changed in the form of the tenth day. Bulent Belen (Tekirdağ) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0305par0329	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0303par0330	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP who wants to speak on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0306par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the National Party for Action on Article 5 of the proposed law. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the injustice of the tax, in general, outside the matter of the notification. You know, taxes are economic values taken from individuals by the state's unilateral authority to meet public costs. Taxes today have social and economic functions as well as public expenses. The state can use tax policies as a tool if necessary to ensure the distribution of income and equality of opportunity among individuals. It is also vital that taxes be spent within the framework of the social state and the distribution of tax justice and income. As stated in Article 73 of our Constitution, the tax is taken according to the payment powers of individuals today. Generally speaking, as indicators of a certain type of tax-paying power, either its income or its wealth or its expenditures, so all taxes are taken from three sources. Some of the major taxes included in the Turkish tax system are classified in the following way according to this tri-source distinction: 1-Received taxes, Taxes on 2-Cervet, Taxes on 3-D. The Turkish tax system is based mainly on the tax income tax on income and the VAT and VAT (KDV) on spending. The income from other taxes is much lower than those two taxes. Tax revenues reduce the share of taxes on income, while the share of indirect taxes on expenditures increases. More and more tax revenues are being provided from indirect taxes, making it difficult for our tax system to get vertical justice to take more taxes than to gain less than to earn more. The fact that tax revenues are heavily based on indirect taxes, and the lack of full disclosure of direct taxes on wealth does not allow universal principles, such as justice, equality and free speech, to be carried out in our tax system. Dear lawmakers, economic activities outside the state's knowledge, which are described as an off-the-book economy, are at the top of the main problems leading to tax loss. Unregistered economic activities are destroying tax justice, and on the other hand, negatively affecting the moral values of society. The reasons for the unregistered economy are usually listed as lack of regulation in line with inflation accounting and future payment practices, high financial loads in regular areas, tiring of the density of bureaucracy in the economy, not enough of the control and punishment mechanisms. According to Finance Ministry data, the informal economy in our country rose from 70 billion dollars to 250 billion dollars during AKP rulings. We repeat here that more effective and strict measures must be taken in the fight against the off-the-book economy. Mr. President, I'd like to talk about the injustice of Tekirdağ province's investments in exchange for taxes on the state during the rest of my time. Although Tekirdağ's contribution to the state budget is on average among the top 10 counties in our country, the province of Tekirdağ is ranked at the 50th place in reaching the province of Tekirdağ. The clearest example of this is that we have a total of 375 schools in Tekirdağ, which teach for twelve years. Regarding these, the study and examinations of 241 schools prior to the Earthquake Rule have not yet been completed, and the efforts of the remaining 204 schools have not been initiated. Only four buildings were bought into the programme, and there are still many schools across the province where they teach bilateral education. In return for his contribution to the province of Tekirdağ, the state treasure, he expects the government to make the investments he deserves, and I wish him good morning.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0307par0345	On the other proposal of the same nature, Brent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0308par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the Fifth Amendment of the Law Proposal of 705 rows. The 5th article is about tax -- my dear friend just spoke -- conducting notifications in electronics. Actually, it's a matter that needs to be arranged a long time ago. Of course, we had to go into automation. It's very important. It's the right arrangement. Like I said, we'd like it done sooner. Whether it's this time of night or this time of night, it's better to speak some truth about the tax. I'll tell you this: Tax is a very important institution, which shows the right to sovereignty of the state, but when we look at the tax figures in Turkey, unfortunately, there are major challenges. Now, our population has reached 78 million, close to 78 million, according to the latest count. How many voters do we have? 55-56 million, soon to be clear for these elections. If we have 55-56 million voters, that's the least of our population over 18 years old, 55-56 million. So our taxpayer has to be more or less proportional to that, right? But the number of taxpayers in Turkey is unfortunately very, very, very, very, very low. So if you include government employees, employees, workers, about 10 to 12 million, and I've been repeating it in every budget for years -- unfortunately, there's not a decent increase in taxpayer numbers. Unregistered is too wide, we can't seem to prevent off the books, we can't raise the tax base. It's a tax-based establishment. People have to be aware when they pay taxes. Everyone pays taxes, Turkish citizens pay taxes at the moment of their birth; they pay taxes because of the water they drink; they pay taxes because of the electricity they burn; they pay taxes because of natural gas, but they don't realize it when they pay taxes. He's been told a while ago, he's paid indirect taxes, he needs to pay direct taxes, and he needs to be aware of that, and he needs to be aware of that. Such a problem exists in Turkey, indirect taxes are very high; this is a distorted tax situation and is a major challenge. Now, the Plan and Budget Commission has had a bill for the merger of revenue and institutional tax for two years, waiting, waiting two years. We're doing a tax arrangement in each bag of legislation, and there are 4-5 tax regulations here, unfortunately, these are informal approaches, in terms of taxes, that's not how you approach an important institution like taxes. Look, me, again, let me tell you the active number of taxpayers who left the resensor: 1 million 768 000 in 2001, while the number of taxpayers with income tax was 1,768 000 in February 2015. The income tax is not increasing the number of active taxpayers, there is no decent increase. There's a slight increase in the number of active taxpayers, from 5655,000 to 767 thousand, there's a bit of increase, but the added value tax shows both, a far more important indicator; 2 million 870 thousand in 2001, 14 years in between, and 2 million 383. 2 million 870 thousand to 2 million 383,000 to the value of the value tax. After that, the tax administration was successful, the Finance Ministry was successful... Where is the success? I'll give you other income tax, stop tax, active taxpayer numbers, real estate equity, and they don't have any meaningful increases, and all of that, for example, the Social Security Agency is also involved in all of the businesses. They get bonuses, the Treasury gets taxes. There are abnormal differences, abnormal differences in the provinces, inconsistencies. There's no way to figure out why it's being put together and not created a shared database. So much money is being paid; computers, automation is being paid, supposedly training, a joint database is still not being created, it can't be avoided off the record. After that, the number of taxpayers or the number of jobs in social security will not increase, there will be no meaningful increase, and we will still be dealing with this despite the increase in populations. For him, I care about it. In other substances, the number of taxpayers is not increasing according to the counties. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm going to continue with the samples that show that it's gone down. I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0309par0359	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-23sit10spe0310par0360	I will submit the same motions to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0310par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 81st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the same two proposals on Article 5 of the Law Proposal of 705 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of law 705 rows be added to Law 213 after Article 132 to add Article 132/A to the article 132/A, in its second paragraph, "all sorts of things, including the Internet." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 705, is 6th. We propose and propose that the "destroyed" clause in the article be changed into "destroyed taxpayer." Mehmet Günal Alim Lighting Lightning Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Bulent Belen S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Manisa Free Special. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. İzzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan of Rahmi Love Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk Gökhan Good morning Article 132/A below has been added to Article 132 in Article 213. MADDE 132/A-Court results can also be registered with the "disposal receipt" which is the same as the roll call receipt in Article 131 of the Law at the polling site. This receipt is signed by an electronic signature tool, which has been checked or signed by its authority. A form is signed on a unique code that represents the roll call receipt and guarantees that the roll-call receipt cannot be changed if the roll call is not signed by electronic signature tools. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to determine the shape and content of the forms and content of the forms mentioned in the first joke recorded electronically, to determine the procedures and basis for signing them through code, electronic signatures or other security devices, to send them to all interested persons in the electronic information tool and environment, including the Internet, and to identify other methods and bases of elimination activities that will be conducted electronically." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0311par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0310par0034	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0312par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0310par0036	Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0313par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we welcome you to share our views on the number 705 bag of legislation on its 6th Amendment. Now, the arrangement, of course, is in the effort to express a modern approach to tax collection, but there are so many errors in Turkey's taxation system that we are in no position to talk about or waste time on the Internet. Now, we all know that because you don't get enough taxes on capital gains, you're burdened with consumer taxes, in other words, because you don't get taxes from the winner, and that's what completely eliminates tax justice. Here's the added value tax, S.E.T.V. In the budget you're bringing in, you're expecting a $94 billion collection from the EVV, and then you can come back to us and tell us about your proposal for a fair taxation system. You're not left with horizontal and vertical tax justice, you're in an unregistered economy, and there's widespread tax evasion, but there are other features of this era, my friends. This is a time when you do everything by hand to eliminate the Court's control. So, why are you avoiding court control? Here's the reason. Of course, I don't mean all the lawmakers here, but some of the companies, the experts in your business, were aware of what the Court was doing and tried to stop it. Because the Court saw that the Ministry of Finance's Central Compromise Commission was erasing tariffs. So, who are the tax collectors? For example, you deleted the $424 million tax on Genghis Construction. Why are you erasing the tax on Genghis Construction? He's going to throw $100 million into the Morning-ATV pool for you. Would he throw money away for free otherwise? You're going to give him an unfair profit from public tenders, you're going to erase his due tax, and he's going to throw a small portion of his income in front of you as pool money. Here's the order, you've come to us, the tax arrangement, the Internet, so it's going to be like this. Look at the arrangement you've brought us with the 6th article. Electromed, you deleted the $139m tax on the Canal. Colonel, you know very well that you've erased the Colonel's $100 million tax from New Dawn again. You have deleted the 23 million lira tax on Construction and thus the total tax revenue deleted is 608 million liras. Now, my dear friends, I once again say: how far can you get from the Court's audit by missing all these regulations, by running the Ministry of Finance's Central Compromise Commission, the government's money in pursuit of companies? And my final promise is that we are all watching conversations between Bulent Arinc and Melih Gökçek. I'll give you just one number: Ankara Metropolitan Municipality is a ten-year consolidation budget of 45 billion liras. For ten years, only 828 million liras is the money that Meleh Gravity can reserve for the 40km subway line. So we're talking about a city that can't split 50/50 of its budget into the subway line, can't open a subway in ten years, and has to charge $3 billion more from the Ministry of Transport. So, let's ask: who split the $828 million into the subway and took away the remaining $44 billion? Here, the investigations that need to begin will, of course, give us the answer. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0314par0046	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 705, is 6th. We offer and propose that the declaration of destruction in the article be replaced in the form of the deceased. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0315par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0314par0053	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0316par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0314par0055	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0317par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good night. Today the capital was staged in the Battles of Ankara Gökçek and Ariç. But what a war, unspeakable words, serious, serious accusations and false insults. If it had been used from this bench, it would have required a punishment for warning, reprimanding, and even expelling from the General Assembly according to our Civil Code. Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker Arinc does not approve of President Erdogan's involvement in every government's business, which has clearly made the government controversial, but irresponsible Erdoğan has said, "There is a government in this country, Mr. President, by betting that his political pressure on the responsible Davutoglu is not good." Wow, you're the one who said, "Is it you who defied Erdogan?" Recently, the AKP was unable to find a suitable playground for the evolution of the AKP, but in all matters other than jobs, Gökçek signalled from the illegal nomadic palace and fired an opposition flare against the Deputy Prime Minister of his government. The fashion charge of the day also dived into Mr. Arinc on charges of parallelism until he asked him to resign. So far it can be said: "Sir, why is the internal affairs of the AKP your business?" Of course, it is. There's no mistake in the analogy. They say, "I don't know who's had a run-in, but there's another one in between." Couldn't it be the child support of the in-between, barely living citizen? If that's the case, it's not just about us, it's about the entire political institution. Then someone will tell you: "Go and fight in your headquarters." This fight, this fight, tomorrow's stock exchange, the exchange, all the markets, the citizens' pockets will be damaged, the country will have another AKP tension. Dear lawmakers, there are also the answers of Arinc. The Assembly is not only interested in opposition, but also in the judiciary and the courts. See, what the Deputy Prime Minister says is that I'm sitting in the lap of the parallel structure, but he's the one sitting in the lap of the parallel structure. Dear AKP MPs, you have relieved thousands of police, judges, prosecutors, thousands of rulers, officers of the parallel structure; you have exiled them in snow, winter; you have expelled people from their homes, from their homelands. Either your Deputy Prime Minister or your Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, in this case, turns out to be a parallel maker. Why did you hide this matter from the public? What was the crime of these people you labeled? Arinc claims that he sold Ankara to a parsel parallel structure, that it should be called by a more accurate name -- zoning corruption -- in accordance with their wishes. Besides, he doesn't think it's appropriate for Ankara Metropolitan Mayor to be a member of parliament, as well as for his son to be a member of parliament. He accuses you of being insolent, rude -- excuse me -- of barking -- that there is someone behind the sky, and there is someone behind the sky, and I will reveal it after June 8th. Dear AKP lawmakers, you can't just say those words out of courtesy, or even offensive insults. The Turkish Penal Code has many articles that concern the Turkish Criminal Code, including corruption of the state, unlawfully attracting public land, zoning and tender corruption, and calling on the republic's prosecutors to serve in this regard. Words inviting the Ministry of Interior to proceed through the Constitutional suspension clause. These allegations must be brought to light on behalf of the Ankarans and our nation. You know, if you're thirsty, you're a valued AKP MPs, an accomplice, or if you're waiting in the line of duty, you're under the burden of now. It may be appropriate for you to wait until June 8th, but a man who runs a city of $5.5 million, who uses trillions of dollars of public resources every day, using public authority, should not be sitting there for a minute. And my word to Mr. Arinc, since you knew that he was engaged in corruption, and you've made it public, it's no longer your conscience or public conscience to wait any longer. You have to share everything you know with the prosecutors. Otherwise, like concealing the crime, I say you're committing another crime, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0318par0065	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0319par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to present a technical matter regarding the matter we're discussing with the government and the General Assembly. In parallel with the development of information and communication technologies, a modern tax law is included in the name of electronic roll call. We find this arrangement positive as the Republican People's Party. However, I think there is a contradiction as a result of the matter being compared to the 131, which is still in effect, which regulates the roll call. According to this clause, the electronic roll call can also be done with an electronic roll call. This receipt can be edited with a wet signature, in case an electronic roll call wasn't signed by the person who did the roll call or the man in charge, that's how I see it. Now, the 131st article of the Tax Code states that the roll call in the classic roll call will be made with a roll call. After being dominated by the item referred to as two copies of the receipt, the roll call will be signed by members of the head or senior staff or police if the poll is not signed by their supervisor or authorized man. Now, in this article of the proposal, he's talking about not signing the attendance slip. So what's the point of not signing the roll call? Doesn't the other side sign or withdraw or sign at all? If he doesn't sign at all, the arrangement brought here with a wet signature is insufficient. In this case, the classic roll call must be organised in Article 131 of the Tax Code. I think there's a discrepancy between 131 and this clause of the proposal. I think it would be a better arrangement if the Minister reconsidered. So in this article, for example, if there's an unsigned withdrawal, if it's not signed, there's no signing, there's no signing, there's no signing. The 131st article of the Tax Code separates them, but I don't see them being separated here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0320par0070	Thank you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose to add and propose to Law 213 after Article 132/A, including the second paragraph in the second paragraph, which envisions adding the article 132/A to come after Article 213. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0321par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0320par0077	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0322par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0320par0079	I'm reading the reason: The change is intended to be carried out through widespread communication networks. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of the 705th amendment to Article 3 of the Public Contraction Act, dated 4/1/2002, shall be removed from the proposal text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Mehmet Günal Alim Ilm Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Erkan Akçay Cemaletdin Lightning İzzet Cetin Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0323par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0320par0103	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0324par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0320par0105	In order, I am first reading HDP's motive: With this clause, the purchases of goods and services from the Turkish Anonymous Agency of Anadolu Agency on all programmes, news, production and broadcasts will be exempted from the scope of public tender Act 4734. Although the TRT and Anadolu Agency have a public legal body, they have been employed as private channels and agencies of the ruling parties and the government. These antidemocratic and arbitrary practices will be provided without end, creating greater problems in public interest and democracy. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who wants a word on the same proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0325par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Dear friends, this is the 7th article, which, as I just mentioned in my speech on the chapter, is a provision for the Public Contraction Act to again make a change in Turkey's Radio Television Directorate to buy services from the Anadolu Agency on all programmes, news, production and broadcasts. And here, of course, is a public tender law, which, as always, is once again perpendicular to the offer of this bag. The second is that both RTÜK TRT and Anadolu Agency, where it will be served, have been constantly using funding from the Prime Ministerate Press Information General Directorate for many years to survive. Now, when we call it TRT, it's a public institution that's been operating since 1964 to carry out radio and television broadcasts for the state. Of course, it's a public institution, but it's literally a power trumpet. Although citizens continue to publish with their taxes, their actions are an institution that only favours power. In particular in recent years -- not in recent years -- especially in the recent local elections and the election for the presidency in August -- one hour and forty minutes to power, while one minute to the other island was too partial to the third island. Now, of course, the TRT will get service from there, but does it need service? For this, if you look at the structure of TRT (TRT) today, it is an institution with 14 channels, 5 nationals, 5 regionals, 3 internationals, 3 local radio stations, and many other broadcasts. Turkey broadcasts to the world and to Turkey. Dear friends, the Prime Minister's Office of Press Publishing Information -- the budget in 2014 -- has transferred 70 per cent of its 197 million budget to the Anadolu Agency, which is 144m euros. In eight years, the source from the Prime Ministerate Press Information General Directorate has exceeded 715m liras. So every year, the Court also criticises these figures. Now, the fact that the TRT (TRT) has been made an exception to the Public Contraction Act as an organization to buy services to the Anadolu Agency raises other questions. What does the Anadolu Agency do? If you look at him, dear friends, the Anadolu Agency, if you read the news that only he serves, you might think that Turkey is a country where the happiest people in the world live, where everything is a rose. It's the state's official news agency, but from the news of the Anadolu Agency, you'll recognize them by their exiles, firing employees, and by unfairly firing employees, as a power trumpet, rather than by their actions. Of course, you're making an arrangement here that makes 28 million liras worth of revenues and costs 105 million dollars, and now you're making a decision to buy services from that institution. The goal here is to direct funds directly from the state budget to an institution that's really badly managed to ensure that those resources are misused, squandered. That's not the right approach. And you're also setting up an anti-competitive understanding against the general rules of commerce. You must have no doubt that this arrangement will make the Anatolian Agency and the TRT (TRT) much more controversial in the future. Would such an arrangement be suitable for the AKP? Yes, of course it does, because almost all the expenses he's made and the arrangements he's made are appropriate because they're not different. He says it won't do anyone any good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0326par0120	Yes, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0327par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've told you as we speak, this is one of the most forbidden items of this law proposal. You're mixing the Harrams into the goods. I told you because the revenues collected from the public's bills are again in a different form... and Mr. Cetin has just said, 715 million in eight years, but in one year, the damage in 2013 is 105 million. Now, I mean, is that really necessary? It's a habit, you have to go around such a law. We ask you, "What is this? " From the beginning, make our friends growl. So what are you gonna get? We asked the assistant director general of TRT (TRT), and he said: "We have planned to receive services, these are going beyond normal direct imports. What is the limit of your direct buy-in? ▪ 7.7 billion 720 million or so. 7.7 million now with the current money. So he's already got access to $7 million or 7.7 million directly. So, we say, what are you going to get? So what does the Anadolu Agency sell, what is its service? What is it, sir, that the English channel will be set up? Hey, TRT, why don't you run that TRT 3, give me the House's broadcasts, and then get up and publish them in English? Do you remember TRT int?
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0328par0127	What's that got to do
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0327par0128	Do you remember TRT int. Was there any news in English? I did. So who hung up, who hung up? Do you have any friends back there? Who hung up? Turn off the channel that broadcasts English in TRT and then just make TRT Avaz and remove the English part, and now it says: I'm going to broadcast in English. How many reporters do you have out there? How many precincts does he have reporters? Do you have to send a reporter there, and then there's that? There are international agencies. We're looking at all of them, and it says, "I'm going to buy service from there. I asked myself, "Who is the most paid agency in the world for your annual subscription?" Our friends are looking at it. Well, we're looking at an agency with $20 million in annual revenues, and it gets a subscription fee of $20,000 or so. So, we're asking here, well, what's your income? Well, then we took it by force from his mouth with tweezers; 28 million dollars comes, 111 million goes. Is this Ali Baba's farm? Isn't this an anonymous company? He's constantly being criticized, looked at, written down, and where will he come from? Now, do you know what you're doing with this stuff? You're laundering that incompetence with money that's been cut off from the nation, cut off from the electric bills, and you're shutting them down instead of exposing the responsible. Well, now, wouldn't that be something? So you said you were going to run Turkey like an anonymous company, what's the harm in that? The anonymous company is running, the anonymous company is losing it. Who's gonna pay for the damage? Guys, look, we really don't know what we're doing. We're asking, so what would a company with a total of 28 million revenues sell you, and what would you transfer 100 million? I mean, can that happen? We showed him the way. Its partner is the Treasury, it happened in other institutions, and when it's damaged, you go to capital, you transfer money directly, we discuss it separately. We'll discuss the damage again, but now we're going to get up and transfer money from TRT, money from people's electric bills, money from the bandrolls, which has two things: first of all, that's damage. The second option is the transmission of the outside publications that TRT has always done. What will the Anadolu Agency do when he can't provide all of those services? A confederate company will use him as a subcontractor, and will transfer his money from the TRT with services he will receive from there. Once again, on election night, we're going to transfer money to someone like outside production. Look, he transferred almost all of it to these outside productions in just one year, in return for the cuts he received from TRT. It's almost one-on-one, all transferred to foreign investments. We're looking at it, and it's weirdly in the period of Ibrahim Hawk... at first, look, you don't have that much in your power, in 2003-2004, but we're looking at it from 2007, it's a hundred-odd 400; 1.5; 2, 3. I mean, how come there's no TRT man with thousands of employees, 6,000, 7,000 civil servants, and again, there's seven to eight thousand contract status employees here? And about 5,000 of them are friends with producer status. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What do these people do? Or we'll give it to him. So he says this clause must be removed from the proposal text, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-23sit11spe0329par0135	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
