tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked for the appointment of those who received a certificate of employment and vocational advice. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In 2011, I promised to share with you the problem that concerns 15,000 young people who have attended the course in the business and vocational counselling system, but have not been appointed in years. I salute you all. According to official figures in Turkey, unemployment is even higher than the year of the crisis, which you have not dropped from your mouth, 2001. In 2001, unemployment is 8.4 per cent; in 2014, TÜİK is 10.9 per cent higher. This is a picture of a more severe crisis than 2001. In fact, it's much higher, so you can look around and see it. Young unemployment rates are more than 20 percent, almost one out of four young people are unemployed, and if you look at college graduates, one out of three young people. According to the professional counselling system, which was put into practice in 2011 with all its shortcomings, 3,500 of the 17,500 candidates with KPS scores were subject to nine weeks of courses, and 2,817 after the course won the exam, and all of them were employed in April and June 2012. Later, some universities also earned the right to take these exams. In the introduction of these exams, the student has to make expenses that amount to about $1.5 or 2 billion, including tuition fees, examination fees, accommodation. To date, 27,000 graduates and graduate students have received the title of business and occupational advisor by winning exams. Sadly, these advisers themselves, who have taken on the task of eliminating the unemployment of educated young people, have fallen into unemployment. The main jobs of counselors are universities, municipalities, social welfare foundations and İSKUR. Employment and vocational counselling offices have been opened in universities and municipalities, and 3,823 people have been employed as consultants in İSKUR. So far, so good. However, the MPs, municipalities, and universities have appointed temporary workers from subcontractors from these offices, as long as the period is complete. Social welfare agencies have signed a protocol with the Ministry of Labor to provide counseling. There are 973 foundations, but instead of running pros who have grown up in these foundations, they continue to go on the road of amateur service with their own employees. We dream of a growing, developing, working, prosperous Turkey. You say it everywhere, but only 3,823 of the 8.200 staff of İSKUR are occupational advisors. Germany, with the same population as us, has 100,000 business advisers, and we only have 3.823. Thanks to your wrong policies, you have formed an army of 10,000 unemployed people, named after the business adviser. You're talking about 2023, we're going to reduce unemployment to 5 percent. So how does that work? On the other hand, universities continue to open vocational counselling courses with high wages. You forgive the children of the nation - they continue to pluck. The result is zero to nothing, zero to nothing. Whether their money's gone or their hopes are being tampered with? Is that what you people are for? Getting people's sons crushed by government institutions? Is it so hard that we can't get into colleges, so don't open these courses? The Minister of Labor, on the one hand, we've received enough business advisors, no need. He says, on the other hand, he's having officers in the institution get job counselling certificates, and it's being declared that they've been assigned to job counselling staffs, and they're not even going to KPSS. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy does the same thing. Their own officers are provided with three or four days of courses, and they are allowed to process and process the ICRU codes. Can it be the Ministry of Social Policy, who has no rights, justice, work, and lack of heightened sensitivity? We're warning the government, either hire these trainees you've secured employment for, they're expecting you to do this, they've asked specifically to have this conversation, don't open these courses that have become a money trap to our universities, don't play with the dreams of more young people. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. The second non-responsored statement is owned by Kopeeli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, who wants to talk about the problems of Dilovası district ofYepeeli Province. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have taken an off-the-book promise. I salute our High Council. Dilovasi again, on the agenda of cancer, I'm here again, but I won't get tired of saying, I hope you'll review your sanctions, your arrangements. I'd like to make a statement according to the TİK data, valued lawmakers. The death rate is 21 per cent due to the cancer in Turkey, 6 per cent in Kopeli, 33 per cent in Dilova. The percentage of asthma and respiratory disease in the Dilovasi region is 1.5 times higher than Turkey. It's out of control, unplanned, unsupervised industrialization. One third of the chemical and paint industry in Turkey is in this region, one third of the metallurgy industry in this region. Sadly, after 2002, we were able to discover that industrialisation had a negative effect on human health. When deaths occurred due to environmental pollution after 2002, a parliamentary research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was ordered to be established. The parliamentary research commission, with its opposition and power, came to Dilovasi, did research, studied, and said in its report: "This region is satisfied with industry. There should be no new industrial investment in this region anymore. He has set up a 29-point report, saying that the current industry must be reviewed in order not to harm itself or the environment. Since 2002, you have been in power both in the area and in the region. What did you do? As the House Research Commission said, you took precautions? No, you did the opposite. Look, I'd like to remind you that just north of Dilovasi, you've built a municipal landfill storage area. Next door, you've brought the elimination, hacking and storage facility of every coal plant in the area. Not enough -- what happened after 2006 -- you've established four new OSBs in the northern winds of Dilova, again: IMES, Machinemakers, Chemists and Marbles. You have played with the health of the people living in Dilovah, and now it is not enough that the village of Köces to the north of Hereke, Tepecik village, and Dilovas north of the forest ministry are giving a area of 1,500,000 square feet to the city of Alexandria. What's he giving it away for? It says: "I allow you to build all the industrial waste of the region, all the solid waste disposal facilities." It means that I will continue to poison the people of Dilova with this facility I will build in this region. Have a little compassion, put your hands on your conscience. You've already evacuated two neighborhoods because of an unplanned construction in the area; the houses were taken because they were trapped in the industry of Yıldıztown and Fatih neighbourhood; and the people were evacuated from there. Now, what are you doing with this solid waste disposal facility? You collect industrial waste in the area, collect organic inorganic materials in the region, collect medical waste, collect scraping tires and burn them. What it means is that you're causing new gases, new chemicals, new toxic substances, to come down on Dilovasi. Now you want us to keep quiet about it. I am a man who lives in the region, and my children will live in it, and I will never allow you to poison people in Dilovasi until my tongue turns. If your intention is to evacuate the Dilovah, say it honestly, we'll sit down, we'll talk from the beginning. Look, I want to remind you of what you have to do. There's no proper route in Dilova, no cinema, no theater, no cultural centers, no social donuts, no people meeting the beach, no beach arrangements. Now, if you don't do anything about it, and you bring the industrial waste of this area back in here and you pour poison on the Dilovasi, and I want you to empathize, and I want you to give up this solid waste disposal plant in Dilova, if you don't want those kids to get sick tomorrow and die, if you don't want people in Dilovase to get sick and have cancer. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from İzmir MP Rifat Sait, who wants to talk about the voting process of our citizens living abroad. Here you go, Mr. Sait.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the general election on June 7th and especially the part of the elections abroad. I salute you and our beloved nation on the screen. Today is also the anniversary of NATO's air operation, which was launched as a result of the persecution of the Serbs, the sister country, the people of Kosovo. In this air operation, the Turkish Armed Forces' jets and heroic pilots were involved, and this ground operation accelerated Kosovo's independence process. Mr. President, I'd like to issue some numbers and statistics on the election. About 52.9 million citizens in the country, 2.8 million abroad, and about 55-56 million citizens will vote in total. The number of voters abroad corresponds to 5 per cent of the total number of voters. This corresponds to about five percent and 28 to 30 MPs, but unfortunately, that's not the case. In 2007, the voting rate was 8.9 per cent abroad, 5 per cent in 2011 and 18.9% in the last 2014 presidential elections. About 2,8 million of our citizens abroad were able to cast about 530,000 votes. With Law 6304, which was issued on May 9, 2012, our citizens abroad can use their votes if they are registered. That's a pretty good service. So they can vote in 54 countries, 109 of our foreign diplomatic missions. The voting process abroad begins on May 8th. Again, the voting process will begin at the customs gates starting on 8 May and will continue until 7 June. In the meantime, I'd like to make a very important reminder for our foreign voters. March 27th, three days from Friday, it's 17 o'clock. Until 00, if you didn't do it, you must register your foreign voter register. You can't vote if you're not registered. March 27th is the last day for updates. Don't say no, because that's why some politicians in this country couldn't vote. That's why it's ▪www. Ysk. Gov. You will be asked to enter and register. It's a civic duty, and it's a constitutional right to vote. To our citizens abroad, you must apply to the nearest foreign diplomatic mission in your country or to the Ministry of Homeland Population and Citizenship General Directorate and fill in your statement form here and register. In this year's election, the dating system has been removed, and there will be no dating system. Our citizens abroad have been the most victimised in the 2014 presidential election, the dating system, and the fact that there are 47.6 per cent of the vote on this subject is not used at a rate of 47.6 per cent, which is why it is due to the setbacks of the dating system. Another reason for the lowest rate of voting abroad is political disinterest with 13.9%. In this regard, the work of the President of the Turkish abroad and also the Supreme Election Board has been done to address this gap, and nearly 600,000 materials have been prepared. The low rate of voting abroad has a negative impact on the AK PARTY. Why? Because when we look at the vote abroad, there's a clear advantage of the AK PARTY. In the 2002 elections, 32.9 per cent of the international vote came to the EC PARTY, 56.75 per cent came to the EC PARTY in 2007, 61 per cent in the 2011 elections. Why is the AK PARTY getting high votes abroad? Because our foreign Turkish presidency, TİKA, foreign ministry, our Yunus Emre Institute, TRT, our Ministry of Economics, also provides important services abroad. There's no stopping abroad, we call it. When we look at the 60 per cent vote rate of the EC PARTY abroad, almost 20 per cent of our 2.8 million citizens do not vote, of course, is a major damage to the EC PARTY. We specifically ask them to vote. Finally, on what dates will be voted abroad, I would like to inform you on: 16 May 31 May, 16 May, 16 days in the United States, 19 days in Norway on 13 May 31 May, 28 May, 4 days in Romania and Russia, 29 May, 3 days in Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Turkmenistan and Greece, for two days in the United Arab Emirates, Britain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Algeria, Algeria, Kazakhstan, Macedonia, Macedonia, Kosovo, one day in Kosovo, New Zealand, one in May 31 May, one in Kosovo, New Zealand, one in New Zealand, two days in Thailand. Again, these are the most games used during 8 May 31st: Germany, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Switzerland and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the June 7th elections were good for our country and our nation, and I think that these elections will benefit the AK PARTY in particular, and from now on, hopefully, if we come with 400 MPs, the ranks will be a little more frequent on the right side. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you. Mr. President, if there is a minister here, if there is a Council of Ministers and a member responsible for managing Turkey, I would like to present the two issues to their attention. Sir, unfortunately in universities, universities, faculty, separatist terrorist organizations continue their terrorist movements against people who take the test there. Unfortunately, this kind of organization at our universities, frankly, has come to a point where education and learning freedom can be avoided. In this framework, Thursday's attack by the marginal, separatist organization at the Faculty of Political Information, was suspended due to attacks on students who would take the exam later, but the threat continued. It is the responsibility of the government and the rectory to ensure that these students take the test. If anything actual happens to these students, they'll be responsible. Therefore, in this framework, I urge both the police and the rectory to take the necessary security measures to take the test and take the necessary measures to ensure that the right to study is not victimised. Developments of the process leading to the martyrdom of Fırat Yilmaz Çakıroğlu, whom we live at the University of Aegean, have greatly disturbed Turkey and its youth. In this regard, the state's will must be used for these structures and obstructions. Besides, a parent just called, a father called. He has a son in the 11th grade at Police College, and because of the closure of Police College, his child's body is suffering from injuries. He entered with 470 points, and now go to places where he can be entered with 270 points. Unfortunately, those who have opened the way for deputy commissioners with a few months of courses for those in the 3rd and 4th grade are taking away the rights of those in the 11th grade. In this regard, a father cries out, saying, "This is persecution, you are in the way of my son." So, in this regard, I made it my duty to convey this parable to the blind eye, to the deaf ear, to the cry of your father -- he just called -- as an interpreter. This persecution must be abandoned. It is the government's duty to uphold the rights of these people. I've been promised to deliver these to the government. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. 1- The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, John Boehner, President of the US House of Representatives, received a formal visit to the United States from 23 March to 29 March 2015 to form a delegation of political parties, including the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, who was accepted by the Grand Assembly of Turkey in 17/2/2015. [[3/1754]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek received a formal visit to the United States between 23 March and 29 March 2015, with a parliamentary delegation, with the invitation of US House Speaker John Boehner. Under Article 2 of the Memorial Law, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are presented to the General Assembly's information. 1- Reha Testerç Ankara MP 2- Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkş Ankara MP 3- Kemal Ekinci Bursa MP 4- Şaban Dynasty Cakarya MP It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Employment, education, health, social services, sports, culture, adequate income, infrastructure, etc. to ensure that disabled people participate effectively in social life without discrimination. I move that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code to determine issues in areas such as these, and to determine measures to be taken. 03/12/2012 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] UNESCO studies show that 14 per cent of the population in our country is disabled. Some of the disabled were born to be disabled because of work accidents and traffic accidents. On the other hand, we have a large number of citizens who have been injured and injured in 30 years of conflict in Turkey. In our country, many of the problems of our millions of disabled citizens to participate in social, economic and cultural life, including employment and education, have yet to be resolved. Many disabled individuals are unable to satisfy their needs on their own, depend on family members and are in need of care. In our country, disabled citizens are not considered in the phases of planning and running general and local services. As a matter of fact, the Interim 2nd Amendment Law of 5378, dated 01/07/2005. "All existing official structures belonging to public institutions and institutions, all available roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports areas and other social and cultural infrastructures and structures made by real and corporate people and all kinds of structures that have been available to the disabled within seven years from the time this law is in effect." The sentence was not carried out for seven years, but was extended one more year by Bag 6353. Being disabled in Turkey is as much a problem as it is, and it is subject to certain measures to prove its disability. In Turkey, the disabled must be documented that they are 40 per cent disabled in health care institutions for the benefit of the state. The ILO Convention, however, considers it a work law and a work accident 11 per cent disabled. On the other hand, the lack of information, the availability of health care, the economic burden, medical incompetence, and so on, the disabled are not sufficient, on time, and are unable to receive permanent health care. About 47 per cent of disabled persons are not treated in any way due to their disability. The equipment used by disabled citizens due to their disability is covered by the SGC for a period of time. The disabled who have been dependent on these devices all their life have been conditioned to pay for the repairs themselves. According to ISKUR, the number of disabled workers in public institutions is 12,326 and the number of disabled workers in the private sector is 73,719. In contrast, according to Article 30 of Business Law 4857, the public has a total of 24,758 disabled workers, including 1,232 in the private sector, 23.526 in the private sector. According to data from August 2011, there are 20,829 disabled officers employed in the disabled quota of public institutions. The deficit of the disabled officer is 23.360. As it turns out, about 50,000 disabled staffs are available. Compared to the practices in developed countries on education for disabled people, our country is far behind the level it should be. The ability of disabled persons to obtain education and vocational requirements is limited. In recent years, the belief that special educational centres, such as mushrooms, have been exploited by disabled people and their families, is common in society. Both educational centres and training programmes are inadequate, with the number of disabled and the policy on the creation of experienced staffs to participate in the education of disabled persons. According to the rate of disability in Turkey, a small fee is paid every three months, which corresponds to an average of 243-365 euros per month. Given the increase in basic consumption costs and rent costs per year, it is clear that three months will not be possible for disabled citizens to participate in social life as independent individuals. It is important to establish Parliamentary research commissions to identify problems in areas such as employment, education, health care, social services, sports, culture, adequate income, infrastructure and other measures to ensure that disabled persons participate effectively in social life without discrimination and effectively. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Public personnel face many problems, no matter what legal status or employment arrangement they are committed to. In order to determine the problems of public employees referred to as people of 4/C, and to find solutions, we propose the need to open Parliamental research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Under the AKP's neoliberal economic understanding, policies have been implemented for ten years along with various regulations to reduce labourers' real wages and social security to ensure that the capital class gains more profits. The state official status restored by the AKP occurs in four ways in social life. Public employees in 4/A, 4/B, 4/C and state institutions are facing the deepening of their problems day after day with status differences. In addition to the privatisation processes provided by the AKP, these policies, which are broad enough for the adoption of real wages and social rights of public employees in favour of the employer, are based on the economic challenges of the 4/C victims, as well as on the laws imposed on the legal rights of the entire labour force. Without guarantees of employment until 4/C employees retire, the Council of Ministers each year determines the maximum number of 4/Cs to be employed for that year, and because they are excluded from the union organisation, they do not have as much luck as the other employees. The social and autonomy rights of workers from 4/C have a weak quality, while the obligation of their contracts to be signed by the Council of Ministers each year eliminates earned rights. There are serious problems among the 4/C public workers, whose numbers are up to 50,000, who are especially subject to the privatisation process. In some privatised institutions, employees were given a chance to pass through another institution with the same rights, while in some privatized institutions, the recognition involved a major wrong in the sense of equality and justice. It is important for these public employees, who accept 4/C status so as not to lose their job, to address some of the problems of healthcare workers, to understand the injury created by the AKP's hand. Health workers 4/C are deprived of return capital, additional income and seniority, and social rights, such as road money and food allowance. In addition, in terms of 4/C, the difference between a public official who graduated from the university and a public employee who graduated from high school, regardless of their educational status is the type that can't afford education. As part of the AKP's Health Transformation Project, public hospital units have been transferred, as well as health workers' concerns about job security. In particular, the initiative for health workers working at 4/C status to be given to public hospital units management of their annual renewed contracts raises serious problems, given that public hospital troops are under the influence of politics. Each year, after political decisions, thousands of 4/Cs are at risk of rescinding their contract of employment and replacing them with close to power. Socialised employees must be given the right to strike by 4/A; 4/B, 4/C and subcontractor employees must have the same social security and rights as 4/A employees. With action, the problems of public employees from 4/C, among the major problems of the country, are the need to be a social state, to be equal and fair. It is imperative that a parliamentary investigation be opened within this scope. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The living and working conditions of miners, the most difficult profession in the world, who offer underground mines in the service of mankind, are getting heavier and heavier every day. In particular, business accidents have become mass deaths due to frequent mining spills or flu explosions. In order to improve the working conditions of the miners, we propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine and determine the reasons for their problems and measures to be taken. 3/12/2012 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] 5) Murat Bozlak (Adana) [[?]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Seven stories beneath the ground, with great sacrifice, with patience, with great effort, coal, copper, gold, silver, Nike, pipe, knowledge mines, miners' lives and working conditions are getting heavier every day. In particular, business accidents have become mass deaths due to frequent mining spills or flu explosions. According to one study, 43, 92 in 2009, 105 in 2010, 77 in 2011, 27 miners lost their lives in the first five months of 2012. There are some mining accidents between 2002 and 2012 that need to be remembered. Erzurum lost his life in the flu explosion of 8 Karaman Ermenek in the cave-in in Erzurum, 10 in Karaman Ermenek, 3 in the flu explosion in Çorum Bayat, 19, 11 miners in Edirne Keshan, 11 in the cave-in in Kahmatahya Gediz, 17 in Balıkesir Dursunbey, 17 in the flu explosion in Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa, 19 in Zonguldak, 3 in Edirne Keshan. The bodies of nine miners in Afshin are still buried. According to mining engineers' research, 97.7% of the mines in Turkey are SME, 83.8% of the employees work in SME-based businesses. 81 per cent of mining accidents live in COBI-based businesses. 91 percent of accidents occur because of the collapse, which is the easiest to prevent. Given the progress and progress in science and technology, it's unacceptable that in modern times collapses can't be prevented. Although Zonguldak tried to avoid the death of 30 workers who lost their lives in the mine drain with the Prime Minister's "destiny," the encounter of miners who died more collectively than a few deaths in the statistics of business accidents reveals the naked truth with "destiny." These are the consequences of the privatisation and subcontractorization practices that have been monitored in recent years, the primordial, slave labor conditions in the mines. The mines are common values made up of millions of years, which cannot be replaced when consumed, therefore have to be planned and run rationally, without the labor of any man or organization, nature offers to humanity. The government's control and protection of these resources, which are the common property of the entire community, is one of its primary tasks. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources operates in charge of the mines. According to 2010 data, there are 7,796 license zones allowed to operate. It has 567 underground businesses, including 250 underground coal fields, and 150 of which were produced in 2009. Apart from coal (metal) there are 317 underground operating areas. The number of mining businesses is greater than the number of licenses that can be found within a license field. The General Directorate of Mining Affairs has three experienced mining engineers under the supervision of underground mining businesses. Other mining and geology engineers participate in the controls of underground businesses if tasked. In addition, it is unlikely that the General Directorate, which has 370 personnel as a 70-plus mining engineer, will be able to carry out employee health and occupational safety checks in around 6,000 mining enterprises throughout Turkey. Mining engineers, which form another foot of control structure in the mines and serve as technical custodians, are also inspecting for the government (public). However, technical custodians are unable to act freely against the employer due to concern about losing their job because their fees are paid by the owner or manager of the mine which has been audited. Therefore, there must be a separate unit in mining businesses with all kinds of physical, technical equipment and adequate personnel to carry out employee health and occupational safety inspections. It is important to establish Parliamentary research commissions in order to determine and determine the reasons for the problems caused by the miners who have made the world's most difficult and meaningful profession, offering their underground resources to the services of humanity and the country, to improve their working conditions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is 18 p.m. Monday (March 30, 2015) of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under parliamentary diplomacy activities on the 100th anniversary of the 1915 events, the official visit of a delegation of lawmakers to Belgium has been approved by the 19/3/2015 decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers, and 98. The visit is submitted to the General Assembly under Article 10 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 24/3/2015 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The agenda on Tuesday (March 24, 2015) is to be placed on the top of the agenda on Tuesday (today) "Personal Affairs on Special Agenda" (11/49) and (11/53) in a joint session of the General Assembly's main proposals on Wednesday (March 25th 2015) to complete their talks on Wednesday (March 25th 2015), and to be held on the basis of Article 99 and 2th Articles of the Constitution, which will be held on the basis of the meeting of the Commission's proposals on Wednesday (March 25, 2015), which will be held on the basis of the "Responsibility of the Commission" and "Responsibility of the Commission," which is part of the Commission's agenda. It's recommended. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/2289) I respectfully request and demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into consideration under Article 37 of the Civil Code. The bidder is Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0010par0259	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs visited President Erdoğan Harp Academys last week and reminded them of the Balyoz case, which was a conspiracy case there, we were all deceived in this case. Ilker Basbug, head of the General Staff, said I was never satisfied with these cases, including those who were in charge of the Turkish Armed Forces. But we remember very well, Mr. Erdogan, in the past, that I am the prosecutor of these cases. The Republican People's Party, at that time, expressed in a very strong way that it violated a universal rule of law, such as the right to a fair trial, which aims to reunite the command level of the Turkish Armed Forces. The Republican People's Party said we are lawyers of these cases. In the face of Mr. Erdogan's membership in the prosecutor's office, we have expressed that we are lawyers of these cases because we believed with all our heart that these cases were unjust, illegal cases. We don't believe in the sincerity of Mr. Erdoğan's speech at the Military Academy last week. So, when the Harp Academy confronted the students, an attitude in the Turkish Armed Forces and in the nation's conscience, which had left these cases so deeply wounded, in order to please them, has not convinced or convinced the students of the Harp Academy of these cases. However, here we are giving the Justice and Development Party a chance. If Mr. Erdogan really has the idea that we've been deceived in these cases, if there really is one shred of this thought, then accept the Law Proposal on the Legal Rights of the Kumpas Victims, which the Republican People's Party has given the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on July 4, 2014, and is now in your presence with the possibility of Article 37 of the Civil Code. It's not enough to say "I'm sorry," it's the law. If it is truly believed that a great mistake was made in this matter... it is wrong to sum up what was done with the word "mistake," in fact those commanders' lives were blackened, their futures were stolen, their hopes were destroyed, they were condemned to darkness, and after five years passed, we were deceived in these cases. Let's accept the Republican People's Party's Proposal of Restitution since 4 July 2014 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Take this motion today, we'll start their talks, if you have any suggestions, we'll arrange that. I'd like to briefly sum up the issues of our proposal. It will be remembered that the unlawfulness of the sledgehammer case was registered on June 18, 2014 by the Constitutional Court, and the court later decided to release people, and in the process that followed, it was discovered that all of those digital data were false. We propose that the date of the Constitutional Court's decision, which started this process, June 18, 2014, be declared the Right to Fair Trial and Freedom Day. There are regulations for rights. People have been suspended from public officials, pensions have been imposed against their will. They will return to their duties at their request, and the time passed will be taken into account in progress, progress and promotion of rank. I can't sum it all up because I don't have the time, but it's an offer for the government to apologize by predicting the extradition of all rights to these commanders. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0011par0266	Thank you. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0012par0269	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have received a pledge from our Istanbul MP, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, to grant the rights of the victims of the plot a refund. I salute you all. Dear friends, people who were taken from their homes at 4:00 a.m., at 5:00 a.m. with a fascist understanding of governance have been victimized, and these people have been framed. These victims -- the republic founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk -- were Republicans, Turkish Armed Forces, patriots, people who wanted this country's undistributable integrity, people who tried to explain the republic's greatness, the republic's virtues, the republic's rallies. But there was an understanding that at five o'clock in the morning, not just the public, but the professors outside the public, especially the professors, all of the professors, including the patriotic scientists, were taken in and taken to a camp like the Nazi camp. In the prisons here, not human -- I beg your pardon -- people did three years, five years under torture, not even animals. Turkey is on its feet, it's going to fight. They said, "It's coming." They said, "They're fighting." For God's sake, how will a scientist, a professor, a professor, do a coup?" Does he have a cannon, a gun, a soldier, or does he have an army? But there was pressure to intimidate them, to drive them away from the republic, to fulfill their own ambitions. In this pressure, the Republican People's Party -- our current Deputy Group President -- said that we would be lawyers for this case, we would be right, Republicans would be released from prison. And indeed, the prosecutors were defeated and the prosecutors blamed others, they won the case as Republican People's Party lawyer, but we couldn't provide extradition. With the bill we're offering, dear friends, you need to have a refund. I was a member of the National Defence Commission last semester, and since then, the Turkish Armed Forces have been given rights to those who were sentenced -- including the February 28th -- to all these. Now, in the High Council, if this bill is accepted, there will be no injustice. This injustice is this: other than the people in the public, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, there are people who are conspiring outside the public. Right now, according to Article 36 of the Constitution, he has unanimously decided that the rights of this conspiracy will be restored, but the Assembly must decide, dear friends. If we do not make this decision, a great injustice will be voted not on the people seeking rights, but on the people seeking rights. Now, the AKP Group will give a test today. As the President said, are you going to fix this injustice or not? We come in clear, we say, are we all opposed to this conspiracy case? We're against it. Did the parallelists, did he, did he, whoever did it, come, let's return this injustice, stand before this injustice, and vote as the Grand National Assembly, and let this law be accepted, my friends. Look, I know people, too, not just public servants. In İzmir, a friend of ours was sentenced to twenty-four years in prison because there was something different with the police or the people there at the time. The Constitutional Court has corrected this, these fascistly formed special-minded courts have been removed, but the Supreme Court has to review the decisions made by the special court and send them back to normal courts to ensure that people's rights are restored. I've talked to certain people, but if we return these files, there'll be tens of thousands of files, we can't get out of it... but there are thousands of people in prison who are doing twenty-four years, thirty years, twenty-five years, ten years, fifteen years. There's no place for people in prisons, there's so many people, there's no room in prisons, guys. In this sense, the process is ending -- and I ask that you support the Republican People's Party by accepting this proposal of law, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit01spe0013par0276	Thank you. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0013par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 82nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We're moving on to "Works to Be On Special Agenda" on the agenda. We are starting talks on opening a geneor for members of the Council of Ministers (11/50) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group's Group Deputy İzmir MP Oktay Vural; on the grounds that they do not defend the territory of the Republic of Turkey, on behalf of Süleyman Shah Turbate and Respect Station. Government? It's in place. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed, and it's read in the 77th joint of the General Assembly, dated 16/3/2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, this meeting will be promised to a member of the motionholders, a deputy member of the political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. I now read the names of the members of the following members: Öğurge owner Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP; on behalf of the groups, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ertuğul Kürkçı, Mersin MP; on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP; on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Oktay Vural, İzmir MP; Emrullah İsler, Ankara MP; on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; on behalf of the government, Milli Defence Minister Ismet Yılmaz. Now, the first word of the petition belongs to Solomon Nevzat Korkmaz. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0014par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have been promised to explain my views as one of the members of the AKP government's genotype for the abandonment of Suleiman Shah Turbage and Respect Station one night in the middle of the night and the release of the country's land to the slaves. Members of parliament write that the Ottoman Dynasty, the ancestor of the Ottoman Dynasty, Süleyman Shah, was strangled crossing the river and his body was taken out of the river and buried at the foot of Caber Castle. On this grave is Sultan II of Eden. A shrine was built in Abdulhamit Khan, and the sentence called it the Turkish Tomb. The Treaty of Ankara 1921 was left to Turkey as a Turkish land, under the insistence of the Turkish tomb, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the Turkish government. So, dear lawmakers, what we're dealing with here is more than just a matter of being picked up in the middle of the night and taken away with a handful of land in the trunk of a great ceddin whose body has been reduced to dust. It's a shame about all of this, but it means something deeper. We are talking about withdrawing from the spiritual frontiers of a land called the Turkish Cemetery, which are 8.797 square metres [8,797 m] tall, whose spiritual size is priceless and has soldiers on it, and which have been dealt with by international agreements on the Turkish flag. We question giving up the Turkish nation's law without being asked to the Turkish nation again. Isn't this a retreat, a release of the duty of protecting the tomb of the ceddin, which has been assigned to them as a duty of honor and honor, and a abandonment of the post of duty? Sir, we didn't want a person's nose to bleed. Gentlemen, if the land of the land is not protected by blood, by life, if our national interests are not fought for, what would you feed the army for? When you see this challenge, flee. How will you hold on to this geography with your mental attitude? Didn't the Chief of Staff, in his message of Sacrifice Day, published in Special 2014, say that our soldiers waiting at the Station of Respect were waiting for the honor and dignity of our nation? Has the Turkish Armed Forces given up waiting for the dignity and dignity of the nation? This retreat, the abandonment of a post in military literature, which is not a request? Is it a wooden box, or a building made of three or five bricks or bricks, or is the land where our saintly ruler lies a spiritual heritage that is in the trust of the generation of Abdulhamit Khan today? Mr. Davutoglu, I ask you, can you pack up your bowl and walk away one night from your grandfather's private property? Even if you face violence, I'm sure you'll say there's also law in this country. Did you ask anyone? How do you leave your glorious post against history? Don't these people have the right, the law? Who's in charge of this nation's law? Don't you suffer from sacrificing our national interests to a street fight between your government and Assad, because of the strategic depth of the land in Syria? And you, Mr. Chief of Staff, what did you call our soldiers at the Respect Station? With just one piece of news from you, feel the confidence that our Armed Forces will be with you in an instant. What happened? Your own safety and the future of your office should be more important, and when the time came, did you decide to take them to your warm quarters instead of fraternizing with them at the post? This account will surely be asked on June 8th, before justice and then before Turkish history. Now, in the conscience of the nation, the head of power and the Chief of Staff who fled when they saw the challenge. You are condemned, and tomorrow you will answer in front of the law. In the glorious history of this country, Mr. Prime Minister, I order not to fight and not to fight you, but to die. There are Mustafa Kemaller, who says that the price of the land of the state is paid in blood, cannot be sold. The Abdülhamit Khans, Commander of Kanije Tiryaki Hasan Pashas, Gazi Osman Pashas and the Young Ottomans, who have not accepted the captivity, there are Reshat Colonels who can't take their lives and take their lives at the time they promised; and there are those who have fled according to it, who have become the sons of David and the Special Pashas and the people who have not been able to change their lives. You have shown the same abandonment on 16 islands in the Aegean. In Cyprus, you tried with the Annan Plan, and fortune looked on the face of the Turkish nation. And ye have tried in the land of Karabağ, and in the face of Armenia, and in the mouth of a snotty apology; and my Lord hath not given you leave. You must know that it will never be removed from your face, neither today nor tomorrow, that Solomon should be left with the Shah Temple and 16 islands. Mr. Davutoglu, no matter how successful you have presented this retreat to cover up this disgrace and betrayal, there has been no precious relic left behind. Even if you say so, Mr. Special Pasha, this request has become a page of shame with you. It's a disgrace, a disgrace that can't be underestimated, a disgrace that can't be ignored, it has nothing to defend, the dignity of our nation, the reputation of our state. Progress depicts a catastrophe that cannot be tolerated, an unacceptable corruption, and a meltdown. In the face of a threat, the Turkish nation is not a nation that will run away, and you will never find examples of it in history. And our state is not a baseless, dishonorable, ordinary state to defend its national and spiritual trusts, not to mention the separatist's spirit in the Nevruz message, which the separatist spoke of, which would require the kindness and guidance of terrorists, and would not be humiliated enough to seek their approval from them. However, as the AKP government watched our moon-stard flag be lowered in every corner of the country, Suleiman had also stood by at the Shah Temple, handing over every corner of our country to PKK terrorists, and delivered the land of Syria to a terrorist organization called ISIS. However, it is clear that despite the AKP's government, which saw no blame on the integrity of the Turkish country, the unity of our nation, and on the evacuation of the republic that we have established, with the Western imperialism, the Turkish nation would not give up on any land, without fighting, without bloodshed, without paying a price, without giving up any holy cause. I don't know if you're going to face AKP's history and apologize a hundred, thousand times to the Turkish nation, but the account of AKP's giving up the national inheritance entrusted to him will surely be questioned, and on June 7th, the Turkish nation will take the government's trust from those who left its post and left its post and left its post in the face of corruption and corruption. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute you all for the support of your high will for the motion to grant the AKP's government as the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0015par0024	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0016par0028	Mr. President, dear friends, we will support the proposal, of course, because the government needs to be taken into account, but every man has another yogurt food; we think the government should be taken into account from another place in the process. We can participate in part of the middle motion, but even though we disagree and the actual emphasis is on it, there are ways that we don't see it as a fundamental issue. So we support the proposal as a gene, but we need to discuss its contents whether we want to or not. We need a word about the location and location of the incident we're facing in terms of international law. First of all, this is the Solomon Shah Temple, which in international law states that Turkey has a connection with Turkey as an exclave, which means that its political presence is completely devoid of its geographical existence, an area of sovereignty or part of the land that has no physical relationship. But this is the exclave. The Republic of Turkey, according to its own knowledge, is not its own land, but its own areas, or areas, determined by the Syrian government and international agreements. Because, we all know, it wasn't where it was built or buried in 1227, it was where it was carried in 1973. Thus, this exclave went through Syrian territory. Now, he's come to a third place, but in terms of international law, is it still Syrian soil or is it a private law-setting place in Syrian territory, and this is controversial. Therefore, it may not be such a realistic discussion that we have here, as if the domain of Turkey had been violated. But what we need to discuss is not where we end up, but what we need to discuss is where it started, we need to talk about why. It is clear that the Republic of Turkey has fallen into an embarrassing position in the process, perhaps even embarrassing in terms of the government governing it, but a government shooting at its own foot has little right to complain about it. Because all that has happened to Turkey because of Syrian foreign policy has happened and will continue to come. You should have thought that when you believed in the guidance of the United States of America and kept up with it and rolled up your sleeves for regime change in Syria for regime exports, your land there would have been threatened by a regime threat. It's not about gambling, it's not about the fall or the not coming. You only have a Turkish land there within the borders of the Syrian government, the Syrian law. When you shake the sovereignty of Syria, you will know that your own land will be at the mercy of those who rise up against that regime. You have supported the hordes of marauders you call the Free Syrian Army, on the basis of the construction of a so-called higher democracy than the Damascus regime, on the building of a higher humanity, and now you see what they do to your citizens, to our citizens, to our friends, to our relatives, to those who think like you, to those who don't. You created a monster with your own hands. The Free Syrian Army that you built with your own hands came out like a bucket of holes in the ground, and in it, an Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, two rebels who named themselves the Islamic State of Iraq Damascus, and you had the idea that there was no way to build a paradise in this world, and that it was filled with the idea of sending everyone and themselves to the other world and burning this world, and that it meant nothing in fact, but that it meant nothing to the Syrian regime, but that the great states might have been able to benefit them at one time. Now, therefore, the issue is not what the Republic of Turkey did there, but what happened to its land itself, which is foolish, narrow-minded, based on its own history, geography, which is not based on international political knowledge, which is not based on international political knowledge, but on reading the balance of international power, which I will spread to the ancient Ottoman Indians, and I will be the successor of those who have my faith on all sides. You are facing the consequences of the trouble that you have caused you with your dream. His actual trial is what he should be condemned for, and unfortunately, all the political parties in our Parliament have been in some way supportive of these so-called safety statements, at least from the very beginning. Now, so, if we're going to sit on a curve and be honest, I think we should ask the government, rather than the fact that this place, which has been threatened by ISIS, has been moved at the last moment, where it's come from, where it's come from, and how it's done. You'll remember, there was talk of a crazy plan before the 2014 local elections. A recording of a speech by representatives of Turkey's security and defence units, who saw this disaster coming, has been recorded on social media and widespread media. The government did not deny that the contents of this tape were authentic. It's espionage. How can you listen to us, and how can you publish our speech? I mean, they talked, they agreed to it. Like in corruption operations, the contents of these records were never lies. They did not say, they listened to us. They complained. Actually, there was a confession here. What was that confession? The confession was: let's start a war to save this place, let's get out of there, let's get a bomb out of there, let's get into Turkey with the army. Is it a crime internationally if we put tanks in?...... that you had to do the brainstorm of this.... how did the government get into this situation? In the end, everything was bound to happen. This foreign policy has now collapsed with all its sides, but as this foreign policy collapsed, something else happened on Syrian soil: People who worked their necks out to be free from the pressures of the Damascus regime and from the pressures of these gangs entered a process of self-government. We all knew this long ago, but the world and Turkey saw it only during the Kobani resistance. In the name of mankind, those who defended humanity in Kobani have created a new life, not based on any religion, ethnity, nationality, belief, they have established a civil law based on humanity based on being a man of that land, in poverty, in poverty, but on the principles of the highest civilisation. One step at a time, the new order we call the cantons of Rojava began to be established on Syrian soil. So, not just the Kurds of Syria, but all the peoples, Armenians, Arabs, Oppressors, Sıryanians, whoever they are, have established their common government in the land, and so, in fact, humanity has been reincarnated in Syria while mankind is buried in the ground, and civilization has been rehabilitated, so much poverty and deprivation. That's why the world turned to Kobani. That's why Kurdish women have become the world's eyes against the consequences of this irrational, ruthless, cruel foreign policy that Turkey has been feeding them against these ISIS gangs. Here, in Syria, when everything that civilization brings down was in the hands of Kurds and the peoples of those regions, civilization was reborn, and not as a nation state, but as a pluralist, liberal, multinational, multi-identified, citizen government. Now, this is the regime in which the Republic of Turkey is accused of cooperating today. I think the Turkish government did the only smart thing it could do, and for two reasons, the only smart thing: the Kurds have found a place for their historical heritage in areas where they were persecuted every day in Turkey, where they were declared terrorists in Syria, to choose an honorable position after all these defeats and disasters. Turkey is now the site of the land of Rojava. How to think about it in terms of international law is a very different matter, but now, if he didn't have to take that box and smuggle it to Turkey, then it's because of the administration of the Rojava cantons and its executive party, the PYD, who ruled Turkey at the last time, if they were able to get rid of being damaged with that shame. Today, the Joint Chiefs are shouting: "We didn't do anything with them, there's no such thing as a partner spirit, and we haven't spoken to the separatist. You've talked to all of them. You spoke to Ocalan, you spoke to Karayalan, you spoke to everyone. I'm glad you did. You've created a way to save yourself from an abomination, a disgrace, an embarrassment. Therefore, the Republic of Turkey must now think twice about this issue, and those who criticize this government are right about all these care. This is where such an incoherent foreign policy will end in such an inconsistenuous defence policy, but it is the idea of a new world of partnership, both in Turkey and Syria, and in Iran. Everyone must see that what you're dealing with is not a matter of terrorism, it's a matter of public rebellion. It is the practice of the state in which the Republic of Turkey is to meet with the people's rebellion. Since 1993, Turkey has been meeting with rebels, telling the public that they are terrorists, but there is not one statesman, politician Turkey, who does not accept that in terms of general policy and defence policies, the demands of this people's rebellion will be discussed. Don't tell us about the rhetoric you're telling the public about here now because it's a political argument. So this is how you make peace with the people's rebellion, where all the problems will be solved. So the Joint Chiefs are still talking as if they have no idea what power he's been fighting for for 30 years, it's unbelievable. If you still don't see that people who you haven't been able to bend their knees for 30 years can't bend their wrists for a real reason, they still don't have any real ones, we don't see these terrorists, we don't look at them. If you're saying that you're interfering with politics in an unwarranted way and you're trying to teach us the language that we left behind 20 years ago. I turn to the soldiers and say that war is too serious for you to leave. War is a matter that will only be dealt with by representatives of the nation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0017par0042	You don't tell the soldier, you tell the politician, you tell the politician.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0016par0043	You're not soldiers, why are you answering me?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0017par0044	But you tell the politician, they don't have a say.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0016par0045	Maybe. People who don't have a say talk.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0018par0046	Mr. Furcier, please take care of the Minister. Please, Mr. Furry...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0016par0047	They're part of the General Assembly, they're there; we'll talk to everyone.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0019par0048	We're dealing with political power here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0018par0049	Yes, Mr. Secretary, I say.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0019par0050	Therefore, there is no need for such interference with the honorable Turkish army. What's that?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0020par0051	There is no intervention, my dear.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0021par0052	You made the Chief of Staff count, no problem; problem when we count? Everyone...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0019par0053	If you're criticizing political power, do it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0021par0054	There's no power in this world that can't be criticised!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0019par0055	You make partnerships, you meet, you do everything!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0021par0056	Everyone deserves criticism, and everyone takes advantage of criticism; take advantage. Do not shout when things are said that you do not like, and you do not know; but think why do they say it? Patriotism isn't just in your monopoly, patriotism isn't just in the military's monopoly. Everyone who lives here, who lives in Turkey, has the right to talk about the country, about the future, about politics, about how to defend or not to defend this country. Your politics have been tried for years.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0022par0057	It's never been tried, never.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0021par0058	Turkey has returned from the brink of civil war twice, and since no other policy has been benefited from these policies, is it possible to argue here? But not if the General Staff starts to adjust politicians from there to here. The Armed Forces work under the direction of the Assembly, otherwise does not work, does not teach the House wisdom, cannot teach it; it will not be established. So two wrongs don't get one right. We can't get out of this by defending such an intervention in the face of the government's wrong foreign policy. What I and we want to tell you, my dear friends, is that the solution to this people's rebellion is to discuss and resolve it for reasons of rebellion. But even though no international power, no international institution, no terrorist for any international value, is being used to limit all those who remain behind the borders of the Republic of Turkey; you should never say that the United Nations Security Council's decision states that the Democratic Union Party is a terrorist, even though they are never charged with crimes against humanity, but they are terrorists, therefore they cannot be discussed with them. On the contrary, with so many signs that it is possible for us to build a new future by meeting with them, it is only surprising that these signs cannot be received from Turkey, when they are from France, Germany, America, Greece, Russia, Iran, Iraq. You can see how difficult it is to resolve this issue in such a self-conscious, self-promoting government and opposition. But we're ready to take on all the roles. And we're trying to figure out what's the point of looking at ourselves and life by getting into the shoes of the nationalist MPs on the other side of the discussion, the ones who just called me there. So we're dealing with a serious issue that can't be solved with disks, rhetoric. Not that the Justice and Development Party has done the last thing they can do, but that the wrong foreign policy he's created all along should be judged for the consequences we face today. You can't export a regime to another country, you can't work politically to do good for the people of another country, you're obliged to solve your own country's affairs, and you need to know that if you can solve them, you'll always be welcome on the other side. What happened? At the end of the 12 years, he was in a great, unfriendly, uncompromising loneliness... what was it, how was it lonely?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0023par0062	Valued loneliness.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0021par0063	Is it possible that it's a foreign policy doctrine that you're in precious loneliness? So, yes, let's face it, let's discuss it, but let's just know that we may not agree all over the discussion. Above all, we can do nothing but salute the rule of Rojava, its valued rulers, and its warrior women who rebel against ISIS persecution, who have actually created a solution to the problems Turkey has to solve. We bow before them with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0024par0067	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0025par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0024par0069	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0025par0072	Mr. President, thank you. The representative of the political movement, which ended the military custody system in Turkey, is the EC PARTY. This is the essence of social and political transformation after 2002. Therefore, it is wise to once write on the side of our mind that there is a political delegation here that has opened up the path of democracy with public support in the past, against military elites' position on Turkey's politics. Second: Of course, no institution is in the way of criticism, but every criticism has its place, its time, its gesture, its discrete. I strongly reject this movement in this nation's collective memory as we talk about a geneor opened up to the General Assembly, which is in a gesture and attitude towards military representatives who have no right to speak. First of all, let me make this clear. It can never be seen as a criticism. The military is criticized, criticized everywhere, but this context here, this attitude here, is certainly not based on criticism. I don't see it that way, and most of the MPs here don't see it that way. Therefore, I would like to report that I strongly criticised the speaker's attitude here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0077	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0027par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0079	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0027par0080	During his speech, Mr. Bostanci said that the character speaking on behalf of our group of non-verbal soldiers has been severely lacking in methods.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0081	He said he was critical.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0027par0082	I'm going to ask for a word of sarcasm, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0083	Is it acceptable for him to say he's critical, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0027par0084	No, he said it wasn't politically ethical in terms of the method.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0085	I'll give you my word, Mr. Baluken, because I don't think there's any teasing.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0028par0086	There's a lot of teasing.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0026par0087	I promise you two minutes like Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0029par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke on behalf of our group has clearly expressed his views on the stand. In particular, he has made it clear that both our party and a member of our party, as a member of the party, have heard what he has heard as a member of parliament, as a member of the party, as a soldier's political intervention. Mr. Secretary of Defense, who has been talking to all the soldiers here, is sitting there, and on behalf of the government, he's going to have the right to come out here and speak for himself. So he has no right to speak. We do not find it acceptable to make a presentation over him, as if it had been a serious method error. We stand behind all the criticism that we say. The Joint Chiefs of Staff is not an institution that will give the Parliament a hard time or lead political parties. If the Secretary of State has any comment on this, I think it would be more appropriate for the General Staff to respond from the stand through the irregularities. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit02spe0030par0093	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/50) We continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction will be on the agenda. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the speaker is Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0031par0008	Mr. President, we're talking about the recommendation of the People's Council of Ministers to open a Gensor on members of the Council of Ministers on the charge that they have not defended the Land of the Republic of Turkey, that they have defended the Land of the Republic of Süleyman Shah and the Respect Station in the name of the Nationalist Action Party. To clarify the problem, you have to ask some questions: 1) Who is Solomon Shah? Where is the shrine? Why is the sacred outpost of the shrine considered Turkish soil? 2) Why did the 62nd government in Ahmet Davutoglu's presidency feel the need to operate against Süleyman Shah Respect Station? 3) Is the operation in accordance with international law? 4) Was there any cooperation with terrorist organizations before, after, the order of the operation? 5) Are military equipment, weapons, supplies, tanks abandoned during the operation? 6) Is the new site selected for the shrine belonging to a Syrian citizen? 7) Is this operation a heroic tale? 8) Will the 62nd government be able to defend the results of this operation internationally? 9) What was to be done? Congressmans, there are wrongs known as galatthur, wrongs that are known to be true. One of them is related to Solomon's Shah Temple. Suleiman Shah is said to be the grandfather of Osman Gazi, the founder of the Ottoman State, and that is not the truth. For the father of Osman Gazi is Ertuğrul Gazi, and his father is Gazi Gündüz Alpine. Suleiman Shah is the name of one of Alparslan's leading commanders, and Kutalmişoğlu Süleyman lost his life in the battle of Melikşah's brother Tutush. It is said that he was a martyr or that he ended his own life when he saw the danger of losing the war. A deal between the two countries has been made to move to the left coast of the Fırat River, instead of Karakozak, 37km from the border, on the grounds that the El Tabka Dam, which was launched by Syria in 1966, would remain under the waters of the Caber Castle. After this incident, the 62st government kidnapped the Honour Department from the palace as an abduction of a girl on 22 February 2015, with the assessment of the danger of ISIS rising in the region. It is very interesting that it is announced with the support of the media as well as with the title of the great movement. Real estate is seen as unaware of the concept of non-gayrimculal, and the land cannot be moved. You know, Mr. Davutoglu, whose name was Ahmet Bey of Kiziroğlu, whose song was made up, was booming in 2014.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0032par0022	How, how? Say that again.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0031par0023	Ahmet Davutoglu, who had tried to establish the domain of ISIS, said: "The land in which Süleyman Shah Turbesi was found is Turkish territory by the international law inventor of the 1921 Agreement and is our only land beyond the border. Whether it's the regime or any attack from radical groups, Turkey will take every precaution to defend that land there without hesitation. Is taking all measures, defending the land equivalent to missing the shrine? Were there nine tanks left during this operation? When we left the temple, we destroyed the shrine, so that no one else would harm it. When we left the tanks, did we make the tanks unusable? A sufficient explanation of this claim has yet to be made. How do you go into action with a tank that cuts through a pallet on the way? If the palette peels off the tanks, then the government has thrown it away. There are zero problems with the neighbours. The people who say that they have taken the Ark to zero point and struck a heavy blow to the dignity of the Republic of Turkey. What was to be done? At the time of the threat, international rules of engagement could be applied in the vicinity of Solomon Shah Temple, as at the border. We are well aware of the power and ability of the Turkish Armed Forces as a person working at the Air Defense Center -- Air Defence Organization Center. Incirlik (3.3.5 km) from İncirlik (37 km) to the shrine, all operations such as exploration, prevention and bombing could be carried out in 5 minutes. The determination to protect the homeland is not to take off a jacket in the General Staff's negotiations. Besides, they pissed off the nominee for president who wasn't in that video. Even though the world ended in such a fiasco, it did not see or hear an operation presented as a victory. By saying the sun to the moon, the moon does not become a fireball, my friends. Operation Shah Fırat has nothing to defend the land of the land, nor can a story of success be made. Abduction of a shrine is a crime in which Article 302 of Turkish Penal Code 5237 is subject to aggravated life imprisonment. What does Article 302 say? The substance, which begins to dominate the entire territory of the state or part of its territory under the rule of a foreign state, envisions aggravated life imprisonment. In addition, the concept of the wife spirit is often used in this operation. ▪ Has there been an incident called the spirit of the wife? There is a group. It says, "There is no group." It says, "What is the truth?" The society wants to know. When Mr. President was Prime Minister of the period, he said that armored ships would accompany the Blue Marvara. The Prime Minister of the period, the current President, has repeatedly said, "I will go to Gaza." He has postponed one, two, three times, the number of delays has been forgotten, and there is still no one going to Gaza. He was talking about praying in the Mosque, and he was unable to perform his duty. He made an irresponsible statement saying that Kobani would fall. How did the President of the Republic of Turkey fall? He would have exposed those who drank at the mosque, and punished those who insulted a lady in Kabataş Square, and he still did not keep his word. What word should we take from the President, what word should we take? A president cannot act in propaganda to one side by forgetting that he speaks with various excuses every day; he must remain faithful to his oath, and according to him he deserves to be respected. Congressmans, last week we were going to a program in Adana. When Mr. Sabih Kanadoğlu and I boarded the plane, we began to study the magazine. I have that magazine. There are eight titles in this magazine, eight separate articles: 1) (Thanakkale Spirit Everywhere) 2) (Khanakkale is not the only one who survived) 5) What Was in Caravan? 6) Do Hece Stones Speak? 7) 100. The victory of Çanakkale in the year 8) (100. Events and Peace Bridge in the Year Çanakkale There are eight articles, eight articles describe the most important aspects of the battle of Çanakkale, but nothing: the Turkish national Liberation War has no name, the hero of the Anafartas, and the leader of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. Is there such shamelessness, such informal behavior, such a betrayal of your national history? (HIP applause in turn) Since they have come to power, it's inattentive, it's inept, it's indignity, it's indelicate, it's incremental, it's incremental, it's incremental, it's incremental, it's incremental, it's in the eyes of our beloved nation. The glorious leader of the National Liberation War deserves all respect, loyalty, and mercy, my friends. In the national days, those who sign the Memorial notebooks must stop displaying their hatred elsewhere. Mr. Minister of the Forest is here. Minister, in the 100th year of Gallipoli, the brochure was not published in a very different way. Out of respect for you, I'm ruining my criticism for now.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0033par0041	If you have any advice, let me know, and we'll do it our way.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0031par0042	I believe that those who reject and deny the great Ataturk, which we have gained freedom and independence under the leadership of our holy nation, have now seen and understood the true face of those who deny it, and will teach. Members of parliament, these days, serious debates between the government's Speaker Mr. Bkent Arinc and Mr. President and the famous mayor of Ankara are reflected in the press and public opinion. At one time, Mr. President Abdullah Gul made a statement regarding the festival celebrations on October 29th, and Mr. President said there would be no two sides. The reasons for these discussions are known, but one of the parties will no longer speak. The other will speak after June 8. The reason is unknown. If there's a public interest in knowing, why delay revealing the facts? What secret crime will remain obscured until then? Will he be able to stay covered after that? No crime can remain covered up, as Seneca said, and injustices cannot go on forever. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Moreover, the situation led to the media, which they did not know which side to take. If I spit down, if I spit up, if they turned into PMs like mustaches, they'd turn into fugitives. It's not clear who's on the side, who's on the side, who's on the lookout for strategic targets. They say, "Long live the king." But they don't remember his name because they don't know who the potential king will be. Congressmans, I believe it was the day before, in his speech at the Military Academys, he said that he had been deceived in the Ergenekon and Balyoz cases. For more than 12 years, anyone who cheats can't talk about deception using their every skill. There's a conspiracy, and there's a fact. The cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer may be conspiracy, but the operations of December 17th and 25th are the truth. The parallel between conspiracy and December 17th and 25th is a new dimension of deception. No one saw the evidence, the evidence of the sledgehammer, the reasonable doubt, but the evidence of the 17th and 25 December operations, the images, the images, the images, the entire Turkish nation, the entire nation saw it, and they're doing it according to it. Those who are deceived will pay the price for deceiving our nation. Cheaters have no right to complain about being deceived. Mr. Lawmakers, hurry up with the good work of our Prophet." He says, but these days, the majority group is in a hurry to do things that aren't good. The package called the internal security package has no good elements, no materials. People are waiting. They call it. The nation has no such expectations, not in the government programme, not in the AKP government's election promises, in any similar plan, in the project, in the government programme that has received the vote of confidence. However, non-criminal verbs have been criminalized by an internal security package. The former criminal elements are no longer a crime with the Homeland Security package. This is a new dimension of cheating on our nation. With this package, the killers will be saved from trial, the convicted will be evacuated. In one of the articles, he says to share in the march with the company. It's not sanctioned to use the slingshot. Joining the march with a slingshot requires two years, six months, and four years in prison. How will those who are soaked in painted water save themselves? Police College students are losing their rights. Students from the School of Security Sciences lose their rights a few months later, those waiting to graduate as senior police officers. They will have compensation rights, but no one has the right to pay the state for the AKP Group's mistakes. Indeed, [all] rights are due [to Allah]. The concept of honorable rights is not recognized. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights has verdicts of conviction. New cases are pending at the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, the provisions against provisions restricting the use of democratic rights provide provisions, while criticizing the absence of questioning of violent police officers, not being tried. Don't make it too heavy with the new despotic laws. Members of the law, the acceptance of this business today is a national duty. I pay tribute to those who contribute to this mission and to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0034par0052	Thank you. Oktay Vural, MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0056	Thank you. Mr. President, we're here today to talk about a very valuable lawmakers, the Council of Ministers, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. It is very clear and clear that our proposal for the geneor is to abandon the land of the Republic of Turkey, according to the 62st government of the Republic of Turkey, the Council of Ministers -- in accordance with the Treatys of Ankara and Lauzan -- Solomon Shah Turbate and Respect Station of Turkey, and they have decided not to defend the land of the Republic of Turkey, which the Constitution has given them. Again, on 2 October 2014, Turkey's Grand National Assembly took action in the hilafa of Resolution 1071, which was adopted as a terrorist organisation by the Republic of Turkey, which the government of Turkey considers to be a terrorist organization. There is a government that cannot protect Turkey's rights and interests, which has neutralized its ability to defend and deterrence in the face of threats to our rights and interests. So today, this gene is given about the entire Council of Ministers, which gives this will, and the regiment is responsible for it. There is a committee that has failed to carry out the duties of both the Constitution and the Laws and the Council of Ministers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With the political instructions of the AKP government, with elements of Turkish Armed Forces, with a night operation in Syria, where this shrine and outpost, which was confirmed to be Turkish soil in Syria, had the right to have soldiers and draw flags, was unfortunately handed over to ISIS, and then to PKK and PSD. This request of the government is a complete defeat, a surrender, from a legal, political and strategic point of view. The property protected by the will of the Turkish nation has been left to three or five marauders, the apocalypse, a squatter's logic. On October 20, 1921, under Article 9 of the Ankara Agreement between Turkey and France and Article 3 of the Lausanne Agreement, this land, which is our homeland, unfortunately, was abandoned by the political will of this government, and in this way, the elimination of the Ankara Agreement and the Lausanne Agreement, in fact, eliminates the rights of the Republic of Turkey due to international law. In your presence, there is also a government that is incapable of protecting our rights and interests under international agreements, and in this Lausanne Agreement, there are limits to me. While the site of Solomon's Shah Turbage is considered a land of land, the border of Mysamimilli, those who request it may also make it a victory to withdraw from our borders with Lauzan, drawn with agreements the day after tomorrow. Yes, we had the French sign the Ankara Agreement as a result of our resistance, they had to withdraw from the east and southeast, they had to retreat to the Syrian border. Hatay later joined Turkish territory in 1939. On 14 March 2014, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu said the following about this agreement. [[The preacher played a recording with an electronic device]] Yes, he takes every precaution. It is a land of land, Thrace, an integral part of Asia Minor. Today, unfortunately, it can be presented as a victory to escape this land. St. Lawmakers, those who wish to uphold the rights and laws of our beloved nation... [[The preacher played a recording with an electronic device]] Yes, the President, the Prime Minister of the period, says that it is our land. Any attempt to do so will be met at once. You have said all these things. You said all that in front of the citizen. Yes, on October 2, 2014, with 1071 points, the Council of Ministers arrived at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We negotiated here, you ordered a cross-border operation. Why? You said, "Süleyman Shah, we must defend the land." You said, "We must defend it." You asked the MPs for authority and the Council of Ministers, who failed to exercise it, gave the honorable Turkish Armed Forces political instructions to abandon this land. Dear MPs, see here, what does the Turkish National Defence Minister say that day in the Grand National Assembly? [[The preacher played a recording with an electronic device]] Yeah, they didn't hesitate, they ran away. He said, "We are here to defend, we will defend, we have no hesitation." St. Lawmakers, they told you that. Mr. Emrullah Business, you spoke on behalf of the AKP Group. What did you say about this thesis here?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0036par0074	No montage, montage!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0037par0075	It's a montage, a montage!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0076	Yeah, that's what they told everybody.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0038par0077	Did you defend it or run away?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0078	They said that, and what do you think those who don't defend that land there today, those who don't have the guts to defend it, those who have escaped from that land the day after tomorrow, when there's a threat to the land of this country, in another part of our Anatolia? Where will you take them? Where are you going to run to?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0039par0079	That land belongs to us, no one can take it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0040par0080	This isn't doctor's work!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0081	You've put in a lot of willpower when you're doing your thesis. Where's the will? I'm asking. The Constitution says: The Council of Ministers is responsible for the defence of the country. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey says to protect this land. This is his political directive to the Council of Ministers, and you have made it public. Now, where is it, where is it? You cheated and deceived people. Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code, where the Council of Ministers is responsible for carrying out its provisions: "He who commits an act to subjugate Turkish lands under the rule of a foreign state, to separate some of the lands under the state's rule, will be punished with a aggravated life sentence. There is no doubt that Mehmetçik is willing to protect that land; he is Mehmetçik! But the Council of Ministers has no will. And on February 22, 2015, Suleiman Shah Temple in Karakozak village, Turkish soil, unfortunately abandoned. We're going to do it, without any hesitation. There is in your presence the political power and the Council of Ministers, who have never really hesitated about it. And you know what's embarrassing? What's really embarrassing is that here, the PKK's terrorist organization is allowed to have a view in the shadow of the PYD's rags, you know.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0041par0084	You're like, "Oh, crap." Who protects your Turkmen there?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0085	And about all of this, the PKK is a terrorist organization; the NYD is an extension of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Loud and clear.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0041par0086	Who protects your Turkmen in Kerkuk, in Tuzhurmatu? I'm sorry... You're going to throw Nara, it's easy; go and fight them.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0035par0087	A national conscience has been raised by the same route as the PKK and Mehmetçik. Don't let them shout victory! Indeed, Lausanne's gains have been reset and the rights of international agreements have been brought to a region under the control of the PKK and the PYD. Such vulgarity has never occurred in Turkish history. Under the most difficult conditions in 1974, he stood upright in Cyprus, taking everything at risk, taking into account the late Erbakan, the late Ecevit, all these embargoes, to wave the Turkish flag in Cyprus. What would you do? Ayşe should take a vacation. If this had happened today, he would have returned from his vacation. They would have asked immediately, saying "Ayşe" and a scandal such as request had been really provoked and unfortunately, the Turkish flag had been shouldered and fled. This flag is a flag that deserves to fluctuate anywhere with legitimacy, a flag that deserves it! [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] No precious relics were left. Is there something more precious than the earth? It is very important for Turkish Armed Forces to say that the terrorist organization is being co-operated and that the news is unrealistic. But, Mr. Davutoglu, we've reported the Prime Minister's operation of Süleyman Shah to the PYD. He reported it to the PYD! We've informed the coalition and the PYD on this matter. The government has dealt with the PKK and the PYD. In fact, everyone knows about Turkey's deterrent power. If we had a deterrent, our soldier would be there right now. The president can't plant a monument of glory. Indeed, yes, cowards can't plant a monument of victory because they have no courage, they leave the land. Mr. Davutoglu, an operation in the middle of the night... is it a slum or is my tomb my land? The operation in the middle of the night... and he's out and he's bored, and he's like, "Oh, God, we've done the prayer." Why did you pray? We have left the land of the land. How can you be thankful for that? I mean, they hurt the spiritual spirit of our nation. I think it would be better if you, as the Council of Ministers, prayed for repentance as a congregation, for repentance, for forgiveness. Thus, leaving the land and fleeing is not an issue of such pride in the time of our religion, nor in the time of our history, nor in the time of our practice. While fighting against the Crusaders to protect the Turkish-Islam home, Sulejman Shah, who was said to be a martyr, sealed the land, and you couldn't even keep his trust. It's a surrendering mentality. In Mosul, they handed over our consuls to ISIS, and they pawned them to ISIS. They saw it, but they pawned it to ISIS. We are faced with a surrendering mindset that abandoned Solomon Shah to PKK. This mentality allowed the PKK to live in a secure area north of Iraq. This mentality, frankly, has taken steps in the southeast to legitimize PKK and TK parallel construction. The mindset is clear, a surrendering mindset: give it up, sell it. To this day, it is clear and clear that the government, which has ruled Turkey for thirteen years, has come to this stage today to say that what it has done is a guarantee of what it will do. Mr. Davutoglu says that this transfer is temporary, it will change when conditions improve. What will you do? Instead of defending Cyprus because it is in danger, will you bring it to Iconiah, and to Yozgat, and to Yozgat? At a group meeting on February 26th, you say: "The wife is now a land of the land." In one of them, it's temporary, and in one of them, the land of the state. You don't know what you're doing. Indeed, we have fulfilled the dreams of the October. He said that I have no land to sell to anyone who offered money to build Israel to those who performed it. Today you, my family, and my horse, who offered to leave this land as a success, belong to me; but the land, even the barren land, belongs to my nation. You have also proved that you are not the will of the generation of Oğuz Khan, who called it a cause of war. This is also a matter of sovereignty. By denying me the rights granted by international law, our PKK and the PYD have no more meaning than the attempt by the government to bring Turkey, the land, to a region we consider to be a terrorist organization in the north of Syria, where we do not know such sovereignty, and to build the Syrian Kurdistan. At the same time, there are 20 Turkmen villages in Karakozak, and there are no Turkmen in Yaşme. This is part of a plan designed to create a complete field domination, to allow the Turkmen to withdraw from there by playing the same game in Telabiyet. On March 21st, the spirit of wife... it's a spirit that pours salt into the state, the nation, the country, the geography. So, sadly, today, the terrorist leader's testimony and the government's defense operation have been able to meet on the same axis. Do you realize who your step is for, who it serves? It is against the will of parliament, it is against the Constitution, it is against the law, it is against Lausanne, but it is in accordance with the marriage spirit offered by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Then, your goal and goal is to clearly legitimize the PKK and the PYD. This is a script. Clearly, at this point, we are in the newspapers of August 21st, where there was an agreement on the release of 49 personnel for nine hundred and twenty-eight years of this land. And at this point that we're here today, really, moving to the wife has opened up space for the PKK, expanding the area of the PYD. This is a script. Part of the script is: Turkey has declared PKK/PYD a terrorist organization, but on October 29th, they allowed it to help PKK with victory signs. It is not enough that the United States has opened its way for the United States to help them with weapons. Now, by bringing the land to the location of the PKK and the PYD, the Republic of Turkey has repeatedly admitted that Syria had participated in the construction of Kurdistan. Yes, this government, my dear friends, has overcome Turkey's strategic interests with the will to leave the homeland and has neutralized our country's ability to defend and deterrence, and has given information about the operation to terrorist organizations that are Turkey's enemies, and has prepared a basis for bringing terror organisations into a region where the PKK/PYD is located. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And it is not possible for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to trust such a Council of Ministers as representatives of the nation, who were able to overcome this right and our interests today, who suddenly left their homeland with a flagpole on its back overnight. Therefore, I would like to invite you all to support this motion to make the decision on this government by bringing this motion to the attention of the public, which we've discussed in advance.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0042par0101	Thank you. Emrullah İslam, Ankara MP, has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0104	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the Group Vice-President Oktay Vural, and on behalf of the Council of Ministers on behalf of the PKK/PYD on the charge that they have not defended the land of the Republic of Turkey, and that they have been dealing with ISIS terror organizations. I salute your high council. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, due to recent conflicts in the vicinity of Süleyman Shah Respect Station, the merkur outpost and north have been controlled by the PKK/PYD, and the west and south have remained under DEAS control, and there are still conflicts. 40 staff members serving at Süleyman Shah Respect Station were not replaced in eight and a half months from June 6, 2014 until February 21, 2015. In fact, the DEAS, which threatened the roads of land and supply near the police station, made an effort to negotiate with Turkey on land-changing activities, so the change was not made. There was a good chance that if the region fell into the hands of other groups, there would be a similar situation. One of the routes used for staff exchange and supply activities is controlled by DEAŞ, the other is controlled by PYD, and part of the third route is controlled by DEAS, and the other is controlled by PYD. We've received serious threat intelligence from our police station on different dates. In case of an attack, the Turkish Armed Forces had taken every precaution at the time and had completed their preparations. Members of parliament, the four-year period of conflict in Syria and the presence of the DEAC in the region have long been at grave risk of the Suleiman Shah Turbage and Respect Station, a Karakozak position 37km away from the Turkish border. The shrine of Solomon Shah, the police station, and the pressures and threats on the security of 40 of our military personnel, who were waiting for a great sacrifice and a heroic example, had reached serious heights with recent developments in the region. As a result of the security debates, it has been decided that Solomon Shah's Turbage and Respect Station will be temporarily transported to our border in Syria along with the tomb of Süleyman Shah. This decision was carried out successfully by the Shah Firat operation, which took place on February 21st-22, 2015. The operation included 96 vehicles and 532 personnel, 39, including tanks. With 40 personnel and 4 vehicles stationed at the police station joining our elements on the return, there were 572 personnel and 100 vehicles involved in the operation. In addition, 32 combatants, 30 backup planes were kept in the air and on the ground by our Air Force. It is important to note that Operation Shah Fırat was carried out only because of security concerns and that the burial process was temporary. When peace, stability, and security are restored in Syria, it may be possible to relocate the tomb. The Suleiman Shah Temple and Respect Station within Syrian borders is, as it is known, a Turkish land with agreements on the basis of international law. These are the documents of the Ankara Agreement dated 20/10/1921, the signing of the Commission, which was established after warning Turkey-French Friendship and Good Neighborhood Contract, on 03/05/1930 in Aleppo, signed on 29/05/1937, between Turkey and France, the signing of the Turkish Border under Security Agreement; 23/06/1939 in Turkey and Syria, the Agreement of the Agreement of the Land Messaid Surette Hall of Mutazammim; 17/12/1973, the Letter Teatisi and Akdolunununa; the Agreement between Turkey and the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey; the Syrian Republic of Turkey; the Agreement of Syria; the Agreement of Turkey and the Syrian Republic of Syria under-Substantries of Turkey; the Treaty of Peace and the Arab Republic of Syria (Seria) under the Agreement of Syria (Surettes), the Agreement of Turkey and the Agreement on the Treaty; the Treaty; 17/12/12/12/12/12/12/12/12/12, the Treaty; the Agreement of the Treaty; the Treaty; the Treaty of Peace and the Treaty; the Treaty of Peace and the Treaty of the Treaty of the Treaty; the Treaty of Peace and the Treaty of Peace and the Treaty of Peace and the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Treaty of Turkey and the Treaty of Peace and the Turkish Republic of Peace and the Treaty of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Syria of Turkey; the Constitution of Syria of Syria of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey and the Constitution of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey and the Constitution of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Turkish and the Turkish and the Constitution of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Constitution and the Constitution of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Constitution of Turkey and the Constitution of Turkey; the Treaty of Syria of Turkey; the Treaty of Syria of Turkey and the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Turkey; the Treaty of Congressmans, there is no hesitation or debate about the status of the shrine. The temporary transfer and burial process does not mean any change in the status of Solomon Shah's Turbage and its client, which has been identified by agreements.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0044par0110	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0111	Turkey's loss of land is out of the question in any way. The shrine was moved from its former location to another secure area with the same facial measurement in Syria temporarily.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0045par0112	Why temporarily?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0113	In fact, Operation Shah Fırat was transferred to the fourth place of the Shah Temple of Solomon. As it is known, the shrine and police station were moved to its second location inside Caber Castle in 1939 due to its previously impossible repair and security weaknesses. On 22 December 1973, Syria was moved to Karakozak position in order to prevent the flood of the outpost and shrine because of the construction of Tabka Dam.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0046par0114	After all, someone tried to take down the Turkish flag.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0047par0115	It was a deal. The terrorist organization is making you do it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0116	Operation Shah Firat's success and the way it was carried out is essentially clear to Turkey's purpose. There was no conflict with any of the people during the operation, not a single shot was fired. Only information has been made at the appropriate time for the relevant sections of the operation. In this framework, 114 countries and 13 international organisations, including our country, have been informed of the action of the Syrian National Coalition, which is considered a legitimate representative of the Syrian people, and has been provided with a note by our Foreign Ministry on the process of the Syrian regime's consulate in Istanbul, which has been explained by our public with necessary explanations, and has been informed by our permanent representative of the United Nations General Secretary General and the President of the United Nations Security Council of the United Nations that the transport has been carried out by the United Nations. Mr. Foreign Minister has phoned the foreign ministers of some friendly countries and allies to inform them of the operation. Honourable lawmakers have been notified of the necessary measures to ensure that no conflict between the armed elements of the land and the Shah Firat operation will not be discovered within Syria. In the course of the operation, all sections have acted with my mind. This is another clear indication of the cause and purpose of action. The operation was carried out entirely by Turkey's own savings, and no group has been co-ordinated or co-operated with. Turkey has made significant contributions to regional stability, both for its national security and for its country's security, leading to Syrian-based risks and threats against its territory by Operation Shah Fırat. Members of parliament, the rights of Ankara Agreement, born of Ankara Agreement with a successful military operation carrying our outpost to our border, has been ensured that the security of the personnel at the police station will be more effective, and that the Republic of Turkey will be prevented from facing an unexpected provocation. Congressmans, such a successful operation has shown the power of the Turkish Armed Forces once again to all friendly enemies. I know a debt of gratitude to the commanders and commanders of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and commanders at the command center, who carried out such an operation that has raised the hearts of 77 million sons of our country, and to the commanders and men who have personally participated in the operations, from this stand of our great Parliament. And yet, in such a national issue, I leave it to our great nation to consider opposition parties against us and to make such a motion for the nationalist movement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's been a lot of talks before me, but I don't want to answer that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0048par0122	Don't give it to me. What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0049par0123	That's right. Those who run away can't answer.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0124	I'm just saying, I'm just saying, the ancients have a nice saying: the expression is the same as the person.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0048par0125	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0050par0126	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0127	That's right, you've revealed what you are by your tone. But once we're here, we need to underline this.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0051par0128	What in God's name is in our language?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0129	The flag on Syrian soil has not been lowered, and you know it very well.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0051par0130	No, can you tell me what's in the language?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0131	The flag was planted somewhere else on Syrian soil, and then the transplant was carried out.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0052par0132	Is the flag still flying in there?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0133	Look, you've said it in conversations you've had before. If there had been any interference, we would have taken every precaution necessary immediately and given the necessary answer. But thankfully there was no such attack, it can't be; everyone in the region sees what Turkey's power is.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0053par0134	If you run, if you leave the land, there will be no attack!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0135	Dear friends, look, you came out here and the land was abandoned. You said. I say, have mercy! Is that police station on Turkish soil?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0054par0136	Yeah, your words say it's country land.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0137	Homeland, yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0054par0138	You said it yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0055par0139	So why did you leave? Why didn't you defend it?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0140	You will soon see that the police station has moved to Karakozak.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0054par0141	Why are you leaving because there are no rants?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0142	...Turkish people and the whole world will see.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0056par0144	You left because it wasn't coupon land?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0145	Dear friends, look, we're not looking for adventure. In that case, I'd like to quote: What does the leader of the main opposition party say on a television channel eleven days before the March 30th elections, and of course, the television channel of the parallel structure is the television channel, which should be highlighted.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0056par0146	Look, the Council of Ministers is parallel to the regiment!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0057par0147	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0148	Now, look, we're running for office. Our newspapers have little news that there will be attacks on Solomon's Shah Temple, etc. On the Syrian side, within 30 kilometers of our border, Prime Minister Erdogan may want to get the army into Syria before the elections -- in parentheses. I'd like to address the Chief of Staff here: Don't bring Turkey into adventure. There's no attack there, but it could be a provocation, Erdogan might want to bring in the army. Everyone has to be very careful. Turkey does not need adventure. Turkey has neither the right nor the right to enter the Middle East swamp. In the form of this issue, the president of the main opposition party makes such statements.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0058par0149	Okay.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0150	Okay, what do we have here?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0151	We're not looking for adventure. We're acting with my mind...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0152	So you did what Mr. Kilicdaroglu said?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0153	And we did what had to be done. Hopefully, when the time for that outpost comes, he will be transferred to his place in Karakozak, before the eyes of the whole world.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0154	So you did what Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, and you didn't go on an adventure?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0043par0155	I say we're against this genome as the AK PARTY Group, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0060par0157	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0060par0159	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0160	Mr. President, in his speech of Business, he used some of his sentences in a different context, in a very clear way, by calling him the President of the Main Opposition Party. I'd like word from you for bullying, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0060par0161	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0165	Mr. President, do you mean to say that Mr. Kilicdaroglu wants to take Erdoğan Turkey on an adventure in his speech?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0061par0166	I'm not saying it, he's saying it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0167	...you've taken notice and now you haven't brought the Turkish Armed Forces into Syria, do you mean?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0061par0168	You're telling me yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0169	There is a clear fact: the Republic of Turkey -- in the words of Tayyip Erdoğan, Davutoglu -- has fled from Thrace, from Anatolia, from the site where there is a sacred outpost, which is no different from the place of Thrace. There's no other explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0062par0170	He got away with it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0171	You've escaped with success, you're bragging about it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0063par0172	Mr. Kilicdaroglu says, how do you explain it?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0173	See, you mean, Mr. Kilicdaroglu wants to drag Turkey into adventure. He said, "We listened to him, we didn't drag Turkey into adventure."
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0063par0174	We don't do it because Mr. Kilicdaroglu says we're acting wisely.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0059par0175	Look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is saying something else. You brought me here to discuss Syria. He was accepted on 2 October 2014. A dissertation that criticised Assat from beginning to end, which justified the need for Turkish Armed Forces to enter Syria because of Assad. We must go to Syria to destroy Esat. You say. Mr. Kilicdaroglu says you're taking Turkey on an adventure. You've used one sentence in this thesis, one sentence: on the other hand, the risk of security towards Süleyman Shah Respect Station, which is considered Turkish territory under international law has increased. Why are you writing this down? If an attack on homeland land, Anatolia, Thrace, will you take authority from the Parliament? No. To deceive the people, to speak to the hearts of the people, you wrote Solomon Shah, but you were afraid, and you could not use it. With the cooperation of the PKK and the PYD, you carried that shrine with their support, leaving the land there. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0064par0179	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0065par0180	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0064par0181	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0065par0184	Sir, here is the operation of our Turkish Armed Forces and so on. If you instruct the Turkish Armed Forces, they'll go to Cyprus, they'll go to the north of Iraq, but what we're questioning is the Council of Ministers ordering the Turkish Armed Forces to request. Don't hide behind the Armed Forces. And if you look at it this way, the expression is the same as the person. That's right. Our style is a statement of the laws, rights, faith, faith, history, values of the nation. Yes, our statement is a statement of faith. The rest is up to you. And in that way, we informed the PKK and the PYD, for the safety of the operation. How did those who said that there was a threat to Solomon Shah? If you're informing ISIS, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for the operation, why didn't you do so to eliminate the risk of security for the soldiers there? It's a complete failure. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0066par0188	Thank you. State Secretary of Defense Ismet Yilmaz... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0067par0195	Apologize, resign, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0066par0196	Please, Mr. Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0198	Mr. President, members of the lawmakers, I have received a motion from the Shah Firat Group to open the geneor for the Council of Ministers on 21 February and 22 February 2015, and I respectfully salute the High Council of Ministers. Mr. President, members of parliament, one of the indications that this geography has been a home to this great nation for a thousand years is Solomon Shah Temple. As it is known, the grandfather of Osmangazi was the first to know
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0069par0200	No, he's not, he's not Osmangazi's grandfather, Mr. Secretary. It's so wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0201	...and the tomb, known as the Turkish tomb, was considered Turkish territory under the 1921 Ankara Agreement signed between Turkey and France, and the Treaty of Lauzan Peace was confirmed that the judgment of the Treaty of Ankara is in effect. As a relic of the Shah's shrine, Solomon was renovated and repaired from time to time. The Turkish nation saw and carried out service to Solomon Shah Temple, which it considers to be an ancestor's trust, as a function of respect in the profession. When it was seen that the Tabka Dam, built by the Syrian government on the Fırat River, would flood the Caber Castle in 1975, it was moved to the east side of the village of Karakozak in the village of Karakozak, from Caber Castle. This great nation has always blessed those who made this land their homes. Today in this land, if we live freely, with our heads held high, we realize that we owe it to ourselves. We consider it a duty, a duty to keep their memory. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, this is a national case. Everyone has to hold on to national cases without calling them power-to-responsibility, support. According to our friend in parliament, foreign policy and national security are more of a state policy than a government policy...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0070par0204	You didn't inform us of the operation, so you informed the PKK and others.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0205	...and to take care of the state and the nation is a national matter for us. Mr. President, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, which was adopted on 2 October 2014 and 1071, has asked that Turkey's government be authorized to send the Turkish National Assembly if necessary to intervene in cross-border operations and interference along the southern territorial borders, where the risk of national security and threats have been significantly increased and the threat of Turkish security has been increased according to international law. The developments of our southern border following the time of this thesis's acceptance have proven our government's right in the issues raised in this thesis. A UN Security Council resolution has been issued on the basis of a broad operation to combat terrorism, seen by the DEA as a threat to the international community, which has emerged beyond our southern borders. Under this decision, more than 70 nations gathered and began to fight against terrorism. Throughout this process, images of the execution of many hostages, including the citizens of France, Japan, the United States and Jordan, which could not fit into any religion, morality, and conscience have made clear the extent of this threat. Turkey has made it clear that it is part of the international coalition and has declared it will contribute to the work made for this threat. To this end, he began to provide logistics and educational support for forces resisting this threat in Iraq. In Syria, he signed a contract with the United States of America, which pioneered coalition forces to train and equip the forces that would fight this battle. It is the duty of international law to accept DEAŞ as a terrorist organization and support forces to fight them after seeing it as a common enemy of humanity. You will fight to eliminate this threat, and you will take the necessary precaution for increasing risk. That's what Turkey does. Given the growing security issues and military obligations in Syria, our international rights born in Syria have been decided to move international agreements to a place that is temporarily, again, within the borders of the village of Aşme, which is protected by our security and protected by our government by our international authorities, by Turkish territory. Our 40 staff members who served at Solomon Shah Respect Station began their duties on June 6, 2014, and the staff had not been replaced in eight and a half months' time until the day of the operation. It has been assessed that this will continue indefinitely and will increase the current sensitivity. The DEAC, which also controls the area and supply routes around the police station, wanted to make an effort to negotiate with Turkey in the change operation. And that's not an option. Serious threat intel on our outpost has been received at different times. The police station area has been monitored by 24 hours of drones when weather conditions are available; when weather conditions are not suitable, the risk is increasing, and the target is not possible. However, until the Turkish Armed Forces are reinforced in an attack, the officers at the police station have been ordered to defend them to the last drop of their blood. On February 21, 2015, one tank battalion was launched in the direction of the task force, two special forces battalions, and one commando unit in the direction of Sulejman Shah Respect Station, and one tank unit at the direction of the Syrian Covet (Surra) was crossed at the same time. The tank company tasked with securing the new location of the police station controlled the area at 9:20 p.m. and was moved to the Turkish flag in the new area at 9:45 p.m. I'd also like to point out that no one in this area has any rights based on the deed. Our elements heading towards Karakozak reached the police station at 00.30, following the roadway of the DEAS terrorist organization's earlier roadblocks, the vehicles arrived at the police station area following the resolving of the road with a knife tank. Following the completion of the necessary work, elements of the Süleyman Shah Respect Station entered Turkey at 06.00, with the protection and security elements at 10.10. The allegations that nine tanks were left on Syrian soil are not true, nor are there any vehicles left behind. This is also clear in the statement made on the website of our Army Command.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0071par0215	How do we know it's true?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0216	Despite the threat that the DEAS would resist in the event of evacuation, this action has been carried out, and the DEA has failed to react in the face of the forces and determination of the participating troops. A detailed plan has been carried out and successfully carried out due to a joint operation involving the operations of ground forces and air forces. Since the Syrian airspace was also used by the planes of the coalition countries, the airspace was also needed during our operations to be cleared of the part of the air space that would be used by our planes and not be challenged by any confusion. During this operation, the arrival of our troops to the police station area has been constantly watched from the air. As our government made this decision, it took into account the extent of the risk that would be taken by our Mehmet-chik until it responded to an attack, and it chose not to take the risk where human life was at stake. In the event of that risk, there is no compensation for the loss to be inflicted. The operation was completed in Operation Shah Firat with these thoughts, with no casualties except a petty officer who was killed by accident during the beginning of the operation. Therefore, it's only right to thank you, not to file a motion for this operation. It is also necessary to act as a responsible opposition in a national case.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0072par0219	What do you know about nationals?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0220	The risk of moving our police station to an adjacent area -- the protection of rights from the Treaty of Ankara, the more effective security of the staff at the police station -- has been eliminated from the police station in Syria. There is no loss of land. If it were in accordance with international law, otherwise, the United Nations Security Council would issue a decision against our country. It is alleged that we are moving to the Council of Decision 1071, which was taken from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is not true. On 2 October 2014, Decision 1071 and Turkish Armed Forces were authorized to be sent to foreign countries for cross-border operations and intervention if necessary, and to take all measures to address risks and threats. The operation was carried out under this authority. According to this, if necessary, we will send the Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries for cross-border operations. We have sent Turkish Armed Forces to a foreign country, as we say. It's done under the mandate taken. We have demanded from the Turkish Parliament that we take additional measures against threats and dangers from the security gap in Syria; that these measures be appointed by the government of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly, and that all measures be taken in this framework are authorized by the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0073par0223	If there's authority, there's responsibility, you'll be responsible.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0224	Under that authority, we have taken the correct measure, both for the country's interests and the threat, so as not to bring Turkey into an uncertain war swamp in the Middle East. The decision here is also under the jurisdiction of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, according to the decision. There is no precedent for developments in the Middle East today. The Middle East apocalypse is today, as Mr. Shandır said.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0073par0226	Tell me when he said that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0227	It is also natural to take exceptional measures against this exceptional situation. That's the nature of the mind, of the responsible administration. Again, the motion for a gene is mentioned in terms of threats to our rights and interests when the ability to defend and deterrence is neutralized, which is not true. If the terrorist organization has destroyed and failed to touch the Shah Temple while destroying every shrine in Iraq or Syria, it is the best sign of Turkey's deterrent, or not because Solomon considers the Shah Temple sacred. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, if the terrorist organization could not touch a single Mehmet-chik, who was stationed at the police station, while taking the citizens of a foreign country in its controlled area hostage and slaughtering them with a violent display of American, French, Japanese, Jordanian violence, it is an important indicator of Turkey's deterrentism and power. This argument in motion, once again, is not true. The reason for his will is that Turkey's interests are being overcome by its will to leave the homeland, which is not true. There's no leaving will here. The necessary measures have been taken to eliminate a risk to the safety of Mehmetchik. Where there's a will to leave, there's no flag fluctuation. Again, for the same reason, the Council of Ministers, who are appealing to the debate of terrorist groups, who are resolving our rights and interests, is not true either. We carried out two separate operations in Syria at the same time, considering the possibility of interference to protect our rights and interests. We carried out Operation Shah Firat with 114 vehicles and 572 personnel, including the eastern part of Karakorak, 39 of which were tanks. We did the part of the western part of the operation with 21 vehicles and 199 personnel, nine tanks. At the same time, 14 planes were in the air, 16 planes were on the ground, at high readiness level, 59 F-16, 20 F-4 fighter planes and 26 support aircraft were ready to air support the operation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0074par0233	Did you conquer Egypt? Are you Sultan Selim Yavuz or what?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0075par0234	Well, well! Hero Ismet Yilmaz, bravo! It's a state-of-the-art service medal, Marshal.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0235	In addition, the operations area was monitored 24 hours a day by drones and drones. The size of the operation shows that it is necessary to maintain our national values, and that war is at stake when necessary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0076par0237	Against who?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0238	If the motion was true, if anyone intervened, Syria, ISIS, PKK, and PKK were true, a bus and a truck would be sufficient to carry out this operation. Again, the motion calls our army a fugitive.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0077par0240	The army didn't run away, you escaped in power. Absorption to the army.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0241	The one who insulted the commander of his own army, the one who attacked his own ruler...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0078par0242	No one's talking to the army.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0243	Mr. President, don't let the political army use cover. This decision is political.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0244	There's no other country except Turkey, a group that described itself as a nationalist and gave its name.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0245	We've been tasked with the government.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0080par0246	As for your work, the army will not interfere in politics, but when it comes to your work, you will blame it on the army. You collaborated with the parallel and imprisoned the army.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0247	We understand that the foreign forces are attacking our army, but we can't understand that our army is being attacked from the inside while the outside forces are attacking. Our people won't forgive that either. Those who make this unjust accusation against our army will be condemned in the face of history by our nation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0249	Mr. President, does the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have an outstanding service medal?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0250	If the terrorist organization is attacking everywhere in this geography without saying the border of Syria, Iraq, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia, it is because Turkey has its power. And he who does not see it, and sees it, and cannot say it - there is no mercy upon him, nor is there any blame upon him who is speechless.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0251	Because of the escape, I really don't...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0252	Again, the motion states that you have no confidence in the Council of Ministers. There's nothing more natural than a public opposition not trusting the government. Everyone knows that there is a problem of opposition, not power in this country. People have complete confidence in this government. As long as rights and people are with us, we will continue to serve the people.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0253	Where are the parallelists?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0254	The people will continue to trust and support those who serve them. The eyes of the people are scales, weighing both power and opposition in the precision of a jeweler's scale, and making decisions for both of them.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0079par0255	Your job is gold, money.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0256	Today you will die for the land of the land. Why don't you go to war? This nation has seen how sincere they are when they fight 30 years of terror. ▪ Dies for the country. When will you die today if you don't die? Those who can't say anything, those who exploit the martyr's funerals, those who say, "Why do martyrs come?" Why did the prophet die that day, and why did the politician not die today?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0081par0258	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0259	The place in Lausanne was covered by dam waters, and the place in Karakozak was moved to another place, and the place that was moved to the new place is the use of our right to be born of this international contract.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0081par0260	You need to get up there and answer, not blame the place!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0082par0261	Mehmetçik died in Turkey's southeastern province. What happened, what did you do! Petty Officer down. What happened, what did you do!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0262	Those who oppose this operation -- no doubt -- will respond to this attack in the event of an ongoing attack on our station, and on top of that, what is Syria to us? They would say, "Why did we enter the Arabian swamp?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0082par0263	You Kandilists, you parallelists!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0264	What was expected? We have prevented the war in Syria, the martyrs' funerals of Mehmetchik, the war of our country, the abuse of our country. We did the right thing, we blocked the path to abuse politics.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0083par0265	What will you do in Cyprus tomorrow?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0082par0266	We're going to pray in Sham. You said, you missed the shrine!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0267	However, I would also like to point out that when an attack on this country's independence exists, there are those who have reached the point of dying for this country, which is a ruby of every stone. They'll fight for this country without blinking a wink of a rose garden.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0083par0268	Too bad, too bad! Apologize to everyone, sorry!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0082par0269	Apologise and make amends in the history of the people. Ask for forgiveness!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0270	For us, for the children of this land, to be a martyr on this path is the greatest share that can be taken in this world, and no one can doubt it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0082par0271	As a congregation, pray for repentance.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0084par0272	You're exploiting spiritual values! Say you're sorry, Minister of National Escapism!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0273	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there is no country lost here. Turkey has not given up sovereignty rights and rights due to international agreements.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0085par0274	You will be judged, you will be judged! As soon as you're out of power, you'll be tried!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0275	In Karakozak, Syria, before our flag landed, our flag was waved in the Syrian Co-ordinator. The fact that this operation took place in a region that contained all kinds of risks shows the deterrent strength of our Turkish Armed Forces, the degree of preparation for war. Congratulations to every member of our Turkish Armed Forces who successfully carried out this operation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0276	What a success, what a success!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0277	They've shown once again that they're worthy of the right trust of our nation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0279	You've been exposed, you've been exposed, you've left your post!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0087par0280	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0281	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our government takes measures to protect the safety of every citizen and every inch of land.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0282	We'll protect the dignity and dignity of the nation, so we'll keep watch for him. You said, you ran away from the post!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0283	No one can doubt that. Let no one test Turkey's determination to protect its territory and the safety of its citizens. We've shown our determination on this path through this operation that we've carried out. And from now on, we will do whatever it takes to protect this country and this nation's rights and laws.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0088par0284	I thought you said the knife was up to the bone, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0285	God forbid it should happen to you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0286	No one can doubt that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0287	You will also flee Cyprus tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0288	The Solomon Shah Temple in the new Syrian wifeship, as I told you before, is within footing distance of our country.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0086par0289	You should have brought him to his house.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0290	I invite those who would like to read a Fatih to your apocalypse to visit Solomon Shah Temple.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0089par0291	What will you do if ISIS tells you to go there tomorrow?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0292	And there it shall be, that the mighty shall have taken possession of his Remembrance, and after that he shall continue to take care of it. In closing my remarks, I would like to say once again that due to Operation Shah Firat, a motion to file a motion for the Council of Ministers will show history that it will remain a disgrace to the donors.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0090par0295	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0091par0296	I asked if there were any tanks left, Mr. Secretary. Is there a tank left, tank?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0297	I'd like to thank everyone who's been involved in the successful success of this operation, especially our Armed Forces. In the course of this operation, I ask God to have mercy on all of our martyrs, especially our petty officer, who was killed in an accident. May their place be in heaven. Arif Nihat is waiting for a flag of wind. As the poem states...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0092par0300	You can't read that flag poem, you don't have the face to read it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0301	The hill of martyrs is not empty, its land awaits heroes/ And a flag waits for the wind to surge.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0093par0302	You sold your land and came back, country land!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0094par0303	Mr. President, don't let the Minister raise his foot while he's reading the poem. Get up!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0068par0304	Who says he's an unknown soldier on this blessed hill, the land he lies on, the flag he holds? [[Noises in MHP rows]] No doubt, Solomon Shah Temple suits the hill in Syria's Co-host; the hero Mehmetchik is on watch and the flag is waving. Happy birthday, good luck.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0095par0308	Boo! Boo!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0096par0309	Boo! Boo! You can't keep it in place, you're talking, you can't keep 20 miles away, you're still talking!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0097par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0098par0311	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0097par0312	I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0098par0313	What do you want to say?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0097par0314	He expressed that the opposition did not approve of his position on this national issue, which is a national issue. So he expressed that we acted informally.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0099par0315	This is how failure can be decorated! Apologize to everyone!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0098par0317	Here you go, Mr. Vural, and I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0099par0318	You can't represent the Armed Forces! Pity! Say you're sorry!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0098par0320	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0323	Mr. President, I'm afraid it's a real shame that there's someone in these ranks of the Council of Ministers who makes it a matter of nationality to flee instead of a national defense. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'll give you one answer. Look, the Turkish Armed Forces have made a statement: the cooperation of the PYD/PKK with the Turkish Armed Forces... that has been fighting a terrorist organization for 31 years aimed at changing the constitutional order of the state of the Republic of Turkey and we are strongly condemning the people and their broadcast organs in front of the great Turkish nation... who have given thousands of martyrs, veterans for this purpose.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0101par0326	We're on the same page.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0327	You're the one who's dealing with the PKK, you're the one who's dealing with the PYD.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0102par0329	The army condemns you, the army condemns you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0330	Here, with this explanation, he condemns your behavior, the opposition's position on a national matter...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0103par0331	He doesn't condemn us; he condemns those who attack the armed forces.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0102par0332	The army condemns you, not us.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0333	Your attitude is not national, that the national issue is that I will defend the land of the state here in Decision 1071. The motion you have brought has been drawn. Look, what is this, what is this?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0102par0335	See the flag, the flag. Which flag is that?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0336	Look, look, look, this shame is your shame.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0104par0337	Look at this, people see him and this.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0102par0338	What flag? Look at that flag over there, that flag over there. You are under the flag of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0339	The moon star flag, the shame you put in the shadow of the PKK's rag with this PKK. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] Look, look, give it up; they're clapping, they're clapping, bravo! Look, they're applauding this painting, it's embarrassing.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0105par0341	Here, look at this.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0106par0342	Pass it, pass it, look here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0100par0343	Do you have any idea where you got the "thank you" from?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0106par0344	From the PKK.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0107par0345	We got it from people.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0108par0346	We took from our people, and we took from our people.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0109par0347	You took it from Ocalan, and from Ocalan. On March 21st, the terrorist was treated according to the spirit of the wife. The thanks you received reveal whom you serve. Even that's crazy, you know. You're there as Minister of the Honourable Turkish Armed Forces, but you've been thanked by the PKK, you know, by the villain of Imran. This is the spirit of the wife, and the spirit of the wife is this surrendering mind. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is those who negotiate with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Oslo, which they call the spirit of marriage. Those who call it "the spirit of wife" are the ones who have killed Kurds in the east and southeast of Turkey. They're calling it "Milî" What part of you are nationals? Where are you nationally concerned about...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0110par0350	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0109par0351	Clearly, even those who have informed the PKK on this matter have not given any information to the opposition. Here, the axis you're meeting is the PKK axis.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0110par0352	Yes, Mr. Vural, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0109par0353	That's why you inform the PKK, but you don't inform any of the parties in Parliament.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0111par0354	On that day I said, "Let me come and give it to you." You didn't stay, you didn't wait.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0112par0356	Keep your head down and don't talk!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0109par0357	Let's go, let's go, let's go! Minister of National Escapism...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0113par0358	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0109par0359	How dare you attribute this action to the Turkish Armed Forces?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0114par0360	Pity!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0115par0361	Mr. Shandir, what do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0116par0362	Mr. President, the Minister has made some statements, some sort of taunting, referring to my name. Promise me you won't pick on me...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0115par0363	No, what did he say and pick on you, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0117par0364	He mentioned your name.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0115par0365	One moment, Mr. Vural, we're talking to Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0118par0366	Sir, what he said was, based on my statement that there was an apocalypse in Syria, he said that what he did was true. Well, that's not true, that's wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0115par0367	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0119par0368	Why are you giving it away, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0115par0369	Here you are, sir, I promise you your place, not your teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0120par0373	Dear friends, there is apocalypse in Syria. All the people who live in Syria live in the apocalypse with Turkmen, Arab, Kurdish. As the government of the Republic of Turkey, you couldn't prevent this apocalypse first, and that's a shame enough for you, that's one. Secondly, dear friends, look, you're making the wrong presentation. This is the Turkish tomb and Fort Caber, a right to international law. You gave up our international rights by leaving here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0121par0375	We didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0120par0376	Do you know why you gave up, Mr. Secretary? Fort Caber, 98 kilometers. The castle of Caber is in the west of Rakka, south of Aleppo. While the Turkish tomb was at Caber Castle, Rakka was also Turkish, and there was a village of Turkmen in the south of Aleppo. When the Turkish tomb was moved from Caber Castle, the Turks here moved north. Now, you've carried it from Karakozak, you've pawned the Turkish tomb in PKK's territory. This shame is enough for you. And then there are the Turks there, sir, there are millions of them from that building in Turkey. You can't brag about that building. You should have moved that building to Fort Caber. Caber Castle is Turkey's right to international law. You took the Turkish tomb from there, and you gave up being a Turk there. This is the real Hour. Your government has failed. He has abandoned Turkey's rights, its law, and you abandoned the Turks living in Syria to the conscience of ISIS, and now to the conscience of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), Mr. Minister. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now look, the Turkmen villages over there...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0122par0379	Yes, thank you, Mr. Shandir. Members of parliament, talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion to be filed against members of the Council of Ministers has been completed. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion for the gene question will be raised, but there is a request for an open vote on whether or not the motion for the motion to be raised.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0123par0385	They didn't see that photo.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0122par0386	Now, I'm getting the names of the clients, the MPs: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and submit that the vote of the youth be held in the form of an open vote. Sadir Durmaz? Here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0124par0392	That's it, let 'em see it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0122par0393	Please stand up, members of the law. (Mustafa Kalaycı? Here. Erkan Akçay? Here. Amin Çınar? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. Mustafa Erdem? Here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0125par0401	Take a good look. Say, stick it in your eye. You got it, Lightning? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu? Here. Faruk Bal? Here. Münir Kutluata? Here. Bulent Belen? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri? Here. Mehmet Shandır? Here. Take a good look.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0126par0410	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0127par0411	I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0128par0415	The Bayburts are waiting for you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0129par0416	Yeah, Bayburt Bayburt hasn't been persecuted like that!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0130par0417	Bünyamine, get me a glass of water over there and dust it off, come on, man. Come on, man, get some dust over here. They left the homeland, and now they're offering it like it's a success.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0131par0419	Mr. President, time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0132par0420	Time's up, time's up. Alma.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0133par0422	I don't think so. Don't take it, don't take it, don't take it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0134par0424	One minute, it's over.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0135par0425	Don't record them, open vote, don't record them. Don't record what's in there.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0133par0426	Alma, okay, don't take it, Bayram.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0134par0427	One minute is over, Bayram.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0136par0428	Yeah, why are you taking it?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0137par0429	Time's up, you're still quitting. He still takes it, he still leaves it there.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0138par0431	Members of parliament (11/50) is an open vote on whether or not the primary Gensoru Prescription will be taken into consideration: ▪ The number of votes used: 250
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0139par0436	Oh, that's the reputation of the Council of Ministers! [Applause from MHP rows!] The Council of Ministers' reputation is 202. It's an infamous Council of Ministers. So there are no MPs here. That's it, 202!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0138par0437	We are starting talks on opening a genotype of forest and waterworks Minister Veysel Eroglu (11/51) for the claim that Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz and 19 lawmakers did not protect public interest in public tenders, that some of the jobs in Istanbul were a Rant area and that they could not effectively manage forest and water assets. Government? He's in position. I'm not rereading the motion because it's been printed and distributed and read in the 77th Union of the General Assembly, dated 16/3/2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to 1 member of the Constitution, 1 MP on behalf of political party groups, and 1 minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: Seyfettin Yılmaz, Adana MP, Seyfettin Yılmaz, Adana MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; İzzet Çetin on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Ankara MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP; Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroğlu on behalf of the government. Now, the first statement belongs to Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. And also because he wanted to speak on behalf of the National Party of Action...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0140par0446	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0138par0447	Just a second, Mr. Vural, I see, I'll fix it. Congressmans, would you please sit down? Mr. Yilmaz, your time is thirty minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0452	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the practices of the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, I've spoken to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs many times here. Unfortunately, by not responding to any of our conversations, we're dealing with a minister who's just going up here trying to explain himself with paintings and graphics. I hereby declare that the last seven years he has served, as a forester and as a forest boy, are the darkest and most chaotic period in the history of forestry. Dear lawmakers have now made a deal with Turkey's Business Agency in order to receive 130,000 people at a time when the election leg is near again. Mr. Minister of the Forest, what are you going to do with 130,000 people? If you assume that Turkey has an average of 200 businesses, there are about 600-700 workers per company. Taking these as election bribes ahead of this election... we see today that AKP MPs are looking for workers from the AK PARTI, looking around, looking for headmen on this order of yours.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0142par0456	It's a draw!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0457	Now, you can't do politics on this. He says the Minister of the Forest will plant saplings with these. Minister of the Forest, do you know when the plant season is? The sapling season is over, my dear friends. On the Mediterranean coasts, the planting season is over, and in other places, there is a month of planting here. This is the death of 130,000 temporary workers you've received for six months, who will be responsible for the death of 130,000 people who will be thrown out after the election?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0142par0458	You don't want it to work? Don't fight everything when you're making opposition!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0459	Now, let me ask you one more thing: there are 8,500 temps in this department. For ten years, for twenty-five years, there have been workers who have worked with their lives at stake in fires, in sewing, in cuttings, in maintenance. Last time, you got a staff of 500 people. It's a condition of KPSS, valued lawmakers. Do you know why he brought in the KPSS condition? And I'm going to make a dozer operator out of them, and I'm going to make an arazis operator out of them. He's going to hire 500 workers. He scored 70 points from the KPSS... so I ask you, which bureaucrat's children took that job, Mr. Secretary? Whatever bureaucrats' kids got in, whoever got in, come out here and explain the list. Now, when the children of the strange guru who lives in poverty in those mountain villages are in poverty, they run first, when there's damage in the forest, they run first, when there's a job in the forest, they'll leave them, you'll say, "Get 70 from KPSS." You'll say, "Dozer, what are you going to do in the grapefruit operator" -- then you'll do verbally for him -- you'll take the children of the verbal bureaucrats, AKP relatives. Pity, isn't it a sin, Mr. Secretary? Now, I'm going to tell you something: the forest engineers did the same thing on their test. Look, KPSS was brought in during the 57th government, when the Deputy Prime Minister of State Gardens and the National Movement were in power. What the hell was he brought in for? No injustice was brought to him who worked hard and worked hard. Now, Mr. Secretary has given them the verbal test. Look, the valued lawmakers are taking 80 forest engineers. What's he doing with 80 forest engineers? 80 of them were ranked with more than 70 points, bringing a verbal test down from 100. 60 out of the first 80 can't get in. You know why he can't get in?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0143par0462	Because he's not from the AKP.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0463	Because it has to be a reference from the AKP. The minister is verbalizing with a forest engineer he's assigned. What's he gonna ask, forest engineer? Those children have been sweating for four years, they are the children of Asia Minor, their fathers' bread for four years, and their children's children are separated from their children, so that they may study in forest school and have a job. For two years, he's been waiting for KPSS for three years, he's been inside the first 80, but the forest engineer on the commission set up by the Minister is giving 40 to the 90-year-old boy who buys 100, and he's getting the rights of those kids. His own constituency is Afyon, where he is the Minister, three successful people are applying -- three can apply because one will be taken -- and three will not be taken, do you know, precious MPs? Why isn't he offended? Because the Minister's request failed those exams. Why do you eliminate those three people in those exams, Mr. Secretary? Make a measurement. What knowledge do you have of forest engineering, the Ministry of Forestry? What information does your commission have? Isn't it a shame about those kids? They've rotted elbows for three years, his father cuts food out of bread to get into KPSS, cuts it out of water, sends the boy to the school, does this, and succeeds in the examination, but gives them 30, 40. What questions did he ask? And they make me wait thirty-three days. I'm asking here, 80 people will be taken, thirty-three days after the oral test, they'll be kept waiting for the relatives and supporters of which AKP people will be taken. Now, this injustice, this unlawfulness... I got a call from an imam today -- I texted him because I gave him the gene -- the mosque imam won 87 points, his son scored 87 points. Mr. Minister's appointed commissioner gave this imam's son 35 points or 40 points and his son didn't win the exam. He says, "I cut off my bread, and cut off my family's alimony, and made my child study, with the money that I had saved from the mosque, and with the money that I had saved to make my child read. For three years, he has been preparing for these trials and has entered into the first 20. I don't give my blessing to that Minister. For six years, I gave this child all my rights, all my alimony, but he couldn't get rid of my son. He said, "Will you deliver this message to the Minister of the mosque? I'll have that imam meet with him on his cell phone. It's a shame, it's a sin! Dear lawmakers, this Minister is not expected to have justice. Why isn't justice expected? In this country, the people of Anatolia, the children of the poor, the children of the poor poor, are waiting for work, and they're looking for a job to support their homes for minimum wage, they've got a door-to-door, they've got a KPSS test, they've got an oral test, they've got Adana, they've got Mersin, they've got a job, they've got a job here, they've got a job, they've got a job, they've got a job, they've got a poor, they've got a poor, they've got a weird guru, what's done. Look, dear lawmakers, I'm expressing this to your conscience. Your own nephew, Türker Eroglu, I give you a name...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0144par0469	The one who eats or the nephew!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0470	He recruits an exception from the chief of staff, where he transfers it to the city hall as branch manager. This is your brother's son.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0145par0471	How many days?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0472	Look, it's not enough, precious MPs, what's he doing? If he asks about the congressman's son from here, I'll tell him, you know, Mr. Secretary- he's getting it from the chief of staff. Mr. Minister of Justice, former Minister of Justice, is that fair?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0146par0474	Yeah, he's the minister of injustice.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0475	He's taking him from the chief of staff, special staff, exceptional staff, starting him up as a civil servant. Look, there's something else in there, because it's low pay, and it's making the Power Market Board go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. While trying to find work for 1,000 liras, 900 liras, 800 liras, people hire 3,000 liras, 4,000 liras, 5,000 liras. Not enough, her daughter's brother-in-law... may God bless her, she's married recently, her wedding invitations have arrived for the MPs...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0147par0477	He must have sent it to the contractors.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0478	Hop, automatically... did you or did you not appoint Mustafa Haker, as a press consultant, in order for him to sue, Mr. Secretary? Tell me on this stand whether your daughter's brother-in-law or not. Not enough, he's taking the congressman's son-in-law from the chief of staff, and he's throwing it in engineering. Not enough, his own cousin Mehmet, or whatever he's been appointing as a minister's advisor. These are all relatives, there are more of them, I won't go in, there are a lot of congressmen's demolitions, and I'm not going in. Now, dear lawmakers, put your hands on your conscience. So what kind of a privilege is it to be your relative in this country, to be near you, to be near the AKP, to be the child of the AKP MP, to be the child of the AKP minister? You said we'd be poor, strange gureba... There are millions waiting in this country for work, for overpowering. He finished college, he speaks two foreign languages, he uses the computer like a storm, but even when he's trying to get a minimum wage in the sewers, tell me what's so special about your nephews. Is it true that those nephews have such extraordinary qualities that no one in Turkey has, that you use this Forest Ministry as a farm to fill in your close relatives, your estate? It's not enough, valued lawmakers, see, now this has had a staff since the beginning of Asia.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0148par0483	It's not acid, it's acid!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0484	One of them is his chief of staff, Jahan Pektaş. I'm naming it, calling it a lawsuit. Do you know who this is? He's with Mr. Minister as well as with the police department in the municipality. This is our friend Eroglu, who comes to the Ministry when he's the minister, who's the Ministry's chief of staff. The Chief of Staff's salary is around 3,000 liras, and the ministers know it. Although he is chief of staff, he appoints this gentleman as president of 6,400 additional indicators of Strategy Development, but one day he's not on duty, he's been on the payroll there for three and a half years. Now, if this money is legal or illegal, I'm asking the AK PARTI MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0149par0487	Haram!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0488	Is it enough? Look, it's not enough. There's an advisor to this in case Mustafa gets hurt, the valued lawmakers, Mustafa Yasar. He puts it on the advisory staff, and then he assigns it to the staff office because it pays more. He doesn't run for Chief of Staff one day, but he gets his salary from the Chief of Staff. Then the review board gets an additional $1 billion raise due to something special, under a decree under the law during this Minister's term; hop, Mustafa Arırşar is taking him from the Chief of Staff, making inspectors to the review board so he can get a thousand dollars more.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0150par0490	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0491	Is he going on an inspection one day? If he's leaving, let him come in here and say he's not going on an inspection one day, precious MPs. After that, he has now filled in the supporters of the AKP MPs, his own relatives as advisors, and he raises the salaries of his advisors who look at the law in one night, at 1,600 lira. Hey, where's this Mustafa taking Yazar? He's trying to pay the minister's counsel from there.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0151par0493	The Ministry didn't do it, they wrote a book on nepotism!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0494	Now, where's the justice in that? Now, I ask the Minister, what are you going to do with these advisors? Now, I've come up with a claim about Jahan Pektas. There's been a claim. Cavit, his partner, puts his villa in Umitköy for sale because his business went badly. I'll tell him who his partner is, so the Minister can explain with his things, Celal Gökchen. Cavit Çağlar's business is going bad, it is going bankrupt, and he is selling his villa in Umitköy for 3 trillion. Who's buying this villa, who's sitting in this villa? Mr. Secretary's Chief of Staff is sitting down. Who's he buying it for? It's in his aunt's name. Now, right now, the furniture from that villa, its display, is from Italy. Mr. Secretary, closest to you, you've been close since the BFF. I say we take it from here. From that day forward, let's look into the assets of your advisors. We'll see what comes out. Are you willing to explain your assets or not? Now, his other advisor, Mehmet Fatih Öznur. He's a reporter for the Weather Radio. He comes to Istanbul every week. Along with the minister, he's building a co-op that the Minister has inaugurated. What's the name of this cooperative? Preliminary Housing Construction Cooperative. It's merging with the Damla Construction Cooperative. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, did you or did you not set the foundation for this? Come in from here. Favorite Construction Cooperative, his papers are here. And you know what happens? This cooperative goes -- the minister has laid the groundwork, and the minister says he's going to follow it in his speech there -- and he's getting an $8,750,000 loan from Candybank. The contractor's being given, the contractor's not around, the buildings are stopping. There are 120 people waiting for you, Mr. Secretary, because you've laid the groundwork. Give me that answer. This is his advisor, Fatih Oznur. And I'm wondering if he's getting paid every week on that plane, and if you explain that, Mr. Secretary, there's bound to be some public knowledge. Now, there was Cemal Nogay, again, the Press Advisor to this. He went abroad to improve his language experience. Instead, he brought his daughter's brother-in-law and appointed her. Now, like this, dude, with his sergeant relationship, it's not like the Ministry, it's a farm. I'm going to ask the Minister one more thing from here. I got a bet, that's the bet. Are you using a chemical called HYPHOPHIS 50 milligrams in dams or not, Mr. Secretary? There is no need for Turkey to use this medicine in these dams. Because our waters come from the mountains, clean water. All the tests require that these drugs not be used around here. How much is this medicine? America is sold for $250. The representative of Turkey -- quite frankly, this is the bet -- is with the minister's son for $450... Now, how much did you take from here, from these drugs?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0152par0500	Not at all.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0501	What firms did you buy it from?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0152par0502	I'm going to sue.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0503	What firms, how much did you charge for these drugs? $250?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0153par0504	So, what was your question about?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0505	Did you get $450 here? We're waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0154par0506	There's these areas of Istanbul, they're still...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0507	We'll get to them. We'll get to them. Now, let me ask you one more thing, look...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0155par0509	So, what's your gene question about?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0510	That's what they're all about. That's how much corruption we're explaining.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0155par0511	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0512	So, Congressman, you're the deputy of the AKP, despite all the documents, you're still a...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0155par0513	It's not a question of youth.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0514	Here's another question for you:
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0156par0515	They've got big stomachs, big stomachs, big hives. It's a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0516	Look, the forest information system is being installed.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0156par0517	What else?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0518	Look, there's a forest information system set up for the forest service; it was put into the investment program in 2011. This is Istanbul Technical University, you know, where the Minister's teacher is, where he teaches. Sixteen and a half trillion are being transferred there without bidding. And this place is being auctioned off, so-called bid, who's getting the bid? It's a non-invasive company -- it's being bought -- it's a company called Positional Company. Who owns them? Opium businessmen. Where's opium? You know where Afyon is, don't you?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0157par0520	The Minister's hometown.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0521	The Minister's country of choice. You know what's interesting? The three-year grant here is $41.5 trillion.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0158par0522	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0523	He's on the schedule. And how much does this firm charge for the tender? That'll be $35 trillion.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0158par0524	Did they do it with 21/B?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0525	How much does it cost, including VAT? 41.5 trillion. It could be so coincidental, I mean, so much accuracy, it would be so coincidental.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0158par0526	Did he take it with 21/B?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0527	Well, 41.5 trillion won this tender. I'm asking the Minister, Mr. Secretary, where is this ORBIS tender now? If there's any activity, get out, explain it here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0159par0529	If there's a document, give it to the D.A. Give it to the D.A.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0530	Who is this firm, and who is it founded by? Who are the opium businessmen?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0159par0531	Give it to the D.A.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0160par0532	Recep, listen, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0533	Now, I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0159par0534	Give it to the D.A.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0535	Mr. Recep, of course, on December 17th and 25th, despite the fact that your thefts and corruptions have been exposed, I don't expect them to be exonerated by a mental state that exonerates them, but I share with the public what's going on.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0159par0536	Give it to the D.A., it's not a word ship!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0537	Now, a software for the cadastro is being made, valuable lawmakers, 25 thousand liras are being made directly, 25 thousand liras directly provided. It works. There's a certain amount of time going by, and it's being re-toured to a company for $1 trillion. Who is this software company? Last name Tophead, you find out who it is. You know who he is, Tophead, a famous mayor, a famous politician. So, is this system for $1 trillion working now? Mr. Secretary will be out shortly, explaining whether this system works or not. Mr. Secretary will explain later if it's working.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0159par0538	You know everything, you might as well explain that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0161par0539	The Minister forgets it, he doesn't write it down.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0540	Now, it's being done on the floor of the 10 trillion Ministry of Corruption. Look, there's 10 trillion embezzlement.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0162par0541	Who?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0542	He's embezzling 10 trillion embezzlements. Where does he spend it, the valued lawmakers? He's two or three floors below the Ministry, where he lives. I mentioned 10 trillions here. As an officer of this embezzlement, their bureaucrats signed it, their bureaucrats. Now he's suing me, trying to get paid. I'll pay the $8,000 like my mother's rights milk, no problem at all, but remember, Mr. Secretary, I'm after these 10 trillion because this is the property of 10 trillion treasures, property of the state. Where's the 10 trillion, where's the 10 trillion? Did you get it back or did you get it back? You can't have it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0163par0543	Let him pay.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0544	Oh, Mr. Secretary, we'll settle in court, but it doesn't matter, for the sake of this nation, for the sake of this nation, it's not $8,000, it's $18,000, I'll cut back on my drink, but it's the property of 10 trillion treasure, it's the property of the poor, it's the property of the poor, it's the property of the poor, it's the property of the strange guru. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, why don't you ask your minister where are these 10 trillion?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0164par0546	Number's low, number's low.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0547	Oh, that's good, throw in a contract, knock it down. Well, then what are you doing there as Minister if you can't claim the government's treasure? A minister who can't take care of government money. What are you doing in the Ministry if you don't see it?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0165par0548	You're gonna pay good compensation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0549	Let the Ministry protect the treasure, Mr. Secretary. Now, dear lawmakers, I will never enter the illegal palace, my time is short, but in exchange for the transfer of this illegal palace to the Prime Minister, there is a protocol. In this protocol is the headquarters of the forest headquarters, the building of the forest headquarters, and what's in it? These places have to be delivered to the Director General of the Forest. Now, he started the Forest General Directorate on the side of the AKP building, where is TOKI, at the Willows National Park?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0165par0551	Look, talk a little less, you can't afford compensation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0552	We'll give it to you, don't worry about it. We've left the quarters, we've left the homes of thousands of employees, we're not doing what we promised them and protocols...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0165par0554	Is the Minister talking to them?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0555	See that picture, Recep of Isparta? Recep of Isparta, you see that picture, don't you? Do you know who these are? Fisherman, fisherman.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0165par0556	You'll lose your compensation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0557	In this Gazi compound, you're going, you know, the fisherman the AKP people went to, he's left the housing now, Mr. Secretary, look, the constructions are here, I've taken pictures of -- he's building there with a fisherman and a kebabist.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0166par0558	They build villas, they don't build houses.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0559	It's made with government money, this fisherman and kebabist.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0167par0560	Whose fisherman is this?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0561	I mean, the state has money to spend on fishermen and kebabs, no money to spend on workers, no money to spend on engineers, no money to spend on peasants. Do you know what trouble those villagers have suffered in the forest villages, Mr. Secretary? Now, the mayor of the Doğanalan village called, he says we can't buy our land. He says he's been promising us for three months. He says we've activated the AKP people, the inspectors who've been sending them for three months. The Minister has nothing to do with it, the jungle peasant.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0168par0562	Why don't you just get out of the way?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0169par0563	What's he gonna do with the peasant? They love the rich, the rich.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0564	How do we recruit the minister's followers, relatives, and their children, how do we make their followers rich, he cares about the forest peasant, the worker, the officer, who doesn't have a problem with that. Now, you can finish these as soon as you can, Mr. Recep, and enjoy the fish, but on April 7th, these fish can be at your throats, so be careful with that. Mr. Recep, especially you, to this fisherman... Mr. Secretary, he defends you very much. As the first guest, invite Mr. Recep to eat a meal with that fisherman and the kebabist.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0170par0566	You know that compensation we're gonna get from you?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0567	You're hungry and you're hungry. We're used to it. Now, dear friends, one more thing I'm going to say. Look, you know there's a Parkorman in Istanbul, right? These are very important matters. Now, there was this Ali Aghaoglu, who was doing commercials on horseback on television. He's blocked the forest, he's taken over the forest, he's building condos there, and he's selling our forest in advertising. I gave him a gene, I gave him a press conference, I said: "The Minister of the Forest, Ali Agaoğlu, you're going after the jungles of Fatih, you can't go after them." Our Minister woke up three years later, and he said: "He's taken over this place from another, we didn't know it, I canceled it. He said here. Now I'm going to say a similar one, another one. You know Parkorman, don't you? In particular, let the Istanbul MPs listen. Now, this Parkorman Istanbul's lungs are now disappearing because of urbanization. Look, in 2008, the Pipesan Holdings leased this place for $4 million a year. You used to be a prosecutor, you used to be a judge, Mr. Doğan, you know. He rents his yearbook for $4 million.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0171par0570	Lawyer, lawyer.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0571	Lawyer? Do you know how much this place is worth to Aegean Tourism in 2010? It's given to 740,000 liras, so it's going to be one-in-five. We'll call it amenna, so we'll say the damage is around $4 million. Now, what are they doing, Mr. Secretary, when they give this Parkorman to this company for $740,000? Dear friends, they're holding it, they're turning it into a nature park, and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization is given zoning authority. I mean, what's going on with this place that's given $740,000 with this zoning authority? Look, I'm telling you, Parkorman, where the 200 acres will be built, the multipurpose hall, 2 floors, 1.525 square meters; the parking lot closed, 5 floors below the ground, the forest will build five floors of closed space so that the vehicles can... Not enough, camping sites, 108 bungalow villas with 200 square meters each.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0172par0573	Wow! God bless your eyes, for fuck's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0574	So you know what this is? Villa, villa. I'll tell you two country houses, restaurants, and one other thing: There's a concert space for 15,000 people. I mean, they're probably going to have Ajda Pekkan. They're going to have Hülya Avşar. They're going to listen to that concert there. Then, immediately, look, an article is written to İstanbul Forest Regional Directorate in the letter "Presently." A delegation is being formed at the Istanbul Forest Regional Directorate, and they are holding a report, headed by the regional manager. Dear friends, it says in that report that since this is against the National Parks Act, there will be logging here, there will be massacres, the natural structure of this place will be corrupted, and the ecosystem here will be corrupted. A regional director at the Istanbul Forest Regional Directorate, a team of three technical delegations. But the Ministry is writing one more article on this very quickly, very quickly. What's happening to him? It's approved with a report contrary to that report. So, do you ever wonder what happened next? That district manager who reported negatively, he's being deposed immediately so he doesn't get hurt. Look, it's very urgent here... I can give you their dates, Mr. Secretary, but you probably have them, right? I'll give you their dates: 07/01/2014, which is how many months ago, in the middle.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0173par0577	How many months ago?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0578	Ten months ago, 12 months ago. ▪ Istanbul Ministry 1 at the request of the company in its official writing with a very urgent note. The District Department has been given strict instructions. Now, I'm asking you, high-value lawmakers, whose property are you going after? What are you after? Who is this firm? Previously, before 2008, when they had no concert space, without restaurants, without villa types, you give it here for 3 million, 4 million, for 740,000 liras, and with these arrangements, you're going to make him build 15,000 concert halls, bungalow-type villas, restaurants, these... Do you have to make money in this country, Mr. Secretary? If you're going to make money, you're going to give it out of your salary, I understand it, whatever you do, but you don't have the luxury of making people rich with public resources. There are people in the market who collect bread on the street because they can't find bread in this country, because they can't find food. We have young people who commit suicide because of unemployment. Forest engineers wait months, temps wait. Because he couldn't find food in the forest villages, because he couldn't find bread -- they used to live in the woods, and now it's impossible to live in the forest -- they're all going to cities. He can't get a job, he can't get a job, but with the power the Ministry has given him, with the resources of the state, he's going to hire his own allies, his own relatives, his own property, and he's going to make someone rich who's not enough. Now, Mr. Secretary, there's a second issue, this is Hacet Creek, Hacet Creek. Istanbul MPs know, one of the most important natural areas of Istanbul. This is a place that looks like a nature park, and it's built there, dear friends, where it's built. It's been turned into this nature park all the time, and this forest, the nature park, has been given zoning authority. They're building villas like this again, they're making restaurants, they're making restaurants, they're making cafes, and there's also a Djinji Hodja behind it, Mr. Minister knows him well. Let's ask him, who is he? I've got his name, Mr. Secretary, I'll tell him his name, I'll tell him who he is. I mean, we don't have anything to do with teachers, but if you convert some values into rants, if you use them for rants, people won't forgive the conscience, Mr. Secretary. Yes, Istanbul MPs, know that Hacet Creek is retreating. Hacet Creek is being removed from the woods, heading for another point. Again, something like this, there's, of course, balloon purchases, film production, so I'm not going to go in because there's no time left for them. I can't get into other things, and when I'm promised to be bullied, I'll go to other things, but in this country, the jungle villager is hungry and in misery, he's after the forest peasant bread.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0174par0584	Who's gonna pick on you?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0141par0585	People are waiting for work, waiting for food, and for the pleasure of the Minister of the Forest, there is no way to hire supporters and attract state property. God will not accept it, nor will His servant. I believe that the conscientious AK PARTY MPs say they'll teach this minister one last lesson, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0175par0587	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0176par0590	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, we got a live feed here for seven minutes. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. We now have people watching us from every corner of Turkey, suffering from HES (as well as dams) and dams. I've just been looking at the messages, the victims of Diyarbakır Kocaköy Çayırlı neighborhood Ambar Dam, the DSI has victimized us. They're showing our 10-year-old tree three years old. They call it 490, 185. And Hesta seeketh the villagers, and the dam of Ilisu shall be watered. They've given us a new settlement, but our new settlement will be flooded before it's settled, so Hasankeyf will be underwater. After this decision made by the DSI and the government, unfortunately, over 10,000 years of history, Hasankeyf will be flooded, and the greatest natural massacre, historical massacre, and cultural massacre in the history of Turkey. Now, I'd like to ask you, friends: is there any difference between the mindset that dives into the Musul Museum with sledgehammers, even the Islamic mind that destroys historical artifacts in the Assyrian, Süryani historical settlements, and the Islamic mindset that blows up mosques, shrines, and corporations for ten years, nine years, 30 years, and historical profit profits, for over 10,000 years? There's no difference, let me be perfectly clear. Someone is ideologically doing it, someone is doing it with the greed of wild capitalism. They're both brutal, and they're the greatest loss of humanity's common values. So, unfortunately, the destruction of the United Nations' protected areas in this way is happening in Turkey with thousands of HES dams licensed and construction. I want to make it clear from here that I believe that I tell Mr. Secretary in detail about these dam victims from time to time. The policy of our party is very clear about energy and the HES, friends, and we know very well that it's not just the problem of a ministry, it's the Department of State Waterworks Forest and Water, but we know very well that HES energy investments are a process that extends to the Ministry of Energy, or even to the Prime Minister's license. So when we get the GAP project -- when we get the GAP project now -- we give the Minister of Development in the GAP project, we give it to the Minister in charge of economic coordination, we give it to the Minister in charge of economic co-ordination because it's all connected because it's not the sole responsibility of a ministry energy policy here, unfortunately, because the government is in charge of planning, construction and licens. Now, of course, from here, I stand four dams in Munzur, four dams in the area of Munzur, six in the area of Hess, Mersin Bospinar, 24 HES, Şırnak, Uludere, Uludere, 11, again in Hakkari, 5, Siirt Shirvan, Diyarbakır Hevsel Gardens, Van Falls districts, HES Levels in Hakkari, and, again, what I see is very important, is that in the district of HES, and also in the districts of Hasankeyf, again in the district of Munzir, which are important in the district of HES, in the district of HES, in the province of Hakkari, in the district of HES, in which I see as well as well as far as possible. Of course, they're not alone. When we look at it, our list goes on and on, folks. This list includes Artvin, Rize. There are streams of Giresun, there are streams of Tripoli, there are HES. There are Hessa. There are Hessa. There are Hesparta. As a tourist district, there are HESESTs in Antalya. The last, you know, in Erzurum, you've seen the resistance of women in the HES. Our people look after their streams, their rivers, their natures, they see the gendarmes, they come up against them. From here, of course, I'd like to greet the 80-year-old heroines in the last resistance at Tokat Zile. From here, I would like to greet the sister of Tortum, who resists the Hestum, and I would like to say that we stand with our fellow citizens in the resistance of Giresun, the army against the HES. Again, we see our people who resist 36 HESEs in the Left-wing Valley of Tripoli, our brothers who resist the Hesses after the gold mines of the Kazites, our people who say, "Let there be no tears of a spring." Again, those who resist the name of the Silver House, again, the Dinar Creek, and when we think about all this, there really is a beautiful possession of the environment, nature, history, all over Turkey. Why is it that when we're talking about this, for a company, the country is being turned into this and destroyed? Why are you ignoring CED reports with a regulation? Why don't you comply with the court order? If there's no law in this country, if there's no courts, you're going to exclude the local authorities, so how are we going to do what, guys? Should we call it a violation and move on to resistance, or should we use our right to rebel against corrupt governments who do not know law, as stated in UN Resolution 665? Why don't you teach us a way? If this Congress isn't the cure, if this Parliament isn't the solution, if we can't determine this country's energy policies, together, what are we going to determine? We were just discussing the operation of Shah Firat when energy plus water surrounded the entire world, as well as what happened in Fırat, Dicle, and Syria, as well as what happened in the Middle East. Yes, I give you the good news from here, my friends, that the forces of YPG and YPJ have cast ISIS beyond Fırat; and even the place of the Turbah was liberated in the operation of the Shah Fırat, even to the end of the operation, and I give you the good news. From here, I'm very clear, there's a reality in Turkey, and together, we'll continue to maintain our common values. Well, of course, he's very, very important, but we need money in the government's programme. This dollar, there was the interest lobby, there was the currency lobby, and there's the HES lobby, guys, there's a HES lobby of bag people. They give the foreign companies their HES licenses for a percentage, then they bring them together with the citizens there, and the security forces are usually the gendarmes in the country. Now, when we look from here, of course, it's not just the DSI, it's not just the Ministry of Forestry. If the last permit for licenses is the Prime Minister, if the Ministry of Energy is in charge of it, if the Ministry of Environment is responsible for it, if the Minister of Development, Minister of Economics, the Minister of Co-ordination, is responsible for the coordination, if all of these are responsible, then the AK PARTI governments are responsible for it, friends; we have nothing to hold responsible for the retail. There's a power that takes 46 plants into privatisation and needs hot money by election season, and they're aiming to make 70 billion dollars from here. Of course, in 150 companies, mining plus HES companies are very important. In fact, the great businessmen who call themselves citizens are in this pool. Of course, our dependence on energy is increasing, and the more dollars are increasing in imported energy, and we know that. But if we can't come together to talk about all these huge problems, if someone's trying to lure the country into nuclear plants, thermal plants, we're facing a situation where we have to hold all of this from TKI to the Minister of Energy, to hold them all accountable together. Now, we're looking, where do you get the highest energy slice in Turkey? He's getting it from the hens, my friends. As for the GAP project, Turkey has broken its world record when the proportion and targeted rate in Turkey is taken into account, when the world scale is considered as the source of electricity production and other sources of renewable energy coal and other sources. So there's no creek that Turkey hasn't destroyed, there's no river, there's no nature that it hasn't destroyed, there's no ecological balance. The forests of the north are being cut down, the pigs are going up to the pier, can you see, when the balance of wild nature is confused in a metropolis like Istanbul, that's what happens. Turkey, of course, has to evaluate water resources correctly, but attracting a company, chasing the country, pursuing the country's nature, its history, its history, its culture, its tourism is a form of abuse of wild capitalism as our HDP, which we will never accept as the Democratic Party of Peoples. We're very clear that we can never, ever give up our historical centers like Hasankeyf. One's roots may end five hundred years away, and they can only see themselves as historically and rootly limited to the Ottomans. But all the beauty of Asia Minor is our culture, my friends. Just as Hasankeyf was before and until the development of monotheistic religions, so will the Suryans, the Turks, the Kurds, the Arabs, and the previous civilizations. We'd like to make it very clear that when we say this, Mr. Speaker Hattushan saluted, you know, they visited, and they were wearing Hattusha's special clothes and clothes, they came to the House. Give us our names back, give us our history, our culture. They said, and Mr. Vice President gave a very good speech, and we'll take care of your history and your culture. Well, the victim's taking care of Hattusha, but why do you keep Hasankeyf in the water? We're talking to the Speaker, we're talking to the Minister...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0177par0604	We're going to make Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0176par0605	The only power that can make Hasankeyf be in Turkey, not in any other country, believe me, Mr. Minister. Now, I want to make it very clear to you that in the planning of these HES licenses, there's no planning of government planning, there's no license for construction. There are local authorities there. There's no license issued from the city municipalities within the borders of our urban municipalities. They're all pirates, illegal friends. Look, I'm telling you straight, if we get rid of the people who destroyed this nature on June 7th, which hopefully we will, they're starting to fall into each other, and they're starting to explain... Now, when we get to power on June 8th, we're going to hang onto those who squander nature with these HES dams and make them pay for the damage they've done, folks. We're not having second thoughts about that. In this regard, let no one say that the HDP came to power tomorrow and did this to us. We're going to do that, with these HES dams, we're going to destroy the mindset of Turkey's nature, history, climate, tourism, and that's our word against our people, my friends. I'm telling you, it's all about olive trees, about British companies in Gediz Delta, about cutting down 2 million trees... can your companies go and cut down 10 trees in England? Show me a big business, let Turkey go, London, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, to cut down five trees for 3 cents, 3 cents. You say honor, national honor, independence, whatever, story, story! Get out, go, do it there. But they are coming, ruining the Gediz Delta; ruining Izwar, Gediz, Gediz, Manisa, Turgutlu. What freedom, what freedom! I thought there was a principle of reciprocity in foreign relations. I'm afraid not. You know, if the Indian Chief of Seattle had written that letter in my opinion, it would have come to the 21st century, you know, in 1854, but believe me, if there's only one government in the 21st century, that letter would have gone to the government of the EC. The Chief of Seattle will send it to the right address so that it can be pasted: Mr. Davutoglu -- the Prime Minister's moved to Çankaya now -- can be Chankaya or the old address, and can also go to Fivetepe. But when Nazim Hikmet sometimes expressed his feelings, beyond the Indian chief, do you know what feels in the resistance of hope, where there are no freedoms, where the safety equation comes out, where the difficulty comes out? Do you know what Nazim Hikmet says about Robeson? They don't make us sing our songs, Robeson. / They're scared, Robeson, afraid of dawn. / They're afraid to see, to hear, to touch. / They're afraid to cry naked in the rain,/ they're afraid to laugh like a pair of teeth. / They're afraid to love, to love like our Farhad. / They're afraid of seeds and soil. / No discount, no commission, no friend's hand,/ like a warm bird, has not been placed in their hands. / They're afraid of my eagle-winged canary,/ our Turks. They fear the love of us and of the People's Democratic Party, of history, of nature, of culture, of life, of man. They fear that we will come to wash away your dams, your HESECs, your election dams. You're afraid of us. [[Applause from HDP rows]] On June 8th, we will open to you all the beauty of a new life. We will free your children and grandchildren from the destruction of these companies. We shall see the sun, and We shall show you the sun, and We shall deliver you from that which ye were wont to fall upon. Your capital mayors, your prime ministers, your presidents won't turn against each other. Everyone in this country will breathe peace, sing songs of freedom. At night -- until morning -- in this land where no woman can walk freely without violence, we promise it, we will make it happen. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0178par0615	Yes, thank you for this lovely speech. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0179par0619	Thank you. Mr. President, while Vice Prime Minister Mr. Ali Babacan was here, a plane crashed and belonged to Germanwings. It is said that 150 passengers have died, and there are reports that 39 Turks are among them. A lady named Gulizar Steel had something to do with death, but I wonder if there's a Turk who died on this plane, if you could share some information about it. That's the point of my word, thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit03spe0180par0623	Thank you. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/51) We will continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction will be on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement from Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP... Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0181par0010	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs who are now in the Assembly General Assembly Hall. I made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz, and 19 MPs who claimed that they did not protect public interest in public tenders, that they had made their place of employment in Istanbul a land area, that they could not effectively manage forest and water assets, and on behalf of Minister of the Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. I salute you all. Friends, the motion, given the gist of it, is a valid motion because, of course, it's not only the Minister of the forest and water business, but it's the place to be asked about all members of the government these days. Because just yesterday, Mr. Arinc, I said 100 things about him, and Ankara sold the parcel. He gave the businessmen illegal impositions. I will speak after the election, June 8th." he said. So even this alone is the words that the government would have to resign, especially Mr. Bulent Arinc, who would have to resign without leaving a place for the gene, and that Turkey had been sold a parcel. Of course, when the motion comes to its core, three separate issues, complex, interesting issues. At first, it would have to be a source of embarrassment from the forest headquarters of the Gazi settlement, the use of the site of the Ataturk Forest Farm, the physical deployment of the Forest General Directorate there, and now around it, where there is no tree on its right and no tree on its left, the activity of the Forest General Directorate must have been a source of activity by the Minister of the Forest. I've just studied an activity report sent by Mr. Minister in this space, from 2003-2014, where there are 9.6 per cent of the population, sir, because there are the latest figures on the forest village -- about 40 per cent of the rural population -- in the village of 21,427, he's given the figures that 7 million,26,000 forest villagers live, but when you look at that activity report, you'll think that the forest peasant lives a very happy life. But I'm a jungle villager, my village, there's no bird's end here, I've done forest work, I know the jungle village's living and working conditions, so I'm sensitive to forest areas. In that brochure, the AKP declares it increases forest areas and plans to increase them, highlightes them at every opportunity, advertises them, but it's unrealistic. Any mining activity, construction, the forests are being slaughtered. And even though the Minister of the Forest knows it well, he's really letting it go, ignoring it. During the AKP period, mining licenses were given not only for important mines such as gold mines, but even for quarryes. The number of mine permits is more than 45,000, maybe. Now, dear friends, in accordance with AKP's basic philosophy, the AKP has always been in an approach that prefers the green of the dollar to the green of nature. Otherwise, with Goebbelsian propaganda, those fed by AKP militants and AKP were able to reverse the public and explain the situation. I just told you, the Director-General of the Forest was fired from his compound inside the Ataturk Forest Farm, followed by the Minister. The staff were living in the same compound, and now, according to protocol, the housing will be moved to another location. Of course, the trees were looted, and even last year, in August 2013, during the construction of that illegal palace, some forests were destroyed due to the Ankaran's reaction, and still -- the written question motion was not answered -- the origin of a fire was not known. Now, Mr. Arinc is here. The parcel that I was talking about earlier, was legalizing illegal licenses for businessmen, while the fugitive palace did the job of Melih Gökçek registration. I mean, I wonder why Mr. Arinc didn't tell you at the time that the licensing business wasn't legal. Really, I've asked a lot of questions about this, many times, because I'm an Ankara MP. Mr. Mehdi Ekere... again, in particular, the property of the Ataturk Forest Farm has not just been looted, its revenues have been confiscated. Although the Court reports indicate that it is not right to seize its income, they continue to claim that the Ataturk Forest Farm has been disabled and has been disturbed by the name of Ataturk (Ataturk). In August 2013, 13 million liras were transferred to the treasury from Ataturk Forest Farm revenues of $394m,100,000 on 1 August 2014. I mean, there was a lot of work that Ataturk Forest Farm could do there. Now, our Ministry of Forest has told us about the 1,001 irrigation project during budget talks. I immediately thought of an escaped palace with 1,001 rooms. This is 1,001 ponds in the jungle, like the Thousand One Nights, 1,001 runaway palaces in the jungle, at the Forest Ministry's headquarters. One thing I'm sorry to say, dear friends, is that where the AKP finds a Rantfield... here, our friends have just announced that when we get to that part of Istanbul -- which I'm going to mention a little bit later -- especially in the 1,490 acres -- if the people are reacting, if the locals are reacting, don't put a mosque right next to them. They began building an illegal mosque when this illegal palace was built, and they said, "Sir, the mosque will be open to the public." Guys, we're all Muslims, can you talk about a mosque, a mosque that's closed to the public? I mean, you don't know how to send a message with such insensitive, irresponsible explanations. Again, after this fire incident, we asked Erdogan Bayraktar, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, especially about whether the Ataturk Forest Farm would be used as a cultural landscaping area, and his response was very interesting. Just like these 17-25 December corruption cases, when I'm asked to resign, the prime minister of the time should resign first, as he says now President. Here, he makes it clear why they haven't done this global landscaping area, and how the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Forestry are trying to expand these Rant fields in cooperation. Dear friends, Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz has just said that in these days he will receive around 130,000 forest workers in collaboration with the Ministry of the Forest, the Ministry of Forest. These workers are going to plant trees. They're trying, but good, but you've already committed to planting plants, so you've given it to the contractors. Besides, it's way past plant time. Now, on the one hand, tender funds for planting the plant on the side, and on the other hand, apply to this 130,000 workers for vote hunting. Between 18 and 50 years of age, whether male or female, apply, you will become a forest worker. The interesting thing is, those who apply and start work are also given a backpack. He probably didn't know about this part of Mr. Yilmaz. And in his backpack is the AKP emblem. Women, young men, and women, are on the side of the road, doing the AKP's walking propaganda. Dear friends, state opportunities...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0182par0023	And they're doing it on the off?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0181par0024	They're doing it on the off, yes, and I'm giving you your address, in Tripoli, in the off.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0183par0025	Ow! Ow!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0181par0026	Now, I'm amazed that you continue to have such a political understanding, such a sense of Rant, such a sense of voting, more understanding of voting. Really...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0184par0027	The Offians won't accept it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0181par0028	Another issue: you, Mr. Secretary, have licensed more than 90 thousand places, including roads, power lines, drinking water, employment, picnic area, city forest, educational center, health centre, religious facility. On the other hand, you gave me over 45,000 quarry or mining licenses. Now you're saying there's going to be some gardening work around here. We all travel by land. As you pass through Bolu, see how those quarryes destroy nature and the environment. So one day, instead of the green of the dollar, show some love for this green of nature. Really, Turkey needs it, and the forests have a conflict, and the jungles need it. Dear friends, really, places that are considered state forests have been removed from forest status during this period of government, and many areas have been looted in this way. Although the Forest General Directorate is responsible for protecting these forests, it is far from being able to fully fulfill its mission. When I asked a forest engineer who works for the General Directorate of the Forest today for information on this matter, what's going on? When I said, "What's going on?" One sentence said to me, "You're too late." In the nation's plundering race, the people who took the horse passed the Skopküdar. The forest was finished. There's no way you can fix that damage, it's over, the woods are already gone. Dear friends, another important issue is that during budget talks, Finance Minister announced the cost of the palace built illegally on the Ataturk Forest Farm site as $1 billion,370m. But after those days, the Ankara Chamber of Architects asked the Turkish court about the cost of the illegal palace. TOKI said the explanation of his estate would damage the country's economic interests. He said it was over $5 billion, which was the tip of the iceberg.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0185par0031	TOKI was very patriotic.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0181par0032	Now, my dear friends, when all this is going on, really, the Minister of the Forest, we pulverize, we grow our forests, we multiply, we reproduce our 21.2 million hectares of forest land. It's not believable, it's nothing but complete Goebbelsian propaganda. Another issue is about dear friends, HESbooks. Now, I'm amazed at what Mr. Secretary has to say about these HESEs. He says that he really is at peace with nature, that he does not harm nature, that he does not harm nature, that he is very happy with the people of the forest, or the people of the region, but he says that you are the only ones who don't know how much these HES have broken the creek beds, that he's exposed the erosion, that he's destroyed the forests, that he's destroyed the watering structures, the integrity of the river, that he's destroyed the rights of all living things in the river, that he's causing a great amount of trees, I think he doesn't know. Now, it's obvious that, as you call it, the HESLs are really disrupting nature's physique, but you're ignoring it. Dear friends, Mr. Minister's statements regarding the HESEs are far from realistic. I don't know exactly, but with the information I've acquired today, we know that more than 2,000 HES is currently licensed in Turkey. Dear friends, now, here, the main issue is the area of Park Forest. Now, 1,490 acres of Parkorman is first granted natural park status in 2008. Of course, in 2011, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is given the authority to build public forest parks, where they are allowed to build forest parks in Istanbul, where they are given in the 20 different places of forest rest, where they are offered for the use of the people's workplace status, where a total of 15,140 acres of state forest is converted into a natural park, and everything begins after that, which is the legal basis for their opening by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Now, here, of course, the contractors have explanations, but more important than that, the Prime Minister of that day is being made by the President of the present day, and he says, "Tell me about the coupon fields." This place is reported as coupon land. First, here... the right to run Parkorman Nature Park for twenty-nine years starting on December 10, 2010 -- let me say your name -- is rented to Aegean Tourism and Real Estate Investments Inc., through invitations, for $740,000 per year. So, a land the size of 1,490 acres is leased for $740,000. The land opens two years after the lease. Now, the owner of this firm explains what he's going to do there, folks. He's not really going to listen to the court's decision... look, he says we're going to start with Project Galataport in February, we're going to start with Project Parkorman in January. He says he will receive this license from İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, although he has announced that the Sariyer Municipality will not grant a permit for the Parkorman Project. The councilman of Sarıyer is really making up his mind. We won't give him a license. However, the county can legally block it for, like, two months. After that, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality will give the permit, as is the illegal license at the Ataturk Forest Farm. The contractor says he's not here to pass the law because he knows about her. Now, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architecture Rooms, the Association of Engineers and Architectures 6 demanding that the implementation of an implementation plan for protection and protection plan by the Prime Minister's Privatisation Administration in February 2013 be halted and annulled. He's suing his apartment. Of course, after applying for a Supreme Court of Appeals, the Council of State's Attorneys says it is imperative that the motion to conduct the appeal be halted. Now, dear friends, what kind of work ethic, what kind of interpersonal government with businessmen, and how we don't care about the decision of the Council of Prosecutor's Offices; in February, we'll do what we have to do. There, I don't know, the villas, I don't know, the gyms, we're going to make bungalows. Here, what is expected of the government, Mr. Secretary, is that we are a government here in the state of law, you have no right to make such a statement. The cease-and-restraint case connects us until the end of the trial. It should be said, but there is no sound. Of course, all members of the government know the reason for the silence, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech. Why aren't they making a sound? 'Cause it's a trade-off. It's a pool check. I mean, sometimes I can't help but say that sometimes I'm talking to the citizen: really, after some ministers within the government have been exposed and through the foundations, as all the assets of the state are transferred to individuals or institutions close to the government through such tenders, they're going to look back at the government as they go to the grave, and they're going to look at the government members as they go to the grave, what's left of the world? I mean, so insatiable, so greedy, such a great power has come and gone. May Allah save us from them. The election is near, salvation is near, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0186par0042	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the request of the National Movement Party to open a geneor for Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu, who has not done effective work in implementing the policies of protecting forest and water assets. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, are responsible for the preservation and sustainability of our country's forest and water resources. Water is the most important and strategic resource in our region because our country is not water rich. The annual amount of water per person is estimated to be 1,500 cubic metres [500 cubic m], and Turkey has to use its water resources wisely and manage them. The usage of aboveground and underground water in our country is 112 billion cubic metres. A total of 44 billion cubic metres of water can be used, including irrigation, drinking and industry. It is essential that the waters gather in dams and ponds when they are abundant for multi-purpose and sustainable management. For this purpose, a total of 970 storage facilities, including 294 dams and 676 ponds, were built and served during the twelve-year EC PARTY rule. The construction of 335 dams is still under way. Thus, facilities were built to be used during water shortages, with our capacity to save water in dams and ponds increased by 30 billion more. In our country, the amount of land watered by the DSI in 2003 amounted to 25 million per cent, while this area is raised to 40 million per cent by the end of 2015. Energy is one of the key areas where we use water resources. One of the renewable energy sources is hydroelectric plants. In order for our country's growing energy needs to be met, hydropower plants must be quickly activated. The hydroelectric potential in our country is 168 billion kilowatts. 82.5 billion of this is currently in operation. This was 26 billion kilowatts in 2003. So, our hydroelectric capacity has been increased by more than three stories during the AK PARTI administrations. Hydroelectric production has also been opened to the private sector under the Water Rights Agreement, which took effect in 2003. In this framework, 347 facilities, which have total power of 8.825 megawatts in 12 years, have been opened by the private sector, and 140 facilities are under construction. The goal is to increase energy production from the total hydropower plants by 2023 to 168 billion kilowatts. On the other hand, there have been 1,421 extremities in the ministry over the past 12 years, and there have been 1,950 cities protected from floods with 2.5 million per cent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the major activities of the Ministry is the sustainable management of forest resources. Today, the issue of forest and forestry has become globally important when environmental concerns reach extreme levels. In particular, in the past 15 or 20 years, forestry issues have been completely taken to the international platform, and forest deforestation has been clearly identified as an environmental threat to climate change and biodiversity, a life support system for people. To do so, the forest must be operated with a sense of sustainable forest management. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers continue to affect the world's deforestation and its desertification and drought, 4 billion hectares and 1.2 billion people. According to FAO data, 7 million hectares of forest disappear every year around the world. Our country is not rich from the forest. 48% of our current forests are broken. According to recent statistics, our forest area has reached 21.7 million hectares. Since 1972, our forest area has increased by 1.4 million hectares. The largest rehabilitative movement in the history of the Republic and corrupt forests began during the period of the EC PARTI, where there have been 2,400,000 hectares of gardening and rehabilitation and has been met with 3 billion 250 million saplings since 2003. This record has made our country the third largest plant country in the world since China and India. In addition to maintaining and increasing forest existence, the ministry has made peace with the people and state in forestry with its policies in the field of forestry, providing more work and food for the forest peasant. In this framework, the amount of resources that have been transferred to the forest peasant over the last ten years has exceeded 10 billion. In the production of some forest products, our country is among the first in the world, and these products have begun to be among important export pens. The exports of non-woods products alone increased by six stories to $300 million. New developments in forestry and increased industrial wood production have also triggered forest products' industry, and there have been growths in some sectors that have reached four to five levels. In our forests, the amount of space protected for the preservation of biological diversity and ecological wealth has been tripled. The number of national parks has been raised from 33 to 40, and the number of natural parks has been increased from 17 to 201. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there is no shortage of irregularities or irregularities, as reported in the efficient use and management of both forest and water resources. On the contrary, forest and water have been used most efficiently in the balance of conservation and use and service to our people. It is not true that the institution and its employees have been victimised by failing to comply with protocols in the transfer of the property of the OGM (OGM) in the Gazi compound. All of OGM's administrative buildings in the Veteran compound were buildings that filled their economic lives. One of them was never used because it was found to be unsubstantiated. The protocol for exchange between OGM and TOKI is implemented without any problems. For 450 acres of land handed over to the prime minister, protocol has been made over the cost of an exercise, and it is agreed that the equivalent building and land should be given to the OGM. In this framework, the new OGM campus was launched by TOKI. Along with the OGM service building in 82,882 square metres, one social facility and kindergarten construction are also held together. At the same time, 51 dwellings were purchased from the TOKI, and 104 acres of the Shap Institute, not a forest, were given to the OGM. With the rest of the money, the exchange will be made for new agency buildings and treasure sites in the areas in which the OGM will need. As you can see, the OGM is not an institutional injury, but OGM is much more modern than it used to be, and again, within the Gazi compound, it has its new facilities, and is expected to replace OGM (OGM) at the end of this year. The location of the Istanbul Park Forest was tendered as an indoor resting place between 1991 and 2002. In the process, the necessary infrastructures and regulations were made by the administration, and the arrangements between 2002 and 2008 were made by the operator for the status of an indoor resting place. In this area, construction and facilities were built to meet the needs of visitors, according to the development plan. In addition, the total base area of these is 14.326 square metres, along with some additional facilities, according to the agreement-approved development plan by the operator. As it turns out, there are no facilities in this area, and thousands of trees have been cut down and the forest and nature are not reflected in the public perception as if they were being destroyed. During the operations of the Conqueror Forest Nature Park between 2002 and 2009, there were many problems, both the solution of these problems and the development of new strategies, and it was completed in this direction by tendering. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) As it turns out, allegations are non-responsive claims based on concrete evidence. For the first time in years, forest workers, 18,000 forest workers were given a position during the AK PARTY. (AK PARTY) For the first time, the forest engineer was taken in the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0188par0064	You filled up the followers?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0065	Again -- my colleague knows -- nine deans of forest school paid me a visit when I was general manager.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0189par0066	Does it have torpedoes?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0190par0067	Mr. Coffeeman, do you have any strings, torpedoes?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0068	In recent years, our colleagues have shown no interest in professional tests other than KPS. Please make professional tests outside KPS. Nine deans of forest school have made such a request from us.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0190par0069	You know very well, Mr. Coffeeman. Tell me if there's any torpedoes!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0070	So -- in this sense of demand -- those who did these trials are our colleagues, the forest engineer, who have worked for years at this institution.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0190par0071	I gave you a name, a name, a name!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0072	That's why I think I'm against your... And about 120,000 of our employees... Yes, 120,000 of our workers will not only work uprightly.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0190par0074	At least don't defend them.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0187par0075	The sewing season isn't over yet. In the east, in the Inner Anatolia, in the southeast, more fields are covered with snow. They'll work in and out, and they'll work in maintenance, and they'll work in plant production. Thus, our forestry has been supported by 120,000 workers to work in forestry, six months outside the budget of the Forest General Directorate. We should thank the government for that as forestmen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Therefore, I hereby declare that we are against your client, and I salute the High Council. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, MHP APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0191par0078	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0192par0082	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, if he's going to resign, we can withdraw our motion, so we'll withdraw it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0193par0083	Maybe he'll tell you he's quitting now.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0194par0084	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a promise to him about his geneorization that I've been given. In particular, when I look at the reason why I'm being given here, I actually thank them for having been able to explain some things, but first, I want to stress this in particular. Now, it is said that other than the principles of the Public Contraction Agency, there is no transparent tender. Look, I'm a guy who became a BFF General Manager in 1994. Before me, two years ago, I started buying chlorine at a tenth of the price of chlorine. Two: Look, I've laid out 1,500 kilometers of drinking water and Jesus line. Look, I'll tell you how much the pipes cost. Look, before me, two years ago, when there was 60-65 percent inflation, it was 1,800 millimeters in diameter, so it was a spiral-induced steel pipe about six feet in diameter...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0195par0088	Spiral or steel?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0194par0089	...for 50 million TL, but at the same time, we began to buy it for 22 million TL after two years.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0195par0090	Stitches or spirals?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0194par0091	Other than that, I'd like to tell you a story about ducatyl font pipes. Before me, a 100-lead ducatyl font pipe was purchased from abroad, and their prices were more or less 28 Deutsche marks.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0195par0092	Who was there before you, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0194par0093	We've already started buying at a much lower price than those prices, less than half, we've started buying 11 Deutsche. In fact, here, if you'll excuse me, I've decided to write my memoirs on this occasion. Look, at one time, there was a loan from the past, about 5 million Deutsche marks, they said: let's use this loan, but we'd like to give it at the same price. The company official -- the foreign firm -- and his representative -- they said, "Let's give it at the same price. I said: I won't take it at the same price, you know, we'll take it at the same price -- 15 percent if you don't want to take it -- if you don't want to take it, I'll get it at the same price. They speak German among themselves, and they say, "Ya, this will be a scandal, we'll give 15 percent. They offered me 15 percent. I said, I won't take it, you'll lose 15 percent." So, look, we're like this, where we got it from. [Applause in MHP rows]
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0196par0094	How many years ago did this happen, Mr. Secretary, how many years ago?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0194par0095	Look, I'll tell you this, and you'll be proud of it: Look at the state of Istanbul!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0197par0096	I wish you'd stayed there.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0198par0097	They won't understand. They won't understand. They'll understand.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0199par0098	If you'd stayed there, you'd still have the same sensitivity, and when you got here, things got a little complicated.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0099	So it's not you who appreciates him. Look, he went back to Kerbala. The administration before us couldn't open a single facility. We've opened 600 facilities. We built all the dams, the Jesus lines, the giant decontamination facilities. Look, I'll just give you an example. I'll be back soon. I'll be right there. Before we did, you knew about Homeboy, didn't you? Yuck-a-kum-yum-yum-yum-yum-yum. You're bragging now, Mr. Secretary. They've given us the treatment plant for 128 million TL in the nest, $148 million in the record.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0103	Where?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0104	Its capacity is 400,000 cubic meters per day, classic system. Using our own technology, we built a much more advanced drinking water treatment facility in Two-fifty, with greater capacity, more advanced technology, 420,000 cubic meters per day, for only $12 million. That's the difference. Look, if you open this up to me, we've shut down complete strangers, we're doing it with our own technology, and it's really perfect. Just in case you're proud.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0105	There was something in Afyonkarahisar with someone from Qatar, a golf course, what happened?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0106	They came to visit me once from Moscow Water, the Sewer Authority, colleagues. First they wanted to show off, and then they wanted to show off, and they said...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0107	You know that golf thing in Afyonkarahisar?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0108	Listen, I listened to you. Respect, listen.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0109	Tell me about the nephews!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0110	Look, it's interesting. Let me tell you something you'll be happy about. They came from Moscow's Water, the Sewer Management, and they said: "We have a line so large that it has two meters [2 m] in diameter, that I had installed a drinking water pipeline, 42 kilometers, 23 km from Omarli to Çamlıca, approximately 80 km [80 km] in diameter. I said: "We have two meters and twenty centimetres in diameter of Jesus lines." He said: "We have a dehydration plant so large that we have a dehydration plant that will purify 1 million cubic metres of water. I had just built a giant tunnel from Maltepe to Salt. In its 1,200,000 cubic metres capacity, when they said there is a very advanced water treatment plant, they stopped once again, and said: "We have waste water tunnels that run through a truck four meters [4 m] in diameter. I said: I had built giant tunnels from Maltepe to Salt. I had built four metres [4 m], and I heard a huge tunnel, and I was proud of it. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, MHP APPLAUSE] Look, my dear Regents, let me tell you something...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0111	But why couldn't you do 5 meters?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0202par0112	They can't understand, Hajji. They can't understand.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0113	Wait a minute, now, look, if you'll excuse me... who's doing all this? I proudly said that our country's engineers are building contractors.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0201par0114	Oh, you didn't, the engineers did, and I thought you did!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0115	The project belongs to us. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] After that, after that, after 1997, our contractors started all the infrastructure in Russia, and then they entered Algeria.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0203par0118	Haven't your contractors been to Russia before, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0119	Thank God, we are particularly aware that if the contractors in Turkey have actually moved up to second place after China.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0204par0121	Applause!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0122	Now, my dear brothers, of course, if I'm going to tell you about the BFF, I've decided to write my memoirs, and I'll start right now.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0204par0123	Oh, well, then, if you're starting a memory or something, let's shoot the gene.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0205par0124	It's only been two semesters, Mr. Secretary, isn't there another one?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0125	Look, now, my dear friends, I've come to the DSI. When Mr. President was Prime Minister, the whole matter was over in Istanbul because we had finished the water issue, the Halic, the infrastructure, the entire sewage system, all the water treatment facilities, and we had built the most perfect facilities that I would be proud of. Our own technology... while I was teaching at the technical university...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0206par0126	Hodja, sing Haliç, sing Haliç.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0127	The estuary is easy. Now, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you one more memory. When I was head of major science at technical college...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0207par0129	Istanbul or Star?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0130	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0208par0131	Come to the nephews, the nephews.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0207par0132	Sir, is it Istanbul or Star?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0133	When I was head of main science, Turkey did not have a proper wastewater treatment plant, no modern drinking water treatment facility. I was, unfortunately, showing my students the dialogues I'd taken from Stuttgart, this treatment facility, this one, this one, this one.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0209par0134	When was the Ivedik Purification Facility built? Tell the truth, Mr. Secretary, it's rude. When was the Ivedik Purification Facility built?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0135	But let me tell you one thing I'll be proud of: once we've built a very modern drinking water treatment plant in Istanbul, wastewater treatment plant, the world's most excellent facility -- one day the head of the Institute in Stuttgart called me: Professor Eroglu, you have the most modern facilities, our graduate studies, our doctorates can come and study you? That's really the greatest joy I've ever heard in my life. That's it, that's what you're gonna be.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0210par0136	Will that be included in the memory, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0137	That's going to be in the memory, don't worry. I'll record your conversations as well.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0211par0139	But, Mr. Secretary, in what government era did this happen?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0140	Now, sir, let's cut to the DSI. I know you've been bookmasters, and I know we've worked together, and thank you Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Now, sir, as for the DSI, do you know how many quadrillion we've made 700 tenders? 82 quadrillion, found in my lap. So, what's the investment fund? Two quadrillion. 82/2=41 years. At that time, a stream of correction was not over in 15 years, and there were even grants for $1 million in trace funds. How much is $1 million now? One lira. Thank God we were not overwhelmed by this burden. I traveled all over Turkey and corrected all the projects. And that's when, in 2004, when the Prime Minister's office was competing among the best-users of public resources, I made an offer of 3.2 quadrillion. Yeah, it's got a budget of 3.2 quadrillion. Thank God it's in the Prime Minister's archives. How is it, when they ask, "Is there a zero error?" I send the whole list, saving, correcting the wrongs, increasing the tenzilates.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0212par0141	By zero, you're taunting the government. So, what do you mean, reset?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0142	In conclusion, I'll tell you this: This is how we got 3.2 quadrillion dollars back at a new price. Thank God for that. What did we do with it? He just told me what we did with it. So far we've offered 2,371 giant facilities to the service of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0212par0143	The Ilisu Dam was to end in 2014, what happened?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0144	I'm packing it up right now, so let me clean it up. If I tell you this, it'll be morning, I know, I don't want to waste your time.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0212par0145	We'll wait. It'll be fine. It's important.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0146	The water issue: Look, if we hadn't thought big, we would have had seventy-seven cities without water today. From Mardin to Şırnak, from Edirne to Kars, from İzmir to Mersin, from Sinop to Afyonkarahisar, all the cities were thirsty, thank God... we have to think big.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0213par0147	Did you also make the rains rain, Mr. Secretary? Did the rains come from you?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0148	Look, it was dry last year, did we give you any water shortages? Thank God we didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0214par0149	Nothing, nothing!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0150	I'm sorry we didn't put you through it. Now, look what we're doing with this, I'll just tell you this: look, I've pulled out all the ponds before us, and an average pond 30 meters high has run out of 45 trillion dollars in twenty-two years. And we, look, we're going to end up with $4.5 million in 18 months, including watering the same pond right now, that's the difference.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0215par0153	Bravo, applause!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0154	I mean, I don't have to talk about river reforms. Let me tell you about the wooding.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0216par0156	Tell me a little bit about the teenager, Mr. Secretary, about the teenager.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0157	Dear Regents, about the wooding, look, we've brought 3 billion 250 million saplings into the ground. And I thank the guys before us, but the average plant production before us was 75 million a year, and we started producing 401 million saplings, even over 500 million in a year. So now we're putting trees all over the place. Our forest presence has increased, up to 9,000 hectares have grown, and wood wealth has risen from 1.2 billion cubic metres to 1.5 billion cubic metres.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0217par0158	You've really grown a lot of saplings!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0200par0159	In fact -- you don't appreciate it -- when the OECD Secretary General arrived two years ago, he said: "Turkey is the world leader in the fight against deforestation and erosion." In 2011, the World Forestry Summit and Forum were held in New York for years in the United Nations World Forestry Forum and Summit in Turkey. What's more, we built the World Water Forum in Istanbul. There's more, this year, God willing, in October, the United Nations Fight for Desertification and Erosion 12. They agreed to the Conference of the Parties to be held in Turkey. They don't fall in love with our black eyebrow, our black eye, they come to the success of Turkey. I hope you'll see it, too. Don't worry, I'll write it down. Now, dear friends, of course, there is much to say. In fact, I thank Mr. Osman, and he said that, but right now we're going to have all the road edges, hospital courtyards, graveyards, temple courtyards, we're going to keep putting up trees. Why are 1200.000 people employed? Sir, the ICRU is taking it completely, so it doesn't say which party is on anyone's forehead, it's all by choice... Now, the second...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0218par0163	Read all about it, write all about it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0219par0164	Read all about it, write all about it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0220par0165	It's not written on your forehead, it's on your reference, it's on your reference!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0221par0166	You're tagging!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0167	I don't know. I mean, we don't leave justice, we don't leave justice. Therefore, not only will these be used in tree planting, but also in maintenance services, but also in the areas of the nature protection national parks, which will also be used in maintenance of some of the facilities of the DSI, some of its green areas, for six months. Other than that, we got the most forest engineers, we got the most staffed workers, thank God.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0223par0170	Minister, what happened to forest engineers, torpedoed forest engineers?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0171	Other than that, about Istanbul, about the jungles of Fatih, Osman Bey explained very well. Guys, this place is all auctioned off. There's nothing going on right now. The Department of Environment and Urbanism can't build there as much as they want, because long-term development plans have to be appropriate. That's what friends know.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0223par0173	Can you tell us where the forest engineers you interviewed are?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0174	Other than that, other housing and buildings are already being built, you'll probably see. In fact, I did, but I'm not gonna show it to you right now. The buildings are magnificent, the forest headquarters building is being built because the existing buildings were built in the 1970s, unrestrained to the earthquake, and even the largest building was evacuated due to the risk of earthquakes. The facilities are beautiful now, and we're doing the housing, and we're going to keep doing it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0224par0175	Tell me about the teenager.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0176	Other than that, of course, the concerns of some of the issues your friends have said about some people will already open the case. For example, a treasurer has committed corruption, we're the ones who detected it, we're the ones who sent it to court.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0225par0178	What about the money, 10 million? What about the government money?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0226par0179	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0180	He's out of office and he's in jail. And he'll get paid, of course.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0225par0181	Where?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0182	Yeah, but it's our job to catch him. Busted? We got him. In fact, when there were some allegations about it, there was a lawsuit filed against them, and the lawsuit was won. Dear friends, I mean, of course, there's a lot to say, but let me put it this way: thank you, at least you've been able to explain them. And my memories, what I've been through, what we've been through, and what we've been through, thank God for writing them down.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0227par0184	In the African jungle?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0222par0185	I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you, thank you. Thank you all. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0228par0188	Yes, thank you. Talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene is on the agenda for Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0229par0190	Well, he didn't answer any questions about the allegations. He went to Moscow.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0230par0191	What about our allegations, Mr. President? Mr. President has never responded to our claims.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0229par0192	He spoke of Moscow.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0231par0193	They had memories in the African jungle, too, if he'd told them.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0232par0194	People get it, they get it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0233par0195	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion for a gene will be raised, but there is an open vote. I'm detecting lawmakers demanding: Ali Öz? Here. What's not to be afraid of? Here. Oktay Vural? Here. Sadir Durmaz? Here. Erkan Akçay? Here. Celal Adan?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0234par0202	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0233par0203	He's taken over. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Mehmet Shandır? Here. Mehmet Günal? Here. Amin Çınar? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu? Here. A scholar's Light? Here. Mustafa Erdem?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0235par0212	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0233par0213	They took over. Münir Kutluata? Here. You got it, Lightning? Here. Rusar Demirel?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0236par0217	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0233par0218	They took over. Zuhal Topman? Here. Ali Halaman? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0237par0222	I can't help it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit04spe0233par0223	They took over. Safik Ugly? Here. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (11/51) As a result of a clear vote on whether the primary Gensoru motion will be raised: [[x]] So the motion for the geneorization has not been accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0233par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We begin talks on whether İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter and 21 MPs (11/54) will be able to complete the FATHIH Project on time, and whether to open a geneor for National Education Minister Nabi Avcı (11/54) on the agenda. The government is in place. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 80th edition of the General Assembly, dated 19/3/2015. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I read the names of the members who have been quoted: Proposed owner Engin Özkoc, Sakarya MP; National Education Minister Nabi Avcı on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Fatma Nur Serker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Murat Yıldırım on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Murat Yıldırım on behalf of Murat Yıldırım, Çorum MP; Milli Education Minister Nabi Avcı on behalf of the government. Engin Özkoc, the Deputy of Sakarya, now with the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0238par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. The Turkish Education Association says the effect of technology on student success in education is only 1 per cent. The percentage of the teacher's education in the FATHIH Project is only 1 per cent. Why? That's because teaching isn't the door to a runt. The technology of tablets distributed to students through the project is only four years. An investment of 8.5 billion will become technological waste in four years. So, what would have changed if this had been an investment in 8.5 billion teachers? Finland successfully applied this, made its biggest investment to the teacher, Finland in the 1st case of the PISA exam between OECD countries today. He's been on the 1st since I couldn't remember for many years. What about Turkey? He's been in third place from last to third since I couldn't remember for so many years. What was your criteria? Is that the tablet we're talking about? What does Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, say? The use of the tablets in the field of education is terrible. It says that education cannot be conducted with a device that does not have a manual. It says that students do not just read. It says that trials by handing out a device to students have been very unsuccessful. It says that all education curriculum and teachers must be changed in this case. Does this criticism make you think? You have fulfilled 10 percent of this project. Have you ever bothered to consider the impact of this project on children's education? In all the countries of the world that are successful in education, teachers are invested. And in our country? Tens of thousands of teachers are waiting for the appointment. For what? To do their jobs and get paid. We're short 130,000 teachers. We're gonna get the teacher to work, we're gonna train the teacher, we're gonna get the teacher to major in grad school, we're gonna major in their studies. We're not going to hand over the training to you, we're going to put it in the hands of the teachers. That's how the world does it. That's how we'll do it in our own power. You? Your intentions are different; you don't want success in education, you want success in Rantta. Proof? Okay, so you take the tablet, you give it to the student, and why are you taking the tablet out of the Public Contraction Act? Why are you putting him in a suspicious position? On what grounds would a public purchase be removed from the Public Contraction Act? Is there a natural disaster, an earthquake, a state of emergency, or is this about national security, intelligence? None of them are. It's your ally and you. With this tablet, with education, with your so-called goal, the equality of opportunity in education... You tried to hand out tablets, you couldn't even do that. You closed the classrooms on charges of saving the system in the exam center, and we're doing Anatolian high schools for all of the upper secondary schools. You've made the country's pre-schools look like tatters with a much more expensive and more complex system than the classrooms. There used to be a middle-class and poor student's way out, and now you've blocked all those roads. Unfortunately, the poor student and our middle class students no longer have a way out. Only those with money can go to prep schools. From now on, our children from Anatolia will no longer be able to study at the Middle East, at Boğaziçi University, at large universities. Kids from colleges, prep schools, they're gonna get this opportunity. You've made education more test-oriented. You've made the exams questionable. You don't have a single test that isn't questionable. In Turkey, you did the education system for the poor, not for the people, but for the rich and for the allies. What happened? Were you cheated? You used to have a cryer, now you don't have one. I think it's time to quit. Our nation now sees these facts. June 7th is the time for you to say goodbye, you must understand that. You can't run this state, you can't manage national education. You show up in every field that you can't rule, you say: "They've deceived us." If you're so incapable of cheating, stop running the state because there's a Republican People's Party that isn't weak enough to rule the state. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0239par0019	Thank you. Zühal Topcu, Ankara MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0240par0023	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party's National Minister for Education on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. Yes, access to education and education in all areas involved in education in 12 years continues to be our country's most important problems. And right now, it's the agenda of the genome, which is still a FATIH project that neither we understand nor national education understands what is happening, that parents or teachers don't understand. In particular, the FATHIH Project has turned into a failure of years, even a hundred years. Because in the first place, the TÜBITAK, the Ministry of Transport and different ministries have interfered with the project using political means to get a share of the current funding, and turned the project into an insurmountable state. Over-interference in the ministry's affairs has now become uncontrollable, and business processes have begun to be manipulated according to the commercial interests of the firms. In addition, the Ministry of National Education would patent it as the designer of the so-called interactive smartboard in the FATHIH Project, and the Ministry would receive income from it. It's still unknown where he's at. In protocol, TÜBITAK would produce software and modules for the FATHIH Project. This has been transferred from the 2013 budget to the $20m TÜBITAK budget. There is still no software available that has been completed and has been used by teachers. No data has been produced on the tenth grade applications of 600,000 tablets taken and distributed in 2013, only tablets distributed, no control. Tablets distributed in 2011-2012 were thrown into the bin. In short, as in other applications, the National Ministry of Education is drifting like a derailed train in the FATIH Project, and all Turkey and power are watching. Of course, this derailment is not only present in the FATIH Project, but in all other projects, this is seen in all projects where the Ministry of National Education has taken over. In particular, according to reports published by international institutions or organisations every year, we are both far behind in areas such as education quality, technology use, engineering, science and mathematics, and we go back from the world standard and from the world standard every year. Because the PISA results reveal the qualities they have when they allow our students to compare with other countries' students. In particular, according to these tests to measure the basic skills of 15-year-old students organised by the OECD, 45 is a disgrace among 65 countries. In particular, we can not take the lead in global competition or production by losing more and more blood in 12 years in our country. The European Commission's report on the abandonment of education in the European Commission, and believe me, the results are very remarkable. It's obvious that we still don't have enough success in the education of girls. According to this report, 40 per cent of girls in Turkey and 35 per cent of boys leave education early. According to this, the statement from the Ministry of National Education is very funny, very serious. In response to this report, the National Ministry of Education has responded by saying that our schooling rate in education is this, this, this. As such, really, 224 per cent funny numbers. The values that can't be compared to each other are given in exchange for each other. You need to get out of this comedy. Indeed, the meraam must be understood much more accurately and clearly. We'd like to ask the National Ministry of Education authorities if we don't have more reasonable, sensible answers to give according to the international test results. Again, when we look at the World Economic Forum's 2014-2015 Global Competition Report, it's 96/th place between 144 countries in terms of legal rights, at the 94th place in terms of the quality of elementary school education, at the 89th place in terms of the quality of education, in terms of science and mathematics education, we're in the 98th place, and there are so many examples that we want to return to what is in our country again and what needs attention. Especially last week, the YGS results have been released, and maybe your kids have been here, and there's no need to hide that the results are too severe. Believe me when I tell you, I'm ashamed for the AKP, for its 12 years of execution, because for four years, we've lost the feather in our language here, and we've kept saying that the test results, the quality of the students and the quality of the school are losing national education. But no one has considered it. Now, we're looking at a significant increase in the number of students, especially when we look at the YGS data of the SNS, who can't get past the threshold score. Students who have passed over 180 dams have dropped 75% last year to 70 per cent this year. So what does that mean? Of the 1,944,000 students, nearly 2 million who were counted, 575 thousand failed the threshold. Well, I wonder what kind of training we do when the Minister of National Education puts all the papers in front of him, even now that he's beyond the Ministry, the power has to take off its hat and put it in front of him and do a test. Because children born in '97 and '98 were destroyed by this educational system. Every year, they face a change in exams and face a change in the system. As we look at the percentages of students crossing 180 dams in 2010, the percentage of those crossing the dam was 82 per cent in 2010, the percentage of those crossing the dam dropped to 79 per cent in 2011, 73 per cent in 2012, the percentage dropped to 68 per cent in 2013, while in 2015 it was 70 per cent in 2015. Really, it's a sad painting. There appears to be another increase in unaccounted students. The number of students who failed the 140 dams was 165,000 in 2015. What questions could these children not do, or should they do? Because the CSI and the National Education were insecure, they couldn't even share statistical data. After sharing the results of this year's exams, the results of the examinations have been announced without their permission. But even though we keep asking, there's no word from the Ministry of National Education and the SNSM, even though we ask for success situations according to the provinces, according to schools and according to gender. And that's nothing more than an attempt to hide behind failure with such things. And in 2011, when we look at the average answer to questions, according to the courses, the size of the oasis is increasing. In 2011, the average test of Turkish questions -- I draw your attention, my dear friends -- was 21.9 questions, but in 2015 it was 15.8. I mean, the kids, on average, answered 15 questions out of 40, and they answered them right. I mean, this really needs to be brought up as a national problem. Again, in 2012 -- this decline is increasing by the years -- this decline also shows itself in mathematics. Again, from 2010 to 2010, 11 questions were solved in 40 questions in 2010, while children averaged five in 40 questions in 2015. Again, when we look at science, the right question average for 40 questions, which were 4.6 in 2010, has dropped to 3.9. I mean, 3,9 out of 40 questions, these guys are doing four questions right. This has indeed revealed the quality of education and the reasons behind the insistence that I not reveal the results of the examinations. Because behind this thought - inspiring table by the YGS, we can also see that the exam system has been changed five times in 12 years and another five times the Minister of National Education, six times the undersecretary's change. Indeed, as the Minister pointed out, the National Education has been turned into a puzzle board. But in a positive sense, it's not a puzzle board, it's a system that's always been run by horses, and it's not important enough to leave to the educators. Increase quality in education isn't about handing out tablets. Remember when you first left, when you distributed the tablet, this educational system would have jumped ages, but we found that, let alone these tablets, we can see that many negatives in human dimensions come to light, even in educational environments. Now, what we want to ask you is, how are you going to face these kids who started school in 1997, 1998, and are now coming to college? How do you express yourself? How can you say I'm sorry? I mean, how are you gonna get out of this? What are you going to tell these kids that you're breaking up with them? What are you going to say to their families? How will you pay for this generation? Again, especially in the transition to high school, they faced the same problems, especially when they were turned into a test board. The tests, which began with the entry system in 2005, were translated into the OKS in 2005, named SBS in 2008, and began with the OSES since 2009, and later turned into TEOG. Now, we're looking at it, and in the YGS, there's no more than 50 percent of solving questions in any field. Last year there were categories A and B, and this time the category B was removed. We don't know what's going to happen again this year, and we're now waiting for statements from the Minister or the National Education bureaucrats to tell us what changes we're going to face. Now, we ask: When there is about 43,000th in the TEOG exam, the 7th student with 7 wrongs comes in the YGS exam. What kind of a recession is this, I mean, what kind of test is this? We're waiting for an answer now. We're not getting any answers from the questions we're asking by the Ministry of National Education. Again, I'd like to continue with the test scandal. Especially on the college entrance exam, the YGS exam, where children are treated like potential danger. The tiniest lack of paperwork for children is costing them a year or a future. The test is conducted in such a despotic environment, in such a surrounded environment that children are not even allowed to satisfy their normal needs. You, on the other hand, allow questions to be stolen, you recklessly hand out all the staff without exams, you provide university entrances without exams, you don't allow the student who's excited to take the exam to go to the bathroom. What kind of a recluse is that? How do you see these kids as potential criminals? After that, are you happy to see the students pee their pants because they don't go to the bathroom? Or after you've been tested, half an hour later, forty minutes later, you come in to the boy with the wrong test papers. You can take him out without making any excuses, without asking for any other papers. That's not even done in any autocratic country. And then you don't answer, and you can ruin a young man's future, and then you can't even say you're sorry. This doesn't happen in any country. My dear friends, empathize, imagine this happening to your own child. This has happened to many students, who have been taken off the exam or were not allowed to take her medication on the test due to her illness. I mean, it shouldn't be that easy to ruin a teenager's life. These things need to be reconsidered. And we say that the national education system needs to be reconsidered, and, again, the OECD's 2014 research was given statistically that Turkey is at its worst in terms of neither education nor young people who are not in working life. According to this, 22 percent of young people between 15 and 19 years of age and 36 percent of young people between 20 and 24 years of age are neither in education nor in working life. I wonder where these young people are. I mean, who are these kids? Does the Ministry of National Education ever wonder who these kids are, where they are, what they're doing? And it's also shown that these numbers are increasing more and more over the years. Again, over the last year, especially with the tolerance of power and administration, there has been a rise in events at universities with concessions, and I want to point out that it's been reported in all the media that a terrorist organization has sabotaged education in schools, caused incidents, and the administration has tolerated them. Tomorrow, God forbid, colleges can be turned into bloodbaths, we warn the government from here, we want to draw attention from here. Instead of calling them opposite-group students, we would like to warn you that a terrorist organization is invading schools and that security measures should be taken against them. So what we're saying is that the injustices you've done in the appointment of teachers or executives need to be cleared. Again, again, the bag was seen at the law talks yesterday, and they were reassigned as teachers, but we say, please don't appoint teachers as political materials; how much do you need, 90 thousand, 150,000, appoint them; this country's education system needs to be redesigned from the start, and in this street, respond to the needs of students from universities or National Education. Yes, AKP power, you've come, you're going, you've done nothing in national education, you've destroyed institutional culture in 12 years, as you haven't done. You've done as you please, but where we call conscience, where we call right, where we call justice of the Lord Omar. And what matters is right and justice, we stand by justice and justice, and we can say that the AKP did the greatest injustice, especially in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0241par0048	Thank you. Erol Dora has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0242par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the motion that Mr. Fatma Nur Serter and his friends, the Istanbul MP, were unable to finish the FATIH Project in time, and that Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education, has been silent about the corruption of the project. I salute the General Assembly. The two basic requirements they prioritize in determining and implementing the education policies of capitalist nations are the basis of capital capital and ideology that dominates the state. On this basis, we can describe the educational system of capitalist national states such as Turkey as the process of raising the human power that capital needs and ideologically molding society into a specific pattern. The educational system operates as a means of elimination and dissolution while developing manpower in what capital needs. Dear lawmakers, this discrimination is determined based on the student's socioeconomic class, language, identity, faith, gender and sexual orientation. Central trials, interviews, routes in the education process reveal the exact basis for fulfilling that goal. Almost all of the children of wealthy families will receive high income and will receive an education that will help them, while the children of poor families are either unable to go to school or those who go to school are referred to vocational schools, imam-hakims and vocational institutes. So, as a whole, rich children are being led to schools in the framework of these ideological and political preferences, where they can be more successful in the future, and the children of the poor are being forced to face fewer opportunities, more difficult conditions, as a destiny. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this education system basically deepens and increases these inequalitys day by day, where it will eliminate existing inequality in the community. So up until now, the existing applications in the educational system have increased and increased these inequalitys rather than reduced them. The second thing I want to focus on here is that the sovereigns consider their political and ideological perspectives as a means of transferring them to the whole community and to the future. In other words, the education of political authorities considers it a process of shaping society, mediating and constantly interfering. On this basis, the government is going to make sure that children, young people, the whole community thinks as they do, believe as they do. There are constant interventions in education to create a society that will be grateful, whether it is hungry or thirsty instead of a thinking, interrogating society, whether it is subjected to labour exploitation, police violence every day. The central power disciplines, digests, encodes, alters, and ultimately eliminates those who don't think, believe, and don't live like themselves. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main problems of the education system in Turkey is the issue of textbooks. Through textbooks, it is possible to discuss the boundaries of formal rhetoric in a country, the power relations in the country, the relationship between education and democratisation or social conflict. In this context, the concept of national identity fiction in Turkey and the concept of domesticity must be subject to comprehensive analysis within the framework of basic rights and freedoms. In a country, textbooks can contribute to the expansion of fundamental rights and freedoms, the enrichment of students' perspectives, and social peace, or on the contrary, they can increase social conflicts and inequality, rather than solutions, as well as problems. Dear MPs, the understanding of us in the textbooks that have been studied in Turkey, the study reports on the subject show very clearly that it is written with a sense that singles and sterilizes children's perspectives. It is also far from developing a pluralistic perspective and a sense of democratic citizenship. In this framework, Turkey is often one of the most important problems of the education system and in private textbooks, a matter of developing a system and horizons that will allow people who are different from the language of Turkish and religion of Sunni Islam to live together on the basis of equal citizenship. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, Turkey is trying to solve its ancient problems and develop a new social contract with its initiative to build a new Constitution, its resolution and peace process, and its opening policies for different parts. Because, as in many different countries, the current national paradigm and the educational system produced by this paradigm no longer meet the demands of different ethnic and religious groups in Turkey. Meanwhile, Kurds, whose assets have been denied for years, question existing political practices and demand equal citizenship. Also, the Alevis, Armenians, Serbians, Roma, women, and many ethnic, religious and collective communities that we cannot count have more problems and demand equality from day to day. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the main areas of combat where these demands are consolidated is education. For example, one of the basic demands in the Kurdish problem is focused on education in the native language. Besides, the Alevis oppose mandatory religious lessons within the framework of equal citizenship and universal freedom of faith. Despite many European Court of Human Rights rulings found Turkey imperfect, the Ministry of National Education does not organise mandatory religious lessons, but continues to practice against international law. It turns out that they were encoded in the education system, while many of our Armenians, Greek, and Suryanian citizens are struggling with continuous discrimination, they are concerned about getting their children a qualified education to pass on their own language and culture. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, in this sense, are behind our time, regardless of the functioning of the Board of Education and Discipline, which is the editor and supervisor of textbooks. The concept of training and discipline does not correspond to modern education systems. It is inevitable that all textbooks that have been taught during our country's mandatory education lives will be studied from the perspectives of the universal human rights standards, pluralism and social peace, and in this direction, the rewriting of scientific, democratic and liberal principles in the writing of textbooks, which are a mirror of common memory and knowledge in Turkey's transition and peace process. Mr. President, I would like to point out from here that the intervention of the AKP's power in education is as ideological as it was before it, and it certainly doesn't have a liberal approach. The changes and interventions of AKP power using concepts such as democracy, freedom and rights are far from the universal meaning of these concepts, the effort to legitimize and conceal conservativeisation on the basis of Neosmanism in education. The AKP does not consider ruling education as a process of partnership, sharing and liberalisation. According to him, education is not a process of dealing with social inequality and discrimination. There is no value to teachers, students, guardians, intellectuals who think, think and work in the field of education, and unions. What the ministry wants is for us to make decisions in the hegemony of non-compulsive unions, executives, bureaucrats, as they do in education services, to believe how democratic they are. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the statement of the ruling spokesman for the increased education budget and the lion's share is a statistical misdirection. Therefore, the nominal size of the Ministry of Education's budget alone has no meaning. The main indicators are the national rate of the education budget, average spending per student, interest in investments, and public education expenses. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the country that splits the least resources per student in the OECD countries. On the other hand, the denominator for investments in the educational budget, which is the most important in terms of the quality of education, appears to be a significant decline compared to 2002. The share for investments was reduced to 17% in 2002, and by 2014, it was reduced to half and nine per cent. Since the education ministry budget is far from meeting the basic needs of the education system, families are making serious spending from their own pockets to cover this gap. Dear lawmakers, because the Ministry of Education does not have enough resources for public education, socioeconomic inequality in society is reflected directly in education and serious imbalances arise between schools. The difference between 20 per cent and the poorest 20 per cent in Turkey in terms of education spending has been 14 times higher. This quality differs directly from student achievements and acts as a class separation. Schools in upper socioeconomic regions are high compared to higher education, secondary education, higher education, average success in central exams, and prestigious schools and departments in lower socioeconomic regions. The main reason for this is that public schools are provided for by parents and the state treats public schools, especially the poor neighborhood schools as stepchildren. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are creating new problems and new inequalitys and victims every year, where AKP governments develop educational policies to solve problems. The removal of tens of thousands of educational administrators over the past year and the addition of tens of thousands of students to political staffing in place of these, the victimization of millions of students in the system change in TEOG, and the public records to vocational high schools, especially imam-hatips against the wishes of thousands of students, the transfer of resources that need to be spent on public education, the transfer of information that should be spent on public education, the adoption of health-related teachers in co-existing positions, and the adoption of tens of tens of thousands of other teachers whose family integrity is being added to three years, and the adoption of thousands of them as a basis for political staffing at educational institutions, the ability of the first number of these problems may be reasonable. Dear MPs, the victimization of hundreds of thousands of Iraqi refugee students within the rights of education is another important issue. Without a doubt, children are the greatest victims of war. According to UN data, about 35 per cent of refugees who come to Turkey are children in the age of mandatory education. What are the studies conducted by the Ministry of Education for the education of these children? What is the reason for the Ministry of Education to teach refugee children in some of the public schools of the President of Religious Affairs? What is being done for education, especially for children who are out of camps and who are in the hundreds of thousands? Why is the effort to train Sunni Arab children in camps not to be shown for the education of Kurds, Suryans, Ezids, Christians outside the camps? Why are education in Arabic not provided in educational institutions in Kurdish or other languages? I want these questions answered by Mr. Secretary, shared by the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, one of the main problems of the educational system is the transfer of public resources to the private sector, the commercialisation of education and the market on the basis of the neoliberal policies, which include the context of the geneorial motion we discussed. Throughout its twelve-year mandate, the AKP has permanently transformed education with both functional and organisational-based management logic. It is the result of this logic that students are directed to private schools, that public resources are being transferred under the name of incentives to private schools, that public transports are being sequestered to capital. Mr. President, the FATHIH Project, which was brought up to students with the free tablet distribution password, was equipped with smart boards of classrooms in all schools, handing out a tablet to each student, establishing an Internet infrastructure, content and curriculum software. As part of the project, the first stage, smart boards to be used in classrooms, followed by the purchase of between 12 and 15 million tablet computers. In many majors, it was already known that students in school with teacher shorts would not be able to cover the gap with a lesson from tablet computers, which would not replace face - to - face communication between teachers and students. Valuable lawmakers have been disabled from smart boards under the FATH Project to tablets, content software to the Internet, and there have been billions of dollars' worth of grants. In the next 15 years, the monthly connection is calculated to be the lowest $10, and the FATIH Project (FATIH) opens a new 15 billion-dollar rant door only via Internet connection. The use of computerized technologies in education, still scientificly researched and unproven in the world, has quickly been put into action in Turkey, ignoring the urgent needs of schools and education. Objections that the project, which aims to boost the profits of the executive firms, is wrongly ignored by the government and the Ministry of National Education, that it should be patched into a restructuring of the educational system. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the FATHIH Project, in education and education, have appeared as one of AKP's classic, populist electoral commitments ahead of the 2011 general elections in order to ensure the equality of opportunity and improve technology in schools. As is known, the FATHIH Project is run by the Ministry of Education and is a project supported by the Ministry of Transport. The project was said to be completed in four years at the start, then extended to five years and then seven years later. As part of the FATHIH Project, students will receive tablet computers, tablet computers will certainly not be given textbooks to students who are distributed, and the FATHIH Project will receive a budget of $8 billion,500m. Dear lawmakers, some schools have been subjected to online network infrastructure operations under the FATHIH Project. And then it turns out that, as all of us have followed and reflected in the press, in the wiring of these schools, there are materials that are not compatible with the tender technical requirements, so the system is inadequate in information storage, access to the Internet. At the same time, it is known that interactive boards are malfunctioning, that they can't connect with tablet computers, that this situation has been determined by the National Ministry of Education Education Information Group Chairman, although 84,921 defective interactive boards have been purchased to prevent the project from being cancelled. This process has created the illusion that problems in education can be solved by the use of technological improvements. Precious lawmakers, the FATHIH Project (FATIH) project is now close to the end of the promised deadline, but it is now clear that only the average 7.6 per cent of the promised time can be completed, all the interactive boards are malfunctioned, the use of irregular and incomplete materials in Internet network infrastructure, the interaction of interactive boards and tablet computers, and the fact that many corruption events occur is completely naked. On this basis, our belief that the ministry budget, created by our citizens' taxes, has been irresponsibly and unregistered, is strong -- we should not forget that Turkey's education project, not the FATIH Project, but an equal, free and independent education system, which allows us to address the real problems of the education system, says that we also support the proposal with this feeling and with these ideas.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0243par0077	Thank you. Fatma Nur Serter has asked for the People's Party Group, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0244par0081	Mr. President, I've made a promise on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, first of all, on the motion to ask for a gene. I want to make one particular point after saying this: this is not a gene that was given to occupy this place, Mr. Secretary, in a conjunctural way, to take your time.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0245par0082	That's right.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0244par0083	Even if you don't know that we haven't given anything that way, and I'm telling you on behalf of myself, that I haven't based any conversation on unreal data, every minister who's ever done the National Education Ministry knows very well. Now, Mr. Secretary, perhaps in your knowledge, perhaps not, I've only given you six questions about Project FATH in your Ministry, and I've asked 55 questions in total. If these questions were answered, maybe I could get some of the things I'm going to talk about out of my speech today. The total question proposal for Project FATH (FATH) is 7/; the first one was given at Mr. Omar Dinçer's time; they immediately answered this question -- if I say right now, within a year or so -- is happening a little bit because you think it's past two years -- but you haven't answered them. So, if I was thinking with good intentions again, maybe these motions, including the names of the people and the company, were not delivered to you by your bureaucrats who were mentioned there? I'm asking the question ethically and conscientiously. I'm sorry that I can't get it translated, but I'd like you to consider those question motions in the future, even if it's the end of a year of legislation, at least in order to have the resources of the country. Unless you want these to be used in the campaign, or you don't. Now, the FATIH Project. The FATIH Project is in a dead end in one way, and in the other, it's really stuck in corruption. When was the project revealed when you looked at it from one side? 2010. By whom? By Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the period. Why is this timing chosen? It was just before the 2011 elections, it was clearly seen as a political investment, the Prime Minister took the tablets and walked all over the place. And what did you say back then? You said: "This project will be finished in five years." Did you? I didn't say it, you did. Who's running the project? Ministry of National Education. That's it? No, there's a second ministry that supports it, the Ministry of Transport. So if you look at the allegations of corruption that I'm going to share with you in the future, you're going to have to think about these two components together. One side goes to the Ministry of Transport, one side to the Ministry of National Education. 8.5 billion sources have been split, and the project has been excluded from the Public Contraction Act, despite the repeated emphasises of both us and Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party. I wish you hadn't, then I told you that when you did, this project would be tainted and haunted. So, what happened five years later? How much is the completion of the hardware, software infrastructure of all schools, the rate of fulfillment? It's 6 percent friends, 6.08 percent. What's the computer, tablet distribution rate for students and teachers? Four friends, four percent, four percent in five years. How much of the school's document camera and multifunctional printer distribution has been completed? 6.6%. How much of the interactive wood distribution has been completed? 13.7%. So the project, as it was said earlier, wasn't done at 94 percent when you looked at it. We're putting this away. We're coming to waste resources, waste of public resources. Dear friends, the project is run by the Executive Director's Office, the General Directorate of Innovation and Education Technologies. As soon as the project started, there were only four conference rooms for two trillions, so that the old money would be understood.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0246par0087	There'll be some very important meetings, won't there? FATMA NUR SERTER- Yeah, yeah. Four outside attorneys were paid 955 thousand lira in six months, with more than 20 lawyers in the National Ministry of Education. MORE than 50 dignitaries of Turkish and TÜBITAK have been paid very high wages while 142 attending teachers are present. Let's put these away. Other than that, the precious friends of the YMEKEK were renovated -- could be, could be, could be, could be, there's nothing to say -- two years later, the same office rooms were renovated because the money was 8.5 billion, let's not spend it. Now, folks, we're looking at the tenders, the tablet deals, the first contract, the tablets are bought for $723, the second one for $381, the third one for $606, so it's different. Although we have asked many times, none of these have been answered, even though we have asked many times the question, what is the technological difference between them? Interactive boards have been taken, my friends, and 84,921 boards can't be connected to the tablet computer because, frankly, the Ministry of National Education here, unfortunately, in these tenders, by keeping the Minister out of it, he's been cheated; he can't know which board to work with, of course, with which computer. But at least why are we making these questions? It's a support, it's the opposition, it's the authorities, it's the authorities that control it. It's the tip of the iceberg, the tip, the top point, but there's six of it. Dear friends, a chain of bliss has been set up in a large scale of corruption and profit. I can give you name names, I can give you company names, but I'm not just telling you the name and name of the company because I gave it to Mr. Secretary in the question proposals there; I'm just telling you that there's a company, a very well-known construction company, and this company, along with a second company that offers telecommunications, IT, advice, and construction services, is the pinnacle of the Ponzi scheme. This person -- their names are all there -- the Department of Transport, the second leg of the highway -- is soon relieved of duty with the Deputy Director -- and they're setting up other rings of this Ponzi scheme together. Look, I'm telling you the allegations with evidence, and I hope and hope they're investigated. One of these people is the director of Turkish Telekom Information Processing without a name. Mr. Secretary will know that. Turkey's Telekom is being taken General Director of Information Processing, and the MEB is appointed director general of the National Ministry of Education. This person, then, because these corruptions have been heard... what do you do about a person who's been exposed to corruption? There's gonna be an investigation, there's gonna be a trial, right? No, that's not how it works, he's being appointed to the PTT Board of Directors, and he's being transferred to the Communications General Directorate. The third person is again the head of the Group for Education Information Systems. This person has also come from TELEKOM. Because his name was involved again -- Mr. Secretary knows, he's relieved some of them -- he's not being investigated, but he's being assigned to the Justice Department. Now, there's a software company, a software company, a software firm that the Ministry of National Education bought. This firm's sales manager was taken as a consultant for the FATIH Project, and the software programme for the company, which the sales manager is connected to, was purchased for the FATIH Project at a price of over 34 million. What do you think happened after it was bought? This individual did it through this, bought it, and then immediately left counseling, and left.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0247par0096	Has he returned to the company, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0097	His comment is yours. Now, these people's corruption has actually been identified. It's been detected that during the Minister's term, they were relieved one by one. But these people have been reassigned. So this corruption has not been carried out. It's a pity that covering up a corruption in some way, concealing it, sending those people elsewhere for reasons that you have or don't have, trying to get the Ministry out of it doesn't save Mr. Secretary from that responsibility. Dear friends, things have happened. I asked him about the software program that I just told him about, and I gave him a question motion. I said, "Where was this program used?" I got an answer. The software programme, which has not been used yet, has not been used in 2014 -- has been replaced by a very serious cost in 2013. Not only that, lawmakers, but unfortunately, the company that sold this program has been paid a consulting fee, over $5.5 million in consulting fees. Now, of course, that's a bet. I have documents, but it's a bet. But how do you investigate this claim? Here, with a gene, it's done by acceptance.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0249par0100	Give it to the D.A.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0101	The rings of the Ponzi scheme are not finished here, my dear friends, please note what I'm going to say: three people in the ring of this Ponzi scheme met for a tender by the Chairman of the Privatisation Administration, who owns the Telekom Information Company, and the former General Director of the Transport Ministry for the former General Director of the Transport, which is to be held immediately after the arrangement has been established as a development and housing area. But it wasn't just these people who got together.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0250par0102	Oh, yeah? There are others?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0103	Yes, I have a document,
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0251par0104	Were you with him?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0105	I have the signed, if you like, protocol.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0251par0106	Are there any forensic investigations on this?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0107	My friend, why do you bother? Or do you know what I'm gonna say? Of course you do, and you're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0251par0108	Any forensic investigations?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0248par0109	There are 12 Justice and Development Party MPs in this. Is that why you're uncomfortable? 12 MPs, you know?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0252par0111	Well, well, well...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0253par0112	Teacher, we want to hear their names.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0254par0113	What's that, what's that?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0114	Let me read: The Protocol for the Moving of the Movement by the Privatisation Administration: I'll tell you about the location of that move: Lakebaşa, Lakebaşa district, Balıkpınar village, 143 islands, 1. A plot of land found in the parcel...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0254par0115	Maybe.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0116	I'm not talking to you, bro, why don't you keep talking to me... you go talk to someone else. ...friends, and soon after it's determined, these people get together, they say, "Let's take this one, and we'll pick the president of this one, as well as all of us. And then, as an equal shareholder, we'll enter this tender. Do you know what this is now?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0256par0118	Who are these MPs, Hodja? Let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0119	What's the crime in that?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0120	This suggests that the continuation of those who function as the ring of the Ponzi scheme at the National Ministry of Education has been found among lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0121	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0122	This is how the rings of that chain came, whether they're here or not, surrounded by some of the MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0258par0123	You're reading intent again.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0124	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0125	It's obvious, whatever the outcome, it's obvious. I mean, you guys, nobody... I have who he is, I have a name, look, I don't read, I don't read.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0258par0127	No one reads them, don't suspect anyone.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0128	Who are they?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0129	No, I'm not. Let the curious one come.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0130	Where's the corruption in that?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0131	It's not something I wrote. Shall I read it, friends? Do you want it?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0133	Why don't you tell me where the corruption is? How is that a crime? How is that a crime?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0134	I'm reading, then, reading: Feramuz Üstün, Cahit Bağcı, Vedat Demiröz, Ahmet Euksizkaya, Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Mustafa Baloglu, Muzaffer Baştopçu, Zayya Sadi Bilç, Ahmet Arslan, Hüseyin Şahin, Mustafa Özturk, Lütfi Elvan.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0136	How is that a crime?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0137	I wasn't reading, you insisted. They signed a protocol and authorized Feramuz Üstün.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0138	You know, your congressman, he's in the mine contract, so why don't you tell him that? He's the one who entered the mine contract...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0139	Look who, look who they did it with. That's the point. Who did these people cooperate with? Who did he sign a protocol with? Here he signed a protocol in the Ponzi scheme, along with the names that defrauded the Ministry of National Education and corrupted the tenders.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0257par0140	I don't know. Look what he's saying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0141	So, friends, it doesn't matter whether you get a bid or not. I underline who you co-signed this protocol with.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0259par0142	We don't know that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0143	When you entered this tender...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0259par0144	What tender? What contract?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0145	Whether you're in or out, who you're protocold with...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0260par0146	Either you went in or you didn't. What the hell does that mean? Is that a bet?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0147	First, understand what I'm underlining. I can't just...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0260par0148	We'll understand, and you won't.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0149	There's nothing wrong with screaming, understand!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0260par0150	You couldn't tell me! I don't understand, you didn't tell me!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0151	With the rings of the Ponzi scheme at the Ministry of National Education, if you'd like to do a collaborative protocol...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0261par0152	What chain? Explain it to me.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0153	... legitimize their corruption there, give them power.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0262par0154	What if you've got a document to report to the D.A.'s office? Why don't you file a complaint?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0155	So here's a gene to investigate all of this, this is the genome of...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0262par0156	You're slandering me, slandering me! Blasphemy head!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0263par0157	Why don't you explain?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0158	If you have a heart, if you agree to investigate them, you must also vote positive for this gene. It's clear, it's clear, it's clear, it's clear with all its documents. I've got papers on this case, including all the maintenance contracts.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0264par0161	Why don't you explain the protocol?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0265par0162	Go to the D.A.'s office!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0163	Look, I want you to...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0265par0164	Why don't you complain to the D.A.?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0165	Why should I answer you?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0265par0166	It's a beef complaint!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0167	You're not my handler.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0265par0168	You're not, and neither are you!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0255par0169	That's the thing, fellas, whether you accept it or not.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0265par0171	You're in the middle of nowhere! You're gonna pay good compensation now!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0266par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0173	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0266par0174	The names Mr. Hatib read are all members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. The members of the Plan and Budget Commission are not authorized to sign such a protocol according to the Civil Code. In the face of such a situation, all of whom are members of the Plan and Budget Commission should make a statement as to those whose names have been read or in the protocol, because it is not the Commission.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0175	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0266par0176	We're looking for an explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0268par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0178	Yes, Murat Yıldırım on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0268par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0181	Just a moment, Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0268par0183	Mr. President, the secretary spoke of a protocol by mentioning my name, and I'm not aware of that. I want to answer, I want to promise.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0184	Here you go, whatever you want to say, Mr. Irony. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0269par0186	Did he set up a parallel? The parallel must have prepared it!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0267par0187	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0270par0191	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the spokesman or speaker of the Republican People's Party, have just mentioned a protocol. It was a protocol for the names of all the friends in the Plan and Budget Commission. I personally don't know from a distance, as I've seen unsigned, as long as it's in the preparation of this protocol. If it's true, you sue him, and we'll sue you for it. I mean, it's all made up. Based on what? It's about privatisation. I'm a man who didn't come through the privatisation door. I mean, our friends know that, and our friends in the Plan and Budget know that, and you know that. I mean, I don't appreciate you coming in here and talking to me in front of everyone. So I'm going to file the case, and please let us see an example of that protocol, and we'll do what we need to do. I'm informing all public opinion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0271par0195	One copy each...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0272par0196	Yes, thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group Murat Yıldırım, Çorum MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0273par0203	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the gene question the CHP Group has given about our National Education Minister Nabi Avcı. I salute the great nation. Our young people are our tomorrows, the futures of this country; the service to them, the steps to take for them are investments in the future of this country. The intelligent class applications carried out under the FATIH Project, the tablets distributed to our young, the value added to our country for their infrastructure, are a milestone, a turning point for this country. Our Ministers of Transport and National Education are working together on this project, with excellent coordination among the ministries. We congratulate them. In Turkey, the infrastructure of education is changing very radically. Progress in science and industry is reflected in our country, and our children...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0274par0207	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the lawmakers...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0273par0208	...to take advantage of them. Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0274par0210	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0275par0211	Brother, I'm going to sue. There's no need for such a thing... not even a signature, it's immoral.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit05spe0274par0212	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0274par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/54) We will continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction will be on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0276par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing a motion by Republican People's Party lawmakers regarding Minister of National Education, Mr. Nabi Avcı. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Fatma Nur Serter, spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. In his speech, Mr. Nur Serter stated that he had given the National Education Minister a number of questions about the FATHIH Project (Presents) at the Ministry of National Education, which so far we could call countless questions, that he had expressed allegations of corruption in his questions, but that these questions were not answered by the Minister of National Education, although more than two years had passed, and they also handed over a sample of the questions he had made to Mr. Secretary of State. It's about the FATHIH Project, it's about corruption there. Mr. Nur Serter expressed some serious allegations that bureaucrats were involved in some corruption. Under these allegations, Mr. Nur Serter shared with the General Assembly a document that had reached him. In this document, Mr. Nur Serter stated that bureaucrats who were alleged to have been corrupt in the FATIH tender also met with some lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party Group, and were planning to buy from the Privatisation Administration of a land dedicated to the Ministry of Transport under this protocol. I also took Mr. Nur Serter's speech out of the transcripts. These alleged corrupt bureaucrats express that they have expanded their rings by finding new people, new alliances. Mr. Serter has not made any claims as to whether or not this tender has been made, but he has stated that there is a protocol for these individuals. This protocol, of course, could be right, could be wrong. However, after reading the protocol by Mr. Nur Serter, after insisting by lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party Group to read it, some of those names -- who are probably not here -- reacted violently, saying that this protocol is false. A friend of ours, Mr. Demiröz, stood on the stand, gave a speech: I had nothing to do with it, I saw it for the first time. By the time I saw Mr. Tarayya Sadi Scholar, I saw his sincere response here. We were happy with the MPs' reaction. We're not happy that the protocol is correct, we're happy that it isn't. We are happy that there are MPs who are sincere, sincere, and reject it. That's the point. Lawmakers can make claims on the stand, of course these allegations can be spoken, discussed, denied -- no -- can be supported; after all, this is an interview expressed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's what it's all about. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0277par0013	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0278par0015	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Serter is a friend of ours who served with the National Education Commission. There are times when we agree with his ideas, disagree with him, but as a civilized person, he comes and explains his views. However, there has been some misfortune in today's session, the perpetrator of this is Mr. Serter, who, unfortunately, has made some allegations of corruption, mentioned the names of some of the bureaucrats involved. As we've seen and heard from the following reports, this suggests that the continuation of those who function as the ring of the Ponzi scheme in the Ministry of National Education, the Justice and Development Party MPs, have new rings among them. This is how the rings of that chain came, whether they're here or not, surrounded by some of the MPs. That's very clear... I mean, he's talking about a Ponzi scheme ring, Mr. Serter; he's talking about it surrounding some of the MPs, and he says it's very clear and certain. On what? According to the document you have. But there's no signature, no seal, no unknown document. Basically, it takes a lot of responsibility to go out with a document like this and make such serious claims. Mr. Serter has not fulfilled that responsibility. Everyone's looking at each other in this coven. He could reach out to any of our friends here and ask himself if this document was true, and he could apply for their testimony. Because this claim is directly based on the dignity of these people, a claim that accuses them, accusatory them. However, our representatives have made it very clear that they were not part of such a ring in any way, that they had no knowledge of such a protocol, that such a situation was not real, that they were not, in some way, right after the conversation was made. So, this is a real scandal. Basically, if there's going to be a claim on the MPs in our House, everyone here can get to and investigate each other very easily. It's probably our duty to follow such a fundamental rule, such a civilized rule. Mr. Serter, of course, has made a firm attack here, saying, "It is very clear to the honor of the MPs and so on." I'm inviting him to apologize.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0279par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0280par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0281par0021	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0282par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0283par0023	Just a second, I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0284par0026	Mr. President, of course, in connection with such a claim, you should take these statements seriously. Thus, it is not right to really put right a right or a wrong in this matter, but it is necessary to take these statements. I'm dealing with these bureaucrats who have been referred to as the minister... of course, they may have been facing a fraud incident... and they may have created an air that looks like they're taking lawmakers or someone behind them, or it might have been a hoax. However, Mr. Secretary... was there a tender for this on January 21, 2014, or not? Is there a tender for these bureaucrats in question? What's been done about this place? Once concrete information is revealed about these, it will be revealed that lawmakers are not already involved. In this case, is there such a deal or not? Do these bureaucrats have a tender? How much is it paid, if you have it? Otherwise, he'll show up anyway. In this regard, when you share information about this person with our House, without privatisation, with the Prime Minister's office, it's going to happen anyway. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0283par0028	Thank you. Your Honor, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0285par0030	Mr. President, I want to speak to you about the statement Mr. Nur Serter made earlier. I just got the transcripts, and I need to make a statement here.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0283par0031	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0285par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've been here eight years. Maybe we've got a lot of friends who've been here longer than we have, maybe less. But, first and foremost, it is our duty to protect the honor and dignity of all the MPs here, as well as the honor and dignity of the High Assembly here. It's so easy to stand up here and tell all kinds of slanders and lies. We may get hundreds of similar documents every day, but it's up to a responsible person to find out if it's true or true. Look, what Mr. Nur Serter says: I have protocol signed -- let me give it to you -- Mr. Serter, if you have a signed protocol here right now, it's up to you to bring it in and present it, but there's no signature in the protocol you call it. Once it starts here, it's a lie. Secondly, Mr. President, in five minutes of recess, Mr. Kaplan entered the website of the Privatisation Administration here from the Internet, and, yes, he reached out to something like this, and that's when the tender appeared. Four firms broke in. I don't know any of this, but I don't know if you have anything on a responsible person, who's got the contract, what's what, what's behind it, whether or not there's a bureaucrat or not, and then you come back here and accuse everyone of setting up a Ponzi scheme. But what I'm saying is that what you're doing is extremely shameful, that you should be offended, and that my legal rights are reserved. All of our friends, all of us, not just those who have signed this protocol, or those you claim to have signed, but all of our fellow lawmakers, who you accuse of setting up a Ponzi scheme, will take the necessary legal path. It is your duty, at the very least, to come and apologize to the people on this stand.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0286par0042	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0287par0043	Mr. President, I want to speak of bullying, my name is mentioned.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0286par0044	Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0287par0047	Mr. President, I've been here for four years, and if I've been there, I've always gone to separate people, not to fight, but unfortunately today my friends have driven me mad enough to drop my voice. If you have any self-respect, if you have any respect for others, if you're using a phrase like this, then you're responsible for proving it, if you're not, you're a mufter, and you're below it. I have a signed document in my hand. You say. Anyone can write a blank paper like that on a computer, anyone can bring it. I'm not familiar with such a document. I don't know that I'm involved in something like this, and neither do my friends. You write a document with my name on it, and it's not enough, you say: I have a document signed. If you don't bring it out, you're a nameless person, you're a nameless person! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I will do all I can, and I will seek my rights, and only my rights will remain. I will not seek my rights, but my rights, my friend. It's not that easy. I'm 55 years old, I've been working for 45 years, I've been working since I was 10. The biggest projects in this country have my signature on their biggest tenders. I've never been accused of anything like this. I did Marmaray, I was not accused of the land; I made the third bridge's way, the project, the tender; I was not accused; I was in every process of the Istanbul-Izmir tender; I was not accused; I was in every stage of the Eurasia Tunnel; I was not accused. I was the first to know where the third airport was, but for the first time here, I was the first to say that my wife didn't know it, my child didn't know it, my relative didn't know it. Why? Just so there's no doubt about it. Shame on you! You brought me here and put me in a fake document, a fake document, and you said, "There's a signature on this document." You have to prove it. Cheers, glory, that's what humanity looks like.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0288par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0289par0055	Yes, Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0288par0057	Mr. President, the speaker who was just speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group has declared that we have set up a Ponzi scheme with some friends of ours to mention my name, and that his statement is based on a number of statements. Guys, this isn't a head shot. There's a nice word amongst the public: handheld paper. It's called the Helvacı paper. You're all set up and out of the handheld paper, claiming that we're getting some assets here, that we're in the tender. You mention my name here, too. There's no real lining to something like this. It's a lie, it's a lie, and it's a black spot that's being thrown at us. We don't accept it, and those who claim it, if they insist on their claims, they have to prove that they don't want to be a mufti.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0290par0059	He told the whole group, the whole group, not just you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0288par0060	Whatever was done that day, whatever was offered, none of us knew. They took the names of the friends from the Plans and Budget Commission, and they arranged the candy paper with cut-off-copy logic. I know what I have to do with something like this, and my friends have nothing to do with it. Because we've come here on our own, and we're going to go with the best of us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0291par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0291par0065	Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0066	I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0291par0067	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0070	Mr. President, I really don't think that a professor, a woman, would be so reckless, so...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0293par0071	That's what you do to the headscarf girls, huh?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0072	Right now, I think there's nothing he can't do, considering what he's done to these kids. I think there's nothing he can't do. As a lady, you need to think about it a little. It's a piece of crap paper that won't fit a single ounce of protocol. As a lady, they'll write something in your name, and they'll write words that will play with your dignity. They make lists to play with your dignity, your honor, and they put you on that list, you can't clean yourself up. None of my friends, none of our friends, who don't know anything about what they're talking about, don't know anything about it. Mr. Vural says: "I don't care if the contract was made or not at that time." It could have been done some other time, it could have been done a day later, it could have been done before that, it's none of our business.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0294par0073	The public defender's statement is fundamental.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0074	Even if an MP's statement isn't fundamental, I'm just saying, Mr. Ahmet, our friends have just said that I really think that a professor did this, and how much I think there's someone in the authorities, how many jobs, how many people have played with the children's past.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0295par0075	We understand, but don't offend the professors here, Mr. Feramuz, someone who doesn't know himself. There are many professors.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0292par0076	Someone who doesn't really know who he is... and in his speech, he says that he has your signature, that there's your signature on the papers. It's not the slightest piece of paper, it's a cheap piece of paper. Our friends' names are written on a cheap piece of paper that's been removed from the computer. I can't find anything to say. Like all our friends, we'll be behind everything that needs to be done legally, we'll be his followers. I don't even see the need for protest, violence, and reproach, and I refer it to God.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0296par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0297par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0296par0081	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0297par0083	Mr. President, thank you. I salute the General Assembly. I wasn't there a minute ago, I looked at the report, my name's on it, and I'm amazed. I mean, slandering people with a piece of paper like that, and framing them, that's probably bad enough for you. Here's what I know about this piece of paper called protochole. I don't know where it is. I'm not part of the Plan and Budget Commission. So, I guess someone...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0298par0087	What do you mean? You'd know if you were on the Plan and Budget Commission?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0297par0088	We don't know anything. So it is a lie, and it is a calumny. I think Nur Serter is taking revenge on some of the past. We saw how you pressured the girls in the persuasion rooms, how you upset the psychology of those kids, but I saw this tonight: that those kids were in a bad mood, trying to demoralize their psychology. So, shame on you. So you came up with such a slander, such a lie. All this is a lie, and it is a calumny. I don't remember being with my friends like this, and I've never seen or heard of it. I salute the General Assembly. I'm returning them all to you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0299par0092	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0300par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0301par0094	He didn't just tell you, he told the group. He pointed with his hand and pointed at the group.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0299par0095	Mr. Coacher, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0300par0097	Mr. President, this is embarrassing. In fact, there was an attack on my person, my friends, my members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and even the EC PARTY group, which we had no knowledge of. The allegations and documents against me are false, which are not true, including the issue of the fabrication document in question. I've never signed a protocol like this, I don't know about it, I haven't heard of it, and this is the first time I've seen it here. I condemn Nur Serter for reading such a false document in the General Assembly. The document is a fake, it's a falsified document. Even if a congressman brought such a document to this stand...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0302par0099	The piece of paper...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0300par0100	Even bringing a piece of paper here is reckless, disrespectful, and immoral. I condemn him for this conversation, and I invite him to prove these allegations. And if he doesn't, he's a bastard and a bastard.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0303par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0304par0103	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0305par0104	Sit down...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0306par0105	Sit down...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0307par0106	Wait a second...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0107	There's no language like that, sir. There's no style like that. No one can accuse anyone of being dishonest, of being an asshole.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0309par0108	He's still talking.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0310par0109	Sit down, sit down...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0110	Shut up, you dirty man. Don't you know anything but talk?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0311par0111	Here you go, Mr. Baloglu.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0312par0113	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just made some accusations, using our name as a preacher, pointing to a false document, a rag, here, and I strongly reject these accusations.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0114	You have no right to teach honor and decency, you'll fail.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0313par0115	You stay.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0312par0116	I strongly reject these accusations.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0117	The Deputy Prime Minister accused your Metropolitan Mayor of corruption. Didn't Brült Arinc accuse Mr. Melih Gökçek, with corruption? Didn't he tell you that you sold a parcel of Ankara?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0314par0119	Mr. Hamzacebi, please sit down, sir, please sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0120	Indecency is silence.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0315par0121	Mind your own business.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0314par0122	Mr. Baloglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0123	That's dishonest.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0314par0124	Please, Congressmans, have a seat.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0308par0125	That's nasty. (AK PARTY and CHP rows)
tbmm-2015-03-24sit06spe0314par0126	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0314par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/54) We continue talks on whether or not the primary Gensorial Introduction will be on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Mr. Baloglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0316par0009	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just pointed to a messenger rag and mentioned a so-called document with my name on it. This document states that it is a lie, it is a fabrication, and I strongly deny it, and I strongly recommend to this speaker, and to this dear lady, that this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has a weight on this platform; that what is to be said on this platform must be based on some basis, that the facts, the accuracy of the documents to be shown, and what they are. It's not appropriate for a female MP, especially an academic, to come in here and point out a document, a so-called document, and accuse a lot of innocent people. I think it's up to you to first ask those who handed this document to you, ask them what this document is really about, and then please come to this stand and apologize to all the MPs whose names you count here...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0317par0011	From the group, from the group!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0316par0012	...and apologize to our group. I mean, I'm so sorry, I can't tell you. I don't know, I don't know. Look, here's a so-called document with no official qualifications, and we'll go in a little while and we'll put your name here, or we'll put a different kind of document in front of you, or we'll write in front of you, the CHP Group or the MP group in the MP Group, or the HDP Group. I'd like to ask this lady MP, this woman's MP, this precious congressman.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0318par0016	It's not worth anything. What value?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0316par0017	Whoever handed this document over to him, let him go first and ask his account, and then apologize to the lawmakers he accused. I guess he's the one who looks good on him. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0319par0020	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bonder.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0320par0024	Mr. President, dear friends, I will not answer the transcripts here. I will no doubt seek my rights to these allegations in legal terms. However, my friends have expressed themselves. Whatever this protocol or protocol is -- as my friend puts it, Mustafa Baloglu -- I want to make it clear that this document, whatever it is, has nothing to do with it, that I have nothing to do with it, that I have no knowledge, that I have no signature under it. On friends who are members of the Plan and Budget Commission, unfortunately, it's a game that someone is playing, and it's a scam, and our group is being tried to frame, and the EC PARTI is associated with corruption. My advice to my friends is that in order for you to be able to break down the spirit of the AK PARTY, you need to have a political, rhetorical relationship with the public. That's my advice. And you're gonna be a teacher. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0321par0028	Mr. Serker, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say that I didn't accuse any of the lawmakers of taking part in a tender.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0323par0033	It's signed. You said, signed.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0324par0034	You're talking about the chain, the chain.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0035	Number two: This protocol... really came out of my written mouth. If I'd said that on purpose, I probably wouldn't have given it to you. There was so much yelling in the front, it came out of my mouth. Three: I'm really sorry to upset you here, but I also want to point out carefully that I am a man of courage who has spoken the truth that I have always believed. What I mean here is that it's very clear, I said that the bureaucrats there are trying to legitimize and justify themselves by taking a job with some Justice and Development Party MPs.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0325par0037	Mr. President, what's he talking about instead of apologizing?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0038	That's what I said about the Ponzi scheme, which means they're raising themselves, moving themselves out. That's what I really wanted to say.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0326par0039	His apology is bigger than his fault.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0040	Other than that, I have absolutely no intention. I really don't think you...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0327par0042	Congressmans, please... he's making a statement, Mr. Serter.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0043	Look, there's been a contract. I didn't say that, guys.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0327par0044	He apologized. What more do you want?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0328par0045	He didn't get it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0322par0046	I said a protocol, and that's exactly what I'm trying to do. From now on, of course, you're free to tell me what you want. Of course, my rights are reserved for the insults you've made, but that's my goal. I repeat, I'm deeply sorry for the reaction I've seen here and for the sadness I've caused you. I'm really sorry that I made you understand that you didn't do business with that team. That's what I'm going to say, but that doesn't justify you getting up here and insulting me and saying things about my morality and my integrity. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0329par0049	Yes, thank you, Mr. Serker, thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Nur Serter has just made a statement. I made a statement in the beginning as Deputy Director of the Group, and I was happy that the MPs mentioned in that protocol would stand up and deny this incident, saying it was unreal. We don't think that protocol...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0331par0054	Did you have doubts? What a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0055	Is it working, Mr. Row? I'm making a statement.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0331par0056	It's happening, yeah, it's happening. I was happy... I mean, there was something like that...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0332par0057	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0058	I have nothing to say to you, I'll continue to explain.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0331par0059	It can't be.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0060	Of course, Mr. Nur Serter will appreciate the use of his legal rights regarding those insulting words against Mr. Nur Serter. It's a matter of his own discretion, but I'm returning those words of insult to the friends who said those words. I'll remind you, however, that a while ago, Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, was sitting here, making an accusation against Republican People's Party MPs, an ugly accusation. How were you disturbed today when Mr. Nur Serter spoke, and the names passed? Taner Yıldız was sitting there -- he had a geneor about him again, I remember -- he said that some Republican People's Party MPs or opposition lawmakers were pursuing business because of some of their companies. In a manner of speaking, he said that these MPs were corrupt... we reacted, but a group of your vice presidents didn't come forward and make the statement I just made.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0333par0062	He was documented.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0063	You know, when you say, "I'd expect an explanation from you, the vice president of the group, that day in the face of Taner Yildiz's explanation."
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0334par0064	Mr. Secretary has made the necessary statement.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0330par0065	I expected a similar statement from you that day after the talk of Taner Star. I'm afraid you avoided doing that. My condolences to you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0335par0067	The thief of Yavuz suppresses the owner of the house. They call it our place.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0336par0068	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you. Now, Murat Yıldırım has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Çorum MP.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0337par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the genotype given by the Republican People's Party Group on our National Education Minister Nabi Avcı. I salute the High Council. Our young are our tomorrows, the futures of this country. The service to them is an investment in the future of this country. The intelligent class applications carried out under the FATIH Project, the tablets distributed to our young, the value added to our country for their infrastructure, are a milestone, a turning point for this country. Our Ministry of Transport and National Education is working together on this project. There is excellent coordination among the ministries, and we congratulate them. Education infrastructure in Turkey is changing very radically. Progress in science and industry is reflected in our country. Our children are allowed to take advantage of them. The FATIH Project is not only an education and equipment project, it is also important to increase domestic production and added value, to ensure production of products that have never been produced in our country, to make RD activities, to create self-improvement and opportunity for local companies, to expose the spirit of entrepreneurship. This project is not the project of the former Turkey, but of the new Turkey. The FATIH Project (FATIH) and the introduction of IT technologies in this country, using public procurement power, are one of the most important objectives of technology transfers. Mentally, it's not possible for anyone left in ancient Turkey to see this. Therefore, the opposition is interested in secondary issues, leaving what is real. In politics, racing is a project, it's a service, it's a vision. Those without vision, without projects, without services only produce gossip and slander. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's remind you of 12 years ago. There weren't enough schools in old Turkey, no classrooms, no teachers. There were projects to make the contractor rich that didn't have a nail in him for decades. There was a generation in ancient Turkey who couldn't get a pen, couldn't get an eraser, couldn't find a notebook, waited weeks for school books to come to the bookstore in their city.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0338par0078	You've grown...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0337par0079	Yeah, I've been there. My constituency, Chorum, had a famous street, Vezi Street. At the opening of every school, hundreds of kids would open up stands to sell their old books on the sidewalks of that street. Our people over 15 know those days very well, you know, and so do I. Today, on the first day of the opening of schools, textbooks are placed in the order of all our children, and our nation does not pay a penny for these books, that is serving the nation. Over a million computers have been distributed to our schools. As part of the FATHIH Project, a manageable and measurable network infrastructure is established to include all schools. Our schools and students are provided safe internet service. Each environment provides a conscious and secure use of IT technology. The project includes smart boards, printers, documents and cameras in our classrooms. Every teacher and student has a tablet computer distribution. The world's most powerful IT companies are competing for this project. The world's IT industry has seen the importance of the project, its size, where it can move Turkey in the 21st century, but our opposition continues to cast mud at what it sees and sees. Dear lawmakers, the FATIH Project is developing a digital generation. Thanks to the services of the EC PARTY, that generation thrives in the best environments and meets with the best equipment. Like Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, an era opens and closes with the FATIH Project, but you can't understand it. Only in my constituency have 96 educational institutions, 1,064 classrooms, 18 boarding houses, 11 school gyms been served in the service of education in the last 12 years. It's impossible to compare these numbers to the past. In this year alone, 282 new classrooms, four boarding houses capable of 800 students, two gyms have been completed. Before 2002 there were 55 technology classes, and today there are 255 information technology classes in Çorum. As part of the FATIH Project, 802 classes are equipped. The number of free books distributed to our students in the last eight years is 1 million 375,786. Respected lawmakers, it is impossible for those who have spent years pursuing the resources of this country's party staff and its extensions to understand services such as the FATIH Project, who have scratched the nation's belly and made it useless. It is for those who know, who wield the sword. We have an proverb: "The work of iron will shine, and the rust will not hold. " Whatever you do against the great service we have done to our nation, whatever mud you try to throw at it, rise up, it will not hold, or hold. You've seen it in 17 December and 25 December plots, you've seen it fail, you've seen it not in Gezi Vandalism, you've seen it not in 6 October and 7 October Kobani events, you've seen it not in the last dozen elections, you've seen it not, you've seen it in the presidential election, it's answered 52 percent. For years, this government has led this country's resources to terrorism and weapons into investment. In the past, the largest share of the budget has been defended, while for the first time, it has been trained by the AK PARTI power and continues to receive. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the FATHIH Project isn't just a tablet project, it's a project that concerns the future of this country. If there have been delays in the project, it is because there are no conditions for the country's interest. The project is multidimensional. The process is redesigned in the interest of this country. The important thing is that the project is carried out properly. As the opposition puts it, allegations such as corruption, the launch of the project are completely unrealistic. In May, 700,000 students will receive pencil tablets. These tablets are designed by 100 percent Turkish engineers. The technical capacity is high, and the cost is low. Soon all tablet computers will be produced in Turkey. The proper facilities for this are also under way. With this facility, we will be producing Middle East, Balkans, and Central Asia. Four years from now, the children of this country will be using completely domestic production tablets. With this project, Turkey has become the country that triggers the interactive wooden sector in the world. Our firms will produce and sell interactive wood to the world in our country. Soon that success will be on the tablet computer. It is surprising that the opposition did not see so much reality, or that they were able to give it to another purpose, even though they saw it. No one will be able to prevent the FATIH Project, or any other projects that are being carried out in the interest of this country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The services of the EC PARTY government are a nightmare in the dreams of the opposition. When they wake up in the morning, they're using slander as a way of giving the gene, as you can see a moment ago. The sun is not covered with clay, no matter what they do. Our nation is looking at its service. People's pupil schools, which the opposition has closed, have opened this power and AK PARTY. February 28th and the problem of vocational high school, which is the product of today's opposition, has been eliminated by this power. A revolutionary service was performed in the educational system with 4+4+4. In education, the equality of opportunity was achieved with this power, with which the coefficient was reset. Even the matter of the classroom alone is a service that will affect the fate of this country. Dear lawmakers, the FATIH Project received an award in 2014 in Italy. It's a project followed by the world's attention at the point where new information information technology adapts to education. European countries envy this project. Yes, while the opposition tries to block the services of the EC PARTI government and weaken the nation, education, culture, economic development and political strengthening continue on the road to Turkey. The great Turkey will not be able to prevent you or the parallel structure you co-operated with, nor the external forces behind them. This nation will grow, rise, and mark the 21st century. It's an inevitable fact. Those who want to prevent it will remain under the great Turkey. The opposition must learn to reconcile with the values of the nation and serve the country on its axis. Turkey's opposition -- hope for street Vandalism -- wants to start a fight in parliament, make parliament unworkable with geneors. They didn't even give up the weight of the day-to-day questions. This nation will grow and rise. There's a lot to say, but my friends want me to finish it. And I'll tell you what, I'm looking at the name under your gene, the inventor of the room of persuasion, a former lecturer who put all kinds of pressure on our headscarfed girls. That doesn't surprise us at all, his mentality is the same 20 years ago today as it was today, with a slanderous mentality, with a hint of a horse. It's understood how empty the inside of this gene is, and there's no need to say too much. The FATHIH Project, which is the future of our country and youth, has laid the foundations of our country and of our national education and transport project, has raised the concept of black wood on the dusty shelves of history, has defeated the history of the nation's makus, our founding President and President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister and President, Mr. Professor Dr. Ahmet Davoglu, and I salute our ministers of National Education and Transport.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0339par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0340par0098	Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, I believe you've asked for a word from the teaser. Two minutes, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0341par0103	Now, the speaker has said a lot of things, of course, but Mr. Nur Serter, who is not here, has made a number of taunts about him. I'd like to ask that speaker a question now. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc accused Ankara Metropolitan Mayor of sitting on the lap of the parallel structure. You know what you said, co-operated with the parallel, with the parallel, what do you call it now? Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, who said the parallel structure was sitting on his lap, said Ankara had committed corruption by selling a parcel of Ankara.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0342par0104	Is this the bullying, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0341par0105	Come on out and say something. Mr. Bulent Arinc accuses your Metropolitan Mayor of corruption, Ankara accuses him of selling parcels, and I will be silent until the end of eight, he says. So I've got information, documents, but the AKP says I won't talk until I'm eight. You know, he's just used some concepts here, some friends, and I'm praising things, and the argument that comes out here to defend themselves is wrong, it's a lie, I'm not on any side of it. I'm not giving the guys an answer, they used their natural rights. But beyond that, I ask those who teased our group and Nur Serker, using concepts such as dirty, dishonest, vileness, and so on, using such concepts as the rooms of the world.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0343par0106	You don't think that's right either, do you? That's how it sounds. I don't think you're finding the convincing rooms right. Now that you've seen the bullying...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0341par0107	Mr. Bulent Arinc's mayor of Ankara Metropolitan is sitting in the parallel structure, selling Ankara's parcels. Aren't you going to say anything about his claim? Are you going to sit on this corruption? The Justice and Development Party Group is a righteous group to sit on corruption. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You put this to a vote on four ministers, and you're going to show it here. Good luck with your corruption attitude.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0344par0111	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0345par0113	You are a righteous group, sitting on corruption.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0344par0114	Here you go, Mr. Botanci. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0346par0116	No, I think you held her, you didn't sit down, you held her.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0347par0117	Don't be rude! Where do you sit?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0346par0118	You're rude!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0347par0119	You dirty bastard! Shame on you! Look at the statements you're using.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0346par0120	You're the dirty one, I'm returning it to you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0347par0121	It suits you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0348par0123	Mr. President, dear friends, I think it's a very fundamental and wrong way of thinking that, in a way, we're here, yes, we're wrong to say that, but look, that's what you said here. An idea in the form of an argument is wrong, because in addition to that, I can say something else right away. For example, there was a presidential race in CHP, and Mr. Tünce, who has been acting as Group Chairman for many years, had criticised Mr. Kılıçdaroglu for being more dictator than Mr. Kılıçdaroglu. Now, look, here's the thing: If we said that, he said that. That's what this was about, but you said, "Well, there's a lot of things that we can say to each other if we put aside what we really need to deal with, and we get into other things. That's one. Secondly, Mr. Melih said a word to Gökçek, Mr. Ariç. It's Melih Gökçek, it's Ariç. Who's Ariç? Ariç is Deputy Prime Minister in the government. So he's making an assessment. Excuse me, you said to the AK PARTY in the morning and evening: "You're authoritarian, you're totalitarian, you want to bring a uniform structure to society." [ Applause ] Yeah, you're gonna say "democracy" day and night, and you're gonna have to fill it up a little bit. What you call democracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the internal debates of a party. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0349par0129	So with Mr. Arinc's speech, democracy came to AKP, it seems.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0350par0130	Yes, thank you. Now, National Education Minister Nabi Avcı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0351par0137	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're talking about the FATIH Project. In short, what we call FATHIH, the movement to increase opportunities in education and improve technology, is a national transformation movement that every citizen of this country will be proud of. This project, launched under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan during his prime minister's term in 2010, was intended to meet the possibilities of our schools' educational technology, to be equipped with interactive boards and strong Internet infrastructure. In addition to the wealth and resources of infrastructure that will be created in our classrooms, the FATIH Project also allows digital education to be prepared and presented to the benefit of our teachers and students. As of today, the FATHIH Project is the world's most important educational project, both infrastructure installations and content. It's an educational move that affects everyone known, modeled, studied, and studied around the world, given the rate of quantitative occurrence. While many countries have yet to discuss the attributes of technological infrastructure to classrooms, Turkey today has established a high-tech interactive board for nearly 200,000 classrooms. As of today, thousands of classrooms have been restored to a powerful Internet infrastructure that provides access through fiber optic cables. While many countries are in the process of discussing the nature of computers to be installed in classrooms, we deliver tablet computers to our teachers and students. The Education Information Network EBA, created as an important component of the FATHIH Project, is the largest e-integrated portal in the world in terms of its digital education content. We offer the digital education content, which exceeds 100,000, to the benefit of our students and teachers through the Education Information Network. This is what you can see when you enter the Internet. In the last year alone, we have increased the number of digital educational content by 74 percent. But that's not the end of our future in context. By the end of 2015, when we're done with our work, we'll be able to move the EBA to a much more advanced level of capacity and quality. And when we look at the user statistics on this portal, we see that our educational community, especially our teachers, has increased every day. In March 2014, the number of users in the EBA was 296,013. As of March 2015, the number of users is 1,905,320. So in the last year, the number of users in the EBA has increased by 544 percent. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the purpose of all these procedures is to help our students learn, to help them access information quickly and easily. As of today, we have 172.417 interactive boards that we have installed in classrooms. This number corresponds to the sum of the classroom numbers of many countries in Europe. You can appreciate that in a project like this, the world's leading and largest, there are sometimes delays, because of the difficulty of the tender processes. The nature of the project is a simultaneous progress with the private sector. The infrastructure can't be built without interacting boards. However, when infrastructure and interactive boards are completed, high-speed broadband Internet service can be provided, and only when the entire cycle is complete can the tablet be obtained. Following the infrastructure tenders, problems may arise due to seasonal conditions, supply process, and the continuation of education in schools -- from time to time -- as well as the company's bankruptcy. This has been clearly highlighted in our executive action report in 2014, but there have been some news and talks from this report. The project has been evaluated only through the headlines in the report, ignoring developments in the underfrastructure of the project. With the wrong average accounts taken as apple and pear balls, they wanted to create a negative perception, they wanted to create a negative perception. This is a political move to break the positive perception of the project in public ahead of the election, when the project is at its fastest and most active. With tenders and initial applications, 2015 is the golden year of the project. So far, we've made the most important development in components, especially in the last six months. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the FATHIH Project is not only a hardware project, but as I just pointed out, the FATIH Project is also a very comprehensive content project. However, I'd like to give you a brief attention to the numbers on the hardware. In 2012, 84,921 interactive boards were installed in classrooms. In 2013, our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications made a tender for 347,367 boards covering all classrooms and signed the contract in January 2014. With this contract, the installation of 347,367 interactive boards will be completed by the end of 2015. As of today, the installation of 172.417 interactive boards has been completed. By the end of 2015, we're going to be installing the interactive board into 432,288 classes. At the moment, about 1,500 interactive boards are installed on all sides of our country every day. In 2011-2012, in the pilot application process, we delivered to our students an expansion of 8.800, 2013 pilot app, 49, and 675,000 tablet computer sets in the first pick-up in 2014. In May 2015, I hope to begin the distribution of 700,000 tablet computers in two months. In total, we will have completed the distribution of 1 million 437,800 tablet computer sets. This number corresponds to more than the total number of students in Hungary, Bulgaria, Denmark and Austria. Our work is carried out in accordance with our time plans. During this year -- please note the numbers -- the tender process of the 10,600,000 tablet computer set will be completed, and the distribution of these computers will begin in the first quarter of 2016, hopefully. And I'd like to make a brief statement about the Internet infrastructure. So far, we've completed the tenders for fiber optic Internet infrastructure for about 310,000 classrooms. Even though it's only on the weekend and after classes, hundreds of schools are installed every day. In this year's course, we will have completed the tender process for more than 120,000 classes, and we will have completed the infrastructure of our goal, our 432,288 classroom. It was also mentioned here, and it was also in the media, the claim that the project was earmarked for $8 billion 500 million in budgets. The project was earmarked for symbolic budgets for 2011 to implement pilot applications such as 3 million and 10 million for 2012. Following the pilot applications, our ministry was earmarked for about one billion liras in 2013, 2014, 2015. And I want everyone to know that we're making the ultimate effort to use the budget in the most efficient and efficient way. According to the technical requirements for infrastructure wiring conducted in schools, admission procedures are conducted by admission commissions established separately in 81 districts. The entire process is conducted in accordance with the legislation. I want you to know that if anyone has any different information or documents on this matter, we'll do what we have to do. There are also allegations that all interactive boards in public and here are malfunctioning, which have been established from time to time. So far, as I've just said, we've completed the installation of the interactive board into our 172.417 classroom. In terms of these boards, for three years, there have been 16,890 records of malfunctions. This corresponds to about 3 per cent annually. Besides, interactive wood failures are guaranteed, and therefore, as the Ministry, it does not bring us any separate loads. Thus, the rate of failure in the allegations is afflicted figures. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the Ministry of National Education, we will continue to work sincerely for our children, our beloved nation, our teachers, our students. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0352par0151	Thank you. Talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask about National Education Minister Nabi Avcı will be brought up. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those in favor of bringing up the motion... III. Exposure
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0353par0157	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0354par0158	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0352par0159	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Chosen, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Serticali, Mr. Küreli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Haberal and Mr. Aldan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. All those in favor of bringing up the motion... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0355par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0352par0169	The motion for the gene is not approved.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0355par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit07spe0352par0171	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0352par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 82nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the current Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 5th place, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and banan MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law Order for Amendment in Some Laws and Law Laws; and the Law Order for Laws to Be Changed in Some Laws; and the Minister of the National Education Party for Law and Orders of Law: Mehmet Akif, Minister of Law for Law; the Minister of Law for Education, Manisa MP Free Special's Committee for Public Institutions, and the Minister of Law for Services, and the Committee for Change in Some Laws. The commission and the government are in place. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the first article of the proposal, which was considered the basic law, was adopted in the last chapter. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0356par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding what Mr. Nur Serter had just expressed here, I saw him make a request to the Ministry of Transport regarding the matter of the protocol, looking at the Turkish Grand National Assembly website. The date of the question motion is February 13, 2015, February 16, 2015. He waits a week, ten days, and then he goes to the relevant ministry. This should be answered in 15 days from the time he went to the relevant ministry. Now that we've reached the end of March, this question motion has not been answered like any other motion for the FATIH Project. I understand the reaction of my friends, but I think they should also respond to the Ministry of Transport. What do you do, dear friends, if the Department of Transport is asked about this and the Ministry of Transport isn't responding? As a congressman, I suppose you'd bring that bet here, wouldn't you? Now, I'm wondering if your friends and the members of the Justice and Development Party, the group's deputy presidents, will have any reaction to the Minister of Transport, the Ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0357par0033	Thank you. There are four motions on the 8th article, three of them are the same property, so I read them and process them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa MP Free Special; the Order of Public Institutions and Services and Services Orders to change the Law in certain Laws of Laws and Services. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. İzzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan of Rahmi Love Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk The declaration of "if there is a public anonymous company for the earnings listed in this subcommittee" was added after the infraction of the third paragraph of Article 94 of Article 193, dated 8-31/12/1960. Congressmans, I'm going to read the three motions I'm going to file in the same capacity and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 94 of Article 94 of the Law of IRS, dated 31/12/1960, from the proposal text, which envisions a change in the third paragraph. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı Suat Önal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman Love Look The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Ahmet Duran Bulut of Muharrem Varı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0358par0063	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0357par0064	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0359par0065	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0357par0066	Is that a reason or are you talking?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0360par0067	Well, if the other groups don't talk, we'll say motive, but if they do...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0361par0068	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0360par0069	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0362par0070	Mr. Hamzacebi, you too...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0363par0071	Sir, we use our own will. In case someone talks or doesn't...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0362par0072	I'm reading the reason: With this clause of the bill, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to determine the rates of tax cuts related to the profit distribution due to amendments to Article 94 of the IRS Tax Act and different rates for public anonymous companies. However, in Turkey, the distribution of profits of public anonymous companies corresponds to the category of higher income groups in terms of the existing income classes. With the income gap in Turkey so high, the wage workers will pay a large portion of the income tax, while such an arrangement will deepen this inequality. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. It would be appropriate to remove the substance from the proposal text. Mr. Vural, do you want to talk or do you want to talk?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0364par0078	We're rolling, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0365par0079	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit08spe0362par0080	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0362par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the same two proposals for the removal of the 8th article of the Law Proposal of 705 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to call the number of decisions enough: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. The item is removed from the text. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal of the law where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Since it's been removed from the text, I'm removing the other motion from the process. We will continue the negotiations through the text adopted by the Commission, but then the matter numbers will be identified. There are three motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th Law Proposal of 705 rows in sight. We propose that the last paragraph of the article be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Alim İkm Ahmet Duran Bulut "The proportion in this bench is based on whether the investments in companies are certified by active sizes, employee numbers and yearly net sales, or by the use of capital, or by the areas where the revenues from the institution are not covered by the actual activity of the institution, by interest, the share of profits, the rent, the license fee, the nonviolent income, or by the non-violence of public quality revenues, or by the fact that the capital is being used by the public, according to the amount of capital, or by the amount of capital used for machine and equipment or land investments, or by the areas, sectors and businesses, to reduce them to a separate zero percent, or to the amount of public capital, according to the amount of public capital." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures of Laws, the Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Some Laws and Law Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of Education and the Committee of Humanity and the Minister of Law for Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Law for Education and the Committee of Public Institutions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk of Rahmi Love İzzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Müslim Sarı MADDE 9 - 13/6/2006, and the 1st joke of Article 10 of Article 5520 of the Law on Taxes of Institutions is added to the Bent below. "i) During the account period of capital companies and institutions operating in finance, banking and insurance sectors, except for public economic initiatives, the latest "serious annual rate of interest in commercial loans in Turkey's Republic Central Bank has been calculated by the end of its account period, due to the increase in cash or the amount of capital in the newly established capital companies. This discount is used separately for each period of time that follows, starting from the time of the account, when the initial contract was registered, or the decision on capital increase. The amount of capital reduced in the following period is not considered in the reduction. The discount amount, which will be calculated according to the bent provisions, is calculated as much as the remaining month's account period, as the month's fraction of the cash capital counts as the month's total. Due to the inadequacy of the matrah, they are kept unsubstantiated during the period of the year, handing over to the next account periods. In the implementation of this bell, capital companies are not considered to be credited or loaned by people associated with partners or partners related to the 12th article of the law, whose capital companies are involved in merger, revamping and division operations or adding self-capital pens in the balance sheet. The proportion on this bench is due to non-interesting incomes from active sizes of companies, the legal quality of their partners, the number of employees and yearly net sales revenues, or the main activity of the institution from capital use of capital, to reduce interest, interest, share of profits, rent, licens, property sales revenues, or to increase public capitals to 100 per cent, or to increase public equity to a separate zero, according to the fact that the capital is not documented, or to the extent that capital is used for machinery or equipment or land investments are used by the area, sectors, sectors and businesses, and businesses, and businesses, to increase them to 100 per cent, or to public equity, according to the amount of public capital, to the public, to the extent of the amount of the amount of public capital. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Section 9 of Article 9 of the first amendment to Article 10 of Article 5520, dated 13/6/2006 of the proposed bill 705, which stipulates a change in Article 10 of the Act of the Institutions Tax. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Bingöl Mardin Hakkari Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0366par0032	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0362par0033	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0367par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0362par0035	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0368par0037	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, this interest, the currency lobby, they're jumping up and down, the dollar's popping up. Well, then, with a small arrangement in finance, banking, insurance, etcetera, some of the people involved in the crisis burden of the coming term... you've already reduced the institutional tax from 30 to 20 per cent, in the phalanx of your power, and in the mastery of your power, these are the good stuff. Now, that includes 40,000 teachers in training. You know how we're all sensitive to teacher assignments? When you bring in a good substance, you always add a few poisons to it. So you bring fuses from the noses of this nation. That's the idea of this bag of laws. I mean, we're gonna be there for two weeks, we're gonna go together, maybe we're gonna run into each other in the streets, in other cities, and we're gonna look at each other's faces, but for God's sake, you're still making us work all the way up to three to four. Now, you know, there was an arrangement in which the YSK was assigned to RTÜK. We had it removed in the Commission. We pulled water out of a thousand streams until we got it removed. Yes, to the authorities of the YSK to all private televisions to promote elections to power. Then, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has no dowry, no housing, nothing. Who are you kidding, guys? This isn't the social government. For God's sake, don't make this place. Now, look, I'll tell you a story: at the time -- they say -- it's routine, no offense to anyone -- there's a very vicious network or a gentleman or a king, who's been very cruel around you, his people, his employees. And the day came, and he gathered all the people, and he said, "I have done a lot of bad things to all of you in my health. This is my last will, and I am about to die, and when I die, hang me by my feet in the oak tree, and those who come from the village and go to the village shall strike me with stones and with sticks, and I will have a conscience, and you will at least be free from me in this way. They will fulfill their will, and they will hang me from their feet, and they will stone me to the oak tree, and they will beat me. The gendarmes will go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on And they will come to their senses, and they will say, "Yea, he has done this to us, and he has done this to us." And you will go to the election, and you will bring it from his nose. What is this, if you love God?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0369par0042	We're not taking this personally, Mr. Hasip!
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0368par0043	Which bank, which financial sector, which capital, which one are you doing? You see what this painting is? How many companies take advantage of that? 17 banks win the most, 28 holdings win the most. Now, I'm asking you, for God's sake, you get 70 percent of the indirect taxes, 80 percent of the tax, from the citizen, that's what you get. No income justice, no justice in the division, no justice in the tax, and then, sir, the Ministry of the Family will provide dowry. My brother, find work for those who are unemployed, and there is no need for dowry. Get a job, a job. Open a business for people who work in the open. When you open up a business, he'll keep the house and get married and start his job. Now, you have him on condition. Learn from the past in the matter of housing. We're still working on KEY money. These are serious issues, and it works if we partner up. Otherwise, believe me, there's one right, five wrong in this bag of laws. Unfortunately, these five wrongs are written in your household, and you're going to do propaganda on one line in the election areas, that's not enough. There's another 300,000 teachers short. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0370par0048	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures of Laws, the Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Some Laws and Law Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of Education and the Committee of Humanity and the Minister of Law for Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Law for Education and the Committee of Public Institutions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends MADDE 9 - 13/6/2006, and the 1st joke of Article 10 of Article 5520 of the Law on Taxes of Institutions is added to the Bent below. "i) During the account period of capital companies and institutions operating in finance, banking and insurance sectors, except for public economic initiatives, the latest "serious annual rate of interest in commercial loans in Turkey's Republic Central Bank has been calculated by the end of its account period, due to the increase in cash or the amount of capital in the newly established capital companies. This discount is used separately for each period of time that follows, starting from the time of the account, when the initial contract was registered, or the decision on capital increase. The amount of capital reduced in the following period is not considered in the reduction. The discount amount, which will be calculated according to the bent provisions, is calculated as much as the remaining month's account period, as the month's fraction of the cash capital counts as the month's total. Due to the inadequacy of the matrah, they are kept unsubstantiated during the period of the year, handing over to the next account periods. In the implementation of this bell, capital companies are not considered to be credited or loaned by people associated with partners or partners related to the 12th article of the law, whose capital companies are involved in merger, revamping and division operations or adding self-capital pens in the balance sheet. The proportion on this bench is due to non-interesting incomes from active sizes of companies, the legal quality of their partners, the number of employees and yearly net sales revenues, or the main activity of the institution from capital use of capital, to reduce interest, interest, share of profits, rent, licens, property sales revenues, or to increase public capitals to 100 per cent, or to increase public equity to a separate zero, according to the fact that the capital is not documented, or to the extent that capital is used for machinery or equipment or land investments are used by the area, sectors, sectors and businesses, and businesses, and businesses, to increase them to 100 per cent, or to public equity, according to the amount of public capital, to the public, to the extent of the amount of the amount of public capital. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0371par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0370par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0372par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0370par0063	Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0373par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received word on the motion we made in Article 9 of the 705 Law Proposal. At this time of night, or rather on the night of a tense day, I salute you all. Article 9 is a provision for reducing interest from the corporate tax matrix to promote capital growth, which is calculated in capital companies via capital increase. And in principle, it's a substance we don't see very problematic. But there are some problems that we think are much more fundamental to the tax system or the tax system. I'd like to discuss these problems with you, if I may. What is one of the most important problems of Turkey's economy? Here, and what economic problem did the AKP fail to solve? The first thing that comes to mind is taxes. We're at a point today where our tax system is illegitimate. We have a tax system that doesn't understand the power to buy, which is provided through more expenses, and is placed in an illegitimate framework. Today, about 70 percent of our taxes are covered by indirect taxes. In fact, even before 2001, indirect taxes have been a very heavy place in our system, but even after 2001, we see it growing and growing in your power. Now, why are we against indirect taxes? Because indirect taxes don't grasp the power to buy, they're illegitimate. Think of a $1 tax on a property, and if the plowman takes it, he'll pay the same tax for a dollar, and Mr. Demiröz will pay the same tax. However, its place in Mr. Demiröz's budget is not the same as its place in Sabancı's budget. So these are illegitimate taxes, and Turkey must deal violently with the tax system, and it must restructure. Today, almost every gas station in Turkey works like a tax office. The system is taxed because it can catch, so it's illegal. When we look at all the developed countries, we see that the tax systems of those countries are the exact opposite of what we have and what we have. For example, when we look at Western countries, the countries of the European Union that we want to enter, we see that direct taxes in those countries are the main backbone of the tax system. In fact, this has been discussed since 2001. Since the stand-by agreement with the IMF, one of Turkey's most important problems has been a tax reform, a direct tax reform, and we are now committed as a government. This is a government commitment to both the stand-by agreement we made in 2002 and later the 2005 stand-by agreement. Now, what I'd like to ask you is that you've been in power for 12 years, you've been in power alone for 12 years, and you're bragging about being in power alone. But why do you insist on this tax system, which is one of Turkey's most important structural problems, which operates in a non-profit manner, creates unique positions for individuals, disrupts income distribution for people? There's a tax law on the agenda of the Plan and Budget Commission, about corporate tax and income tax. So, even if we don't want it to be exactly what we want about the tax, at least there's a reform initiative, but you can't bring this bill that's been on the Commission's agenda for two years, and we can't discuss it. So we still can't understand why a single party in power for 12 years still hasn't thought, why it hasn't discussed, why it hasn't brought such a structural problem to our agenda. Well, why? One of the questions is simple, one of the answers is simple, because it's simple, because it's easy to release taxes from indirect taxes. When people say "alo" you get his tax, when they go to gas stations, when they put gas in their cars, you get his tax. You don't need a good tax system, you don't need a very well-regulated tax system, it's easy to get, it's easy to get. Therefore, your government chooses what is simple, what is right, but not what is difficult. This tax reform is desperately needed in Turkey, and hopefully next semester the Republican People's Party will carry out this tax reform that Turkey misses. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0374par0077	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the last paragraph of the 9th article of the current Law Proposal 705 rows be changed in the following way. "The proportion in this bench is based on whether the investments in companies are certified by active sizes, employee numbers and yearly net sales, or by the use of capital, or by the areas where the revenues from the institution are not covered by the actual activity of the institution, by interest, the share of profits, rent, license, the price of the property, or by the non-violence income, or whether the investments in which the capital is being used are from incentives to public capital to 200 per cent, or by the means of capital used for machine and equipment or land investments, or by the areas, sectors and businesses, or by the business branch of business, to increase them to a separate zero per cent, or to 100 per cent, according to public capital, according to public equity. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0375par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0374par0086	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0376par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0374par0088	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0377par0091	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have submitted on Article 9 of Law Proposal No. 705. On this occasion, at this late night, I salute you all. Now, of course, we're close to the end of the House. Another bag is being downloaded to the General Board before one bag is finished. For example, the bag number 688 came to number 705 before it could complete the law. We're still negotiating on him. Again, when you look inside this bag of legislation, there are some items that the citizen would like, but there are other items in there that are not sure who might be useful to him, some names are hidden. The 9th article is one of these substances. Some capital companies are expected to receive tax reduction rates. In particular, our motion is a motion for public capital companies to be authorized to apply different powers by the Council of Ministers, up to 200 per cent, according to the rate of public openness, to encourage public access. But, more importantly, the heart would love it if we could actually solve the problems of a lot of troubled people right now in this bag of legislation. For example, if we could find a cure for minimum wage. If only we could come up with the solutions that the farmer, the retired, the industrialist, the businessman, the businessman, is now waiting for from this great Parliament. I wish we could solve the problems of college boys who are unemployed, who are stacking up on doors, willing to do subcontractor work for minimum wage. We're coming to the end of the legislature, and we can't bring any arrangements to solve the real problems to this General Assembly, I'm afraid. Of course, the quality of living is getting lower. Over and over the commission, a bag of legislation, which has been discussed for days, is coming here, where the government makes motions to remove some of the clauses of the law that they forced from there. Then why did we waste the time of this grand coven out there? If you were going to take it off, why did you bring it? You're making a motion to change certain substances here. If it was important, why wasn't there so much discussion upstairs? These, of course, all need to be discussed. Again, we've entered the election process, three independent ministers have taken a new position in order for the election process to function well, but here we see the minister who should be independent in order to defend this bill on behalf of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these have led to the decline in the quality of this House, indeed. At least it's important for the ruling party to pay attention to such matters at least at the end of the term. Sadly, we read what we know. Such matters continue to be brought here with understanding. The assignment of 47,000 teachers is important, but it doesn't solve the problem. In this country, right now, more than 80,000 paid teachers teach at schools. Dear lawmakers, if this government can't replace these teachers with a staff teacher, it has to take off its hat and think about it. These kids are our kids. On the one hand, Bank is being made statements from the highest stage of the structure of Asia and the Business Bank, crime is being committed, violations of existing legislation, but no one's doing their job, unfortunately, is being seen. In other words, we bring dowry allowances, dowry accounts, housing accounts, maternity aid. Imagine, for God's sake, a young man who will open a dowry account will save three years in a bank, not over twenty years old, and then, after that, if you'll be so kind, you'll help out up to 5,000 lira. In this country, the average age of marriage has now reached 30, the valued lawmakers, who are you kidding? You open a housing account; you will save three years, and then you will provide government support, which will not exceed up to 15,000 liras or 20 percent of what he has saved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, I'm afraid we're wasting this process with some of the stuff that looks cute before the election. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0378par0106	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0379par0107	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0378par0108	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0379par0109	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit09spe0378par0110	Let's look at the item. I submit the clause to your votes, I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 82nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote on Article 9 of Law Proposal No. 705 was not enough. Now, I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that I have to make. All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal of the law where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are four motions on Article 10 of the same nature, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the 10th amendment to Article 15 of Law No. 5520 from the proposal text. Fair Zozani Faysal Sarı Yıldız Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar Ali Riza Özturk of Rahmi Love İzzet Cetin Mehmet Hilal Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Suat Önal Osman Love Look Yeah, I'm running the alibis. No one wants a word.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0380par0029	Commission... commission...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0381par0030	You didn't ask the commission, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0031	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0382par0032	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0033	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0383par0034	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0035	I'm having the reasons read.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0384par0036	We're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0037	You did, yes. With this clause of the bill, the Council of Ministers is authorized to determine the rates of tax cuts of institutions related to the distribution of profits for public anonymous companies at different rates. The public presence of an anonymous company in the financial capital system is not a factor that prevents capital from being concentrated at a certain centre and creating a monopoly. In this direction, regulations will further pave the way for the capital to develop against the general population. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. The motion aims to redact the law. The item was intended to be removed from the proposal text. The motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0045	There's a speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0046	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0047	We have a conversation, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0048	I've made him read the grounds, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0049	No, we have a conversation, Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0050	Mr. Hamzacebi, I've asked you from the beginning if you've read the instructions, do you have a speaker? I think you missed it and I had it read.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0051	You didn't ask me, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0052	I did, sir. I asked all the groups.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0053	No, you didn't ask me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0054	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0055	Mr. President, no, sir, we have a conversation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0056	I get it... let's ask for the transcripts. I mean, if there's anything I can do, okay, let's just...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0057	Mr. President, we've submitted our request to the Court, our chart is in front of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0058	Mr. Hamzacebi, there is no intention here, and there is no negligence on my part. If you'd like to ask for the transcripts, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0059	Mr. President, let me finish for a second, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0060	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0061	In which article, in which motion, we have given you the chart on which our friend will speak, which stands in your office. Every time you...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0062	Mr. Hamzacebi, after I had them read the motions, I asked the groups if they had to read it or if there were speakers. We can ask for the transcripts. I'll take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0063	Sir, wait... have you been given a statement from the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. President? It wasn't done, if it was done. So read from the Republican People's Party Group. If it is said, I accept.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0064	I've asked all the groups, sir. The National Movement Party said, "I'm shooting."
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0385par0065	Sir, you asked the groups, but did you get the statement from the groups, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0066	But in general, sir, I asked all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0386par0067	No, not like that.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0387par0068	You'll have to ask me one at a time.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0069	I said, "Do I need to read it or is there a speaker?"
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0388par0070	Mr. President, read the Republican People's Party Group. He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0071	Sir, ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0388par0072	Look, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0073	Yeah, let's see.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0388par0074	Let's take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit10spe0378par0075	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. The 10th article was kept in the process of the motions to remove it from the same text. Mr. Hamzacebi, I have the report. ▪ The President's reasons? Yeah, I'm running the alibis. No one asks. I ask.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0389par0008	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0009	One moment, sir... You didn't ask the Commission about Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul). Does the president -- does the Commission agree with the motion? Plan and Budget Commission Speaker Firstinur Denizli (Izmir), we agree, Mr. President. The president? The government? Minister of Justice Kenan İpek - we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0016	You're not asking, you're making me read the reasons.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0017	I'm asking, sir, if it's necessary.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0018	But, wait, look...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0019	Here you go, I promise. I asked for the reasons, sir. I'm guessing you weren't here at the time, or maybe you jumped. But, here's the point, not to give you five minutes to the Republican People's Party Group. I asked. The nationalist movement group has pulled the trigger, which I'm here to point out. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0021	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0022	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0023	Wait a second... I'll make a statement. No, I don't accept your explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0024	Make your statement, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0025	Sir, now Mr. Kubat says you didn't ask the Commission.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0026	Turn on the system, please, and I'll promise you the system. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0028	Now, Mr. President, I'm having them read. After that, Mr. Kubat warns you, you didn't ask the Commission. You ask the commission, you ask the government, and then you start making them read the grounds. You didn't ask the groups after the commission and the government.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0029	I asked you first, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0030	But wait a second, sir...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0031	Yes, I'm reading the reasons. No one wants a word.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0032	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0033	That's what the report says. I'll send you the report, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0034	Mr. President, shouldn't you ask the Commission first?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0035	It happens from time to time, I forgot, sir, I repeated it.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0036	Mr. President, look, you're not saying that. Now you feel like you've done everything properly, as if the opposition has been lacking. To tell you the truth, I'm expressing my regrets.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0037	Make your sorrows known.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0038	After you ask the Commission, you have to ask the groups: do you want motive or do you want to talk? You didn't ask us. Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0040	Yes, I asked you, sir. I also promise Mr. Crescent Kaplan. Asked, sir. Here are the transcripts. I'm sending them to you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0390par0041	Mr. President, are you still insisting?
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0378par0042	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0391par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our motion on the 10th amendment of Law Proposal 705. At this time of night, after a bit of tension, I believe we should have a more calm conversation or a more calm discussion of how we can spend the day. Dear lawmakers, this is a classic of the Justice and Development Party again, a bag of laws. This bag is a package of non-assigned teachers, the Capital Market Law, the TRT, social policy, which is more, like this, to get votes. Well, we're used to it, but there's some trouble with the fact that you guys keep bringing bags, but you're in such a hurry to bring this in. For example, although there are laws in this bag that directly concern the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and also concern six or seven commissions, none of the six or seven commissions have been taken into consideration. Let's not count the commissions here one by one. I wonder why you're doing this. Now, do you remember, like the Homeland Security package, we all agreed to a clause in a law proposal that's important to all parts of society, which we oppose almost all of them, but it's like substance abuse in it. And here you brought some problems with the unassigned teachers, the unassigned teachers, and we said no? Why don't you discuss it on the commissions? I want to pick on you a little bit. If my commissioners are here, does anyone direct the commissioners? Are they taking orders from someone? How do they explain that there are reasons for the bill sent to them, that I can't find the time, that I can't gather? The reason I'm picking on this is that if there's a reason why the commissions don't really meet on a level right here, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on the stand of the nation. Look, I want to give you an example: this bag contains a positive picture of the appointment of 47 thousand teachers. Can you imagine opposition parties or Republican People's Party opposing that? No. We have already stated that during the period of your government in Turkey, there were nearly 300,000 unassigned teachers due to the random construction of the national education programme. According to European norms, up to 210,000 teachers must be appointed. Again, in the Minister of National Education's term statements, around 110,000 teachers should be appointed, but you bring 47,000. Now, is it a crime or is it not a crime for us to express the rights of the remaining 250,000 teachers not assigned here? Why do they have such a problem, would it be wrong to express it? Besides, we're happy to have a teacher assigned to this law, even though it's palatial, but I want to remind you that we're always talking about teachers who aren't appointed and who can't be appointed, and look at our assigned friends who are teaching. Which teacher's salary is above the poverty line? Let one of you come out, and say on this stand: "The teacher's salary is above the poverty line." See, in the survey, 80 per cent of teachers have credit, credit card debt and bank loans, 30 per cent of them do additional work, paint, paint, drive, deal, sell. Now, I'm asking you, haven't you considered taking precautions about that? Doesn't that hurt you? Doesn't it bother you that our teachers, the teachers who raised our future children, are selling and living under difficult circumstances? Would it be wrong to express these things from this bench? There's a lot to be said at this hour of the night, but this bag is also an investment in the election in the law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We need to enlighten the public at the point of information.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0392par0055	That's a lot of light.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0391par0056	It suits you to say such a thing at this hour. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0393par0059	Congressmans, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0394par0061	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0393par0062	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse...
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0395par0063	Mr. President, the AK PARTY Group has lifted both of them.
tbmm-2015-03-24sit11spe0393par0064	Yeah, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
