tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Congressmans, in the 25th term, I would like to invite the General Assembly to a moment of silence before the memory of Mr. Süleyman Demirel, the 9th President of the Republic of Turkey, who died on 17 June 2015. [[Respect has been held]] God rest his soul. Members of parliament, there is a paper on the appointment of the President of the National Defence Minister, and I will have him read it and present it to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interest: Prime Minister's entry, dated 3/7/2015 and 69471265,300-01/7341. Mehmet Vecdi Gonul was appointed to the Ministry of National Defence, who was discharged from İsmet Yilmaz, who had been elected chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 109 and 113. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, under Article 109 of the Constitution, the National Minister of Defence, who is appointed and is not a member of parliament, must take an oath according to Article 112 of the Constitution. Now, I would like to call Mr. Mehmet Vecdi Gonul of the National Defence Minister to the stand to swear an oath. Here you go, Mr. Heart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[National Defence Minister Mehmet Vecdi Gönul has sworn in]] [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Good luck with that. Congressmans, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a proposal for the number of members and the distribution of the post, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors had failed to reach a consensus at a meeting on 7/7/2015; the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 18 members, including the President of the Presidential Council of Turkey and the distribution of positions; 1 deputy to the Justice and Development Party Group; 4 clerks, 2 executive managers; 1 vice president to the Republican People's Party Group; 2 clerks, 1 executive manager to the National Movement Party Group; 1 president to the People's Party Group; 1 secretary, 1 member to the Democratic Party Group; 1 chief and 1 manager to the group; 1 chief to the People's Party group; 1 chief. Anybody want a word on the proposal? Yeah, I see you don't. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Thank you. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 10 July 2015, the Russian Federation's capital will be held in Moscow. "The Current International Legal Problems of the Century," İstanbul MP Prof. Dr. The issue of Osman Can's participation is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on Ordering Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0002par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0053	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0002par0054	Mr. President, is this a request for a Parliamentary delegation or a personal request? Information to Parliament on this issue... because if it is the Parliamentary Committee, then there must be a dispersal between the parties. In that respect, if you would inform me about this... I beg of you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0055	Thank you. There was an invitation to the name. Therefore, there was no invitation to a Parliament. If it's an invitation to Parliament, we'll have a much wider turnout than the groups, but I'd like to point out that this is an invitation to the name. Thank you. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0003par0060	Mr. President, if this is an invitation to the name, how is this presented to Parliament's approval? So in connection with your special invitation, how correct is it to legalize it in Parliament?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0061	Mr. Tanal, this request is not a name, but a statement from the State Department.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0003par0062	But that's how you explained it, General Board. An invitation to the name, Your...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0063	Okay. An invitation to the name comes through the State Department to our House. It's for your information.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0004par0066	But it's not voteable, my dear President. So this Parliament... the State will make that decision on its own. I mean, why are you using the General Assembly?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0067	Congressmans, let me make a statement. In Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there has been an invitation to international meetings. In the third part of the article, invitations to the name were also included. According to this verdict: The committee will be elected with the approval of the General Assembly on the positive opinion of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as long as international meetings are in accordance with the percentages of political party groups in the invitations given by name. It's for your information.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0070	But as long as the political parties are in line with their rates, you have read the declaration. Is this in the thesis?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0071	Mr. Tanal, if there were too many people, it was true, because there was one person.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0072	That's the problem, that's the problem! It's a contradiction to what you're saying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0073	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0074	I'd like to open up a legal debate about this. This is indeed a violation of the Constitution, dear President, to the existing Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0075	Mr. Tanal, there's no law against that.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0076	We'd like to open a legal debate against your attitude.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0077	It's good for practice, too. And there are examples of old, which We bring forth to you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0078	Now, when you say "compliance," you need counsel to the Court. You have two other members, Mr. President, who are against both the Civil Code and the Constitution, to mortgage their will without their opinion.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0079	Mr. Tanal, we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0005par0080	The Court needs to make a decision, and your disregard of the Court and decision by yourself is contrary to the regulations that really exist. I don't want you to get your act together...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0001par0081	Mr. Tanal, the procedure is in accordance with the law. Thank you. Congressmans, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis, and I'm reading: Subject: Council of Ministers Principle 1/72015 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the permission of the United Nations Security Council on 11/8/2006 to adopt Decision 1701 (2006) and of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a year under its 5/9/2006 resolution 880, Turkey contributed to the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon with elements of the Armed Forces. The length of the permit is finally extended one year from 5/9/2014, dated 2/7/2014 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contribution to UNIFIL, Turkey has taken an important role in carrying out an effective peacekeeping operation. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made a significant contribution in the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and through comprehensive civil-military co-operation activities, to boost its visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, and to maintain its policy for maintaining peace and stability. UNIFIL is also considered to be the only United Nations Peacekeeper operation our country contributes to military forces, and it is considered important to continue our contribution to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force. UNIFIL's mandate will expire on 31/8/2015 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after this date. In light of these issues and in view of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL's mandate, I will allow the Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be defined by the government, to be held by the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 (2006), and the 92nd Article of the Constitution under the principles determined by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, and to participate in UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year, starting from 5/9/2015. Government? Here. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. The period of speech is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the stand on the counter: In the name of the government, Vecdi Gonul, Minister of National Defense. On behalf of the groups: Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the People's Party Group; Murat Özcelik on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Emrullah İslam on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Ankara MP; Sırrıyya Önder on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Ankara MP. In the name of the individuals, ten minutes: Mehmet Şeker, Gaziantep MP; Shirin Ünal, İstanbul MP. The first word is Vecdi Gonul, Minister of the National Defence, on behalf of the government to explain the reason for the thesis. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0006par0105	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I humbly congratulate our newly elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our members of parliament, who have been honored by the duties of our great people. Mr. President, the United Nations Temporary Task Force of Lebanon, UNIFIL, is stated as UNIFIL, that I am at your peace with you as to the grounds of the Prime Minister's thesis on the further participation of Turkish Armed Forces within the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon starting on September 5, 2015, in order to ensure that the UNIFIL Naval Task Force remains in force for another year. I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it is most obvious that any development associated with regional stability, security and peace that we cannot remain indifferent to the difficult process that we share a common history of centuries in which this geography is passing, is reflected on our domestic and foreign policy. In this respect, our country considers it a priority target of its foreign policy, to contribute to the resolving of the problems surrounding it as a force and balance element in its region, to reinventing the peace and security environment. UNIFIL, the most concrete indicator of our activities in the international environment, is an international security force created for the purpose of the peace plant and execution of Lüban on August 11, 2006, under UN Security Council resolution 1701 to end the Israeli-Lubnan war in the summer of 2006 and to ensure a ceasefire. In this process, during which our country was actively involved in the creation of our country, the Turkish Armed Forces' participation in UNIFIL was approved on September 5, 2006 by the Supreme Assembly's decision 880, and the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces were assigned from 2006 to the region. As part of UNIFIL, which has an important contribution to maintaining stability and security on the Lebanese-Israeli border, the Turkish Intelligence Construction Company, which is composed of non-combatant elements that operate at sea and non-combatants, has started its mandate since October 2006. Under the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 6 July 2013 and 1045, the situation in Syria has been terminated due to internal dynamics in Lebanon, and since September 2013, our company has arrived in Turkey. No land troops are required to be assigned to Lebanon. During its mandate, the Turkish Construction Company, located in the town of Co-Shaatiye, near Sur, has implemented many important projects, including renovation and maintenance of main supply roads, helipad construction and maintenance, construction of infrastructures, maintenance of existing buildings and structures, construction and maintenance of new structures and shelters, as part of tasks carried out by UNIFIL. Our Turkish Engineer Construction Company has also earned the recognition of the region's citizens through civil-military cooperation, which UNIFIL has carried out in addition to its duties. Mr. President, the current mandate of the Turkish Armed Forces Unsur, which have joined the UNIFIL Naval Task Force, has been extended one year since 5 September 2014, with the Turkish Parliament's decision dated 2 July 2014 and 1067. Our contribution to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force, which has been going on since 2006, is driven by frigates, offensive, corvet and Tuzla-class police stations in 2014-2015. It is already being contributed to the operation by the Tuzla-class police station ship, the villager. Under Operation UNIFIL, Beirut, Limasol, Mersin ports are designated official ports for UNIFIL Naval Task Force. The logistical supplies of country ships participating in the operation are made from ports on the bet. The port of Mersin is being used for logistical supplies by Turkish Marine Corps elements, and the service period of our Beirut Harbor ships is once in a row to receive a mission briefing. According to the programme, the United Task Force (CTF 448), under the command of the Brazilian Rear Admiral, performs control operations at sea with three-day periods assigned at sea; fuel and other logistical needs from the Port of Mersin -- as I have just provided. Two Bangladesh ships, one Brazil, Germany, Indonesia and Greece are with us under the command of the United Task Force, along with TCG Villagers. We also have two headquarters officers stationed at UNIFIL headquarters in Nakara/Lubnan. In UNIFIL, there are about 11,500 personnel from 38 countries, including Turkey. It is remarkable for our foreign policy and international conjunctive that we participate in the UNIFIL campaign, which is not neighbouring to the Mediterranean basin, including Germany, Croatia, Cambodia, and even countries such as Cambodia. Mr. President, it is UNlFIL's duty to determine the entry of weapons and materials into the Lebanese territorial waters and ports of Lebanon, to bring humanitarian aid to civilians at the request of Lebanon, to act as a command on the sea by the security of the borders of the United Nations Security Council in 1701 - 2006 -- and 1832 - 2008 -- as required by its decisions. The United Nations member states are required to allocate unity to support UNIFIL elements in order to fulfill the tasks set out in the decision on the bet. I would also like to stress that the United Nations has decided that the elements in the region are not to be removed or used on any other mission, except for the tasks I've expressed above. So there won't be the power of law that we'll be tasked with. Another important issue as part of our contribution to UNlFIL is the signing of agreements and aid letters between Turkey and the United Nations secretariat on the repayment of costs for our elements in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force, which aims to build peace and stability in the region. In this context, the costs of our military assets are being paid by the United Nations. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, our country is determined to continue to take part in establishing stability and peace in its region and in the world, as it has done in the past, through its own and its international institutions. In view of all these developments, the role of UNlFIL in maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon has become even more important at this time. Due to its contribution to peace and stability in Lebanon, the government of Lebanon and all the parties in Lebanon are deeply concerned about UNlFIL's activities and the extension of UNlFIL's mandate. Given the requirements, UNFIL's term as a year-long mandate is expected to be extended by the United Nations Security Council for a year starting on August 31st 2015, as it has been in the past years. In view of all the issues I have presented above, the continued contribution of our country to the UNIFIL Peacekeeping Operation, which has been active in its contribution to its contribution to the UNFIL Peacekeeping Operation, and the direct demands of the Lebanon authorities and the security conditions in the United Nations system, which we are contributing to in the United Nations Peacekeeping Force's operation, the continuation of our presence within the system, the continuation of our policies for the preservation of peace and stability in our region, and the establishment of the Turkish Armed Forces on the part of the United Nations Council of the United Nations, as well as a significant contribution to maintaining its starboard and assets in the eastern Mediterranean, and the decision of the UN Security Council of the United Nations, should be carried out in order to ensure that the UN will be carried out by the United Nations Council of the United Nations, and the United Nations Council of the United Nations, as part of the United Nations, and the United Nations Council of the United Nations Council of the United Nations, and the United Nations, as part of the United Nations, and the United Nations Council of the United Nations Council of the United Nations, and the United States, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as possible as possible of the Council of the United States, the Council of the United States, the Council of the United States, the Council of the United States, the United States, and the United States, the Council of the Council of the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the Council of the United States, the Council of the United States, the United States, and its. Mr. President and members of lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0007par0129	Mr. Secretary, thank you. Now, on behalf of the groups, the first speaker is Tuğrul Türkesh, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Turkesh, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0008par0133	Mr. President, in order to maintain peace in Lebanon, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, which will allow the UNIFIL Interim Task Force to contribute to Turkey's Armed Forces for another year, and I salute the General Assembly. I hereby ask my great Lord to bless the Turkish nation of this period on this first day of the 25th century of our great Parliament. I want our country and our people to live safely, healthy and happy at this time. He wishes you respected lawmakers to do good, beautiful, and for the good of the country, and I hereby congratulate your Ramadan sheriff. After the 2006 Israeli-Lubnan war, the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) was formed in Lebanon for the purpose of the establishment and maintenance of peace in Lebanon. The mandate of UNIFIL, established by the UN Security Council on 11 August 2006, was temporarily set for a year. The same decision envisions that the period should be extended again every year, if necessary. UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended eight times so far. Today, we are negotiating the 9th part of this. We, as the People's Movement Party, look positively at the extension of this dissertation, as in the past years, because we find it right to maintain peace in our region, secure our social and cultural relations with Lebanon within the framework of the UN Temporary Task Force at this time. Each year, Turkey assesses the issues that come to the Grand National Assembly at different times, believing that the United Nations Interim Task Force UNIFIL is necessary to exist as the National Movement Party. Highly valued MPs, we cannot handle the events and developments in Lebanon alone. The situation in Lebanon must be assessed under all developments in the region. If we don't see what happened in the Middle East as a whole and we look at each event and make individual assessments of the countries, we will undoubtedly cause great errors. In Iraq and recent times, what has occurred in Syria has threatened all our neighbors, and recent developments can also reach the extent that Lebanon can be included in the process. This vision does not belong to yesterday or today. On July 19, 2012, I made this statement in my press release entitled "The New Lebanon War" in which I shared my thoughts with the public. The AKP's government, which has been at work for 13 years and, unfortunately, misjudged events in the region at all times, has violated our country's border security and inner peace, while taxes collected from our citizens are also squandered due to these errors. However, I know all about his usual arrogance and arrogance. In the weather, he misjudged events and ignored our suggestions and warnings. Dear lawmakers, last year I made a promise on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for UNIFIL again, and I made the following assessments concerning the region, and I repeat: another point we mentioned was that there was a possible migration after the unrest caused by ISIS there. Just three weeks ago, when we met with the authorities, they were looking at the possibility that they had crossed the border today, they were crossing the border. I told you that politics in this region should be addressed much more seriously, much more rationally, and much more comprehensively; much more serious, and again, I quote. Again, Mr. President-General at a group meeting in the Turkish Grand National Assembly on October 9, 2012, the wave of threats caused by Syria now includes multidimensional, multi-dimensional risks and concerns. The refugee flood must be controlled and should never be allowed to be formed by a new hepmerge management or Kandil in northern Syria. Throughout the 13 years of ruling alone, I know everything and I know the best. Turkey has returned to a refugee camp as a result of its mentality. Now, we are a welcoming country, we open our doors to everyone. I hear the words. Of course, we're a hospitable country, there's no doubt about it, but how many years will these people survive in these camps? Come on, let's say they did. And how many years will the Republic of Turkey carry this burden on its back? So far it's said to have been spent over $5.5 billion. Just as we have expressed our warnings and suggestions to the government on the flow of refugees, we have now given you warnings and advice on the developments in Syria and the buffer zone that will be created. Look, on August 6, 2012, exactly three years ago, at a press conference, Mr. President warns you and offers his suggestion that if the western end of Afrin (Afrin) and the east end were to be built to minimise threats to our country, the crescent-shaped security belt should be provided and carried out immediately. Instead of taking into account our proposals, it has become more than necessary to engage in a violent cycle of Syrian violence, and instead of being the focus of regional peacekeeping dialogue, a deep mistake has been made as part of a neighbouring country's civil war. Dear lawmakers, thanks to our foreign policy on our southern border, our exemplary foreign policy all over the world, and our political role models in the Middle East, it's not pleasant where we come from. Cerablus, 90km long between Afrin and Kobani, will also take control of the terrorist organisation, the entire Syrian border until Hatay of Turkey will be under the control of this terrorist organisation. This is a clear threat to the Republic of Turkey, and this threat is too important to ignore. We, the National Movement Party, have seen Turkey's security as more than parties, and we continue to see it. The end can never be tolerated, nor should it be shown at the borders of the Republic of Turkey. In October 2014, Turkey was adopted by the Grand National Assembly for such reasons. Political power must defend our country and our nation by decisive action of all national forces and Turkish Armed Forces. This should not require permission from any state; legal rights born from international law must be used. From the moment these events broke out, we had expressed the demographic structure of the region as a result of events that could not be achieved by a rash, hasty and radical foreign policy, as a result of a new and artificial state on our southern border. These issues, which we have long expressed as the National Movement Party, have finally been addressed by the government at the iftar tables and decisions of the National Security Council. At a meeting of the National Security Council on June 29, 2015, we observe that it has arrived a little late to what we call it, which we consider to be encouraging. At this point, I suggest to the government that we examine the threats in a much more rational and calm state than in the past, and you must understand and act accordingly, because that is what our national interests require. Dear MPs, UNIFIL, who is continuing its mission to maintain peace in Lebanon, reiterated that we support and salute the Grand Assembly as the National Movement Party for Armed Forces to extend Turkey's contribution to the UN Interim Force for another year.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0009par0147	Mr. Turkesh, thank you. Murat Özçelik, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0010par0151	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge to announce our party's views on the declaration submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution. I wish the new House and the year of legislation were creative and efficient in solving our country's vital problems, and in meeting the expectations of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, freedoms, equality and prosperity in the context of fair sharing. I salute you all with love and respect. As the Republican People's Party, we see the Turkish Armed Forces' participation in international legitimacy in the United Nations Peacekeeping Force operations as well as improving the positive outlook of our Armed Forces in the nation's community, strengthening Turkey's weight within the United Nations and serving the world and the region's peace. The experience of the Turkish Armed Forces in the region is undisputed that the United Nations in Lebanon holds great value for the Temporal Peace Corps. We believe that the activities of the United Nations on the legitimate ground for regional peace will surely benefit Turkey. While stressing that it is important for us to act with our allies in regional matters, I would like to stress that the positive impact of such activities on the national interests of the Republic of Turkey should be a priority. In this sense, it is vital not only for Lebanon but also for our country's entire Middle Eastern geography - our neighbors - to gain peace and stability. On the one hand, with coalition or early elections forecasts, we believe that a more primitive and ground-breaking path should be followed in the foreign policy context these days, when the agenda revolves around developments in Syria and Iraq. Progress in Syria and Iraq poses a serious threat to our country. Sadly, the negativity of these two neighbors is a product of the wrong and adventurous foreign policy Turkey has seen in recent years. So, Turkey has lost its peace and stability in its foreign policy and has been driven to an increasingly isolated position in the region and in the world, contrary to its own interests. Communication is vital to resolving relations with our neighbors and finding solutions to common problems. However, as a result of recent wrong foreign policy methods, the level of diplomatic relations with many countries has been lowered and even halted altogether. As a matter of fact, our ambassadors in Egypt, Syria, Israel, Luxembourg, Austria, the Vatican, Yemen, and Libya were taken. Thus, our relations with these countries are extremely low. Our relations with Syria, Iraq and Egypt must first be restored in the face of serious developments in our region. But in this way, our foreign trade towards the Gulf countries can be restored to its former level. Turkey's outside interests can only be provided with effective diplomatic relations. Dear MPs, Turkey's demand for EU membership has been closely monitored by Arab masses seeking freedom and democracy recently, thus making reforms in political and economic areas. Many organizations, such as Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, ISIS, and Boko Haram, who are now receiving religious references as a fundamental philosophy of terrorism, have become more powerful than we had anticipated in all the countries of North Africa and the Middle East, from western Africa to Afghanistan. If we do not correctly identify the problems and take collective measures against them with our allies, not only will our neighbours and from this move be influenced by Europe and other Western countries, but Turkey with its nature will also be under the influence of a very important threat of terrorism. It is a secret known to everyone in Turkey that the Selefi-organisations are both involved in human collection activities and creating cells. In the coming period, it won't be difficult for Turkey to target both Turkey and the West as much as if its interests would be damaged if Turkey took effective intelligence and security measures. Under the circumstances, we believe we should lead the Islamic countries. Since Islam and terrorism can't go through the same sentence, Islam is a religion of peace. The moderate Islam, supported by the United States and Europe in its time, was replaced by Maatteessff, radical Islam and terror. Now is the time for our country to set an example for those who want to get rid of this ancient understanding. So under a secular system that respects faith and identities, we must preserve a Turkey that has changed its course to modern civilization, with a strict understanding of human rights and all freedoms that will cure the woes of small incomes. This is how we can put Turkey on such a course to present an example that they miss to our brothers and sisters in the Islamic world. If we want to ensure that our own people live in safety, which is the primary duty of every modern country -- then we should all work together, especially in the Middle East, trying to create conditions that will allow people to live as human beings, but also in the strictest form of the fight against terrorism. Showing that Islam is a religion of peace means not cooperating with groups that view armed terrorism as an existential philosophy, not giving them subcontractorial duties, as in Syria. When we look at the Middle East, it should be our first priority for Turkey to return to an application of foreign policy that stands equal distance from all religions and sects, thus contributing to regional stability. Support for foreign fighters results in more conflict, suffering, and the removal of millions in Syria and Iraq. Therefore, Turkey must be prevented from becoming a transit route for foreign warriors. We need to make sure that both the Arabs and the Kurds live happily under our protection, just as the Turkmen do across our border. We need to adjust our foreign policy for the well-being of the people, stand behind these policies, not have our own relatives hit ISIS or other terrorist organizations; let them live together with respect for each other. No one can deny that Turkey is an important, powerful and great country. If Turkey helps our neighbours establish democratic order just beyond our borders, it will also contribute seriously to regional stability. Approaches such as the security corridor or the buffer zone are meaningless without seeing the final political solution in Syria. As a matter of fact, Turkey does not have the consent of a United Nations Security Council decision authorizing the security corridor or the buffer zone or of Syria to create such a region on its own territory. It is also impossible to suggest that the sole purpose of creating such regions is to repel an attack. Turkey's building a security corridor on Syrian soil means violating international law, and Turkey will make it an occupying force. No one should draw Turkey into action as an adventure. Turkey, on the other hand, should give international initiatives to stop the massacre of people, providing full support to the international coalition, except for sending land troops to Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS. Regional forces such as Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia must limit their involvement in Iraq and Syria with aid to the well-being of all peoples, regardless of religion. In this framework, I underlined once again from this grand bench that we are not a fan of being pushed into any unpredictable, unpredictable, strategy-free adventure. Precious MPs are currently in Turkey, where 2.5 million Syrians live. Turkish people look after a population as large as Turkey's 5th largest city. This human drama is a great burden to our country, but it is our humanity's duty to look at the people that we have accepted into our homeland until a final solution comes true in Syria, and there are conditions for return. However, instead of putting them on the streets, it is also important to bring on a human policy as soon as possible. We see no more solidarity with Syrian refugees than our allies. That is because of the militants among the refugees, who come in and out of our borders with great ease. Security at the borders of Syria and Iraq now poses the biggest threat to Turkey. With refugees, Turkey must take maximum measures on border security, knowing that terrorists are also on the run. Turkey must comfort our people and our allies with strict border security measures. Dear lawmakers, in light of developments in Greece, our neighbor in the West, we see a new generation of countries of the European Union, who are having difficulty implementing strict financial policies, which continue to remain in the eurozone. In this framework, we need to seriously assess and assess where we should be in the Union, considering the features of our country as we watch developments in Europe. In any case, Turkey must, in all sincerity, return to its policy to prioritize European Union membership efforts. If Turkey is an exemplary democracy to contribute to the security and stability of the region, it must fully harmonise its freedoms and justice system with the European Union. Because the peace of the European Union against war is a very important project of those who advocate prosperity against poverty. Today, there is a great benefit to recall the European Union's mission and its importance in an environment where hatred, violence, and war are once again at the door of the European community, including Turkey. Again, as we look at it today, a large part of our society is very concerned about the progress of our country. We, the Republican People's Party, see Turkey's membership in the European Union as an indispensable goal for our democracy, our economy and our society and a anchor for democracy. Membership in the European Union is the goal of achieving economic, political, social, cultural and human freedoms and development. This target is too important to sacrifice to domestic policy polemics. 77 million of our citizens deserve a better and more modern life. The European Union continues its vanguard positions on principles, technological innovation, the capacity to create new institutions and create new international partnerships. Turkey should be part of a family that values human rights, democracy, education, technology, women, art. The European Union prioritizes and prioritizes neighbouring, migration and energy policies towards nearby regions. Turkey's involvement in a new enlargement process will also depend on its contribution to policies in these areas, depending on it internalise and represent the values of the European Union in its immediate environment. We believe that in order for peace and security to be established in Turkey's region and to be a model country, our country must turn its compass back into a modern civilization. In this sense, all necessary steps to complete the unfinished accession process with the European Union must be taken immediately. Until full membership in the European Union, we must hold effective negotiations for the welfare of our people in the areas of visas, agricultural support and regional development. On the other hand, we need to get the new chapters open. Our country's progress in the European Union's accession process will also contribute to our country's rightful place in the talks on transatlantic trade and investment. Through the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Convention, the respectable position and soft power we will obtain should be used to re-establish stability in our region within the framework of universal democratic principles. This will allow for a re-opening of the interests of the region's people. My dear friends, the priority in foreign policy is the safety, peace and prosperity of our citizens. Geography is as dangerous as opportunity. Governments are weakening, tribal and sectarian conflicts are rising, crime and terror organizations are turning countries into bloodshed. As we consider the future of our country, we must observe these dangers closely and ensure the safety of our citizens. Our country should be an actor who puts the lives of its citizens at risk, not by government policies, but wherever it is in the world, it trusts its citizens. Protecting the legitimate rights of our entrepreneurs and increasing investment opportunities should be a priority for our foreign policy objectives. Turkey's differences and multiculturalism are the most important foreign policy forces. Pre-AKP governments have tried to highlight Turkey's multidimensional identity in foreign policy. Turkey can be linked to another geography with every culture it contains. Turkey, its experience of democracy, its relations with the West, its beliefs and values, are unique in its secularity. Turkey has cultural properties of different regions. Thus, countries around us with different cultures feel close to Turkey. Turkey must become a focus of stability, with respect to all religious and religious identities, with its secular structure, and its culture and religious traditions will shed light on all countries in the region. We must move on to a serious, consistent and stable path, as an internationally respected country in peace and cooperation with our neighbours, by acting on the principle of Ataturk. Mr. President, with these thoughts, the Republican People's Party has announced that our group will vote favourably for the dissertation, and that the Turkish Armed Forces in Lebanon, serving with the Interim Peace Corps, wish all of you success in their efforts in the sake of peace as they continue their duties.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0011par0172	Your Grace, thank you. Emrullah Business, Ankara MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Business, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0012par0176	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I wish the 25th Legislature to be good for our country and our nation and to congratulate our Speaker on his new mission. On this occasion, I wish the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to have a successful time. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group for the approval of the Supreme Assembly to extend Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Temporary Task Force for Lebanon for another year. After the 2006 Israeli-Lubnan war, the security and stability of the Lebanon-Israel border is under way as a result of the successful duties of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) which was created in Lebanon for the establishment and the maintenance of peace. The mandate of UNIFIL, established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council, was temporarily set for a year, and was envisioned for an extension every year if necessary. UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended eight times so far. Honourable lawmakers have decided to contribute force to UNIFIL, following resolution 1701, as it refers to regional peace and stability in order to end the Israeli-Lubnan war, which risks spreading to a large region. In accordance with this will, the Turkish Armed Forces' participation in UNIFIL (UNIFIL) was ratified by the 880th Amendment, which was adopted by our great Parliament on September 5, 2006. Following this decision, Turkish Armed Forces were deployed in the region from October 2006 to begin their duties. The mandates of our military elements participating in UNIFIL have been extended in parallel with UNIFIL's mandate. In this regard, the mandate has been extended until September 5, 2015, in accordance with the decision made by our great Parliament last year. This time, the UN Security Council envisions an extension of UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate by the end of August 2015. In this framework, our government, taking into account the working schedule of our great Parliament, has asked for permission from our great Parliament for time, according to Article 92 of our Constitution, which ensures that our country's contribution could be extended in co-direction with UNIFIL. Congressmans, as we all know, one of our country's primary foreign policy targets is the establishment of peace and stability in our immediate geography. All developments involving regional peace, security and stability have undoubtedly sparked significant reflections on our foreign policy. In this minival, recent developments in our region have once again revealed that our country's stability and well-being cannot be considered separate from the region's countries. It is unthinkable for us to be indifferent to regional developments, which naturally concern our national interests and interests. With that understanding, our country's foreign policy aims to form a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around it. Precious lawmakers have become more and more important in this delicate process of maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon, in which the regime of Esed is passing through our region, in which the blood violence and pressure policies against innocent people, women and women, without discrimination have become increasingly important in a growing environment of threat to regional stability. In essence, developments in Lebanon follow a direct course through the oasis of the Syrian conflict's threat to regional peace and security. During the Syrian conflict, the increase in periodic tensions and actions aimed at social peace among ethnic and religious groups in Lebanon remains a source of concern. In Syria, the regime has moved to take dangerous steps that would harm Lebanon with the help of political and military elements close to it in Lebanon. Under the influence of regional developments, Hezbollah's increasing support for the Syrian regime and the fact that the Syrian civil war was accompanied by the regime in Syria, and Lebanon's involvement in the developments in Syria. Hezbollah's presence poses a serious threat to the security and stability of both Lebanon and our region. At such a time, the protection of social harmony in Lebanon has become more important than ever. In this regard, Turkey supports Lebanon's policy to keep itself as far away from the Syrian crisis as possible. In addition, the intense refugee pressure of millions of Syrians who had been forced to flee from the conflict environment and were sheltered in neighbouring countries has also brought serious social trials to Lebanon. Today, Lebanon is home to nearly a third of its population of Syrian refugees, so Lebanon feels the impact and reflections of the ongoing conflict in Syria. In this context, the majority of Sunni Syrian and Palestinian refugees who seek refuge in Lebanon are concerned about destabilising the country's delicate sect. The Syrian refugee issue, which is expected to reach 1.8 million by the end of this year, stands out as one of the most fundamental problems of instability facing Lebanon, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. On the other hand, the Shii-Sunni tension, which occurred in the regional plan at a time when the DEAS terrorist organisation was increasingly in Iraq and Syria, would have negative repercussions for the peace, peace and stability of Lebanon, which is based on far more sensitive balances than other countries in the region. Without these effects to be kept to a minimum, a sectary-based internal conflict in the country could be inflicted, especially in neighbouring countries, creating serious risks and threats to peace and stability at regional and global levels, which could not be cured. Congressmans, at this point the Syrian-based security threat and the risk of regional conflict, of course, are also important tasks for the Lebanese army. It is imperative that the Lebanese army, which has passed a successful test for control of tensions within both the country and against regional threats, is supported by major trials with regional developments. In this framework, it is important to actively contribute to our bilateral co-operation with Lebanon, as well as to efforts on the international platform to provide support for the Lebanese army. In addition to the United Nations Secretary General's initiative and the participation of members of the United Nations Security Council, the International Support Group for Lebanon will be formed and will be part of the Support Group in the coming period, especially with its concrete contribution to the Lebanese Armed Forces, which is training co-operation under UNIFIL. In addition to deep historical ties with Lebanon and developing bilateral relations in all areas, our country has been closely monitoring developments in Lebanon. The present conjunctural is more important than ever to maintain peace and quiet in Lebanon. In this framework, we believe that the immediate election of the new president, who has not been elected in Lebanon for more than a year, through internal reconciliation and dialogue, will contribute to the stability Lebanon needs. Members of parliament, the concrete contribution we have made to ensure peace and stability in this country under the importance of the stability and prosperity of Lebanon has a positive effect on every aspect of our bilateral relations. The superior performance of our troops serving at UNIFIL is supported and appreciated by the people of Lebanon as well as by other participating countries. As a matter of fact, many important projects carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces have been in the memory of the Lebanese people as part of the missions carried out by UNIFIL since 2006, when we contributed to UNIFIL's force. These include providing electricity for village schools, playing fields for village schools, construction of health clinics and water depots to villages, construction of roads. It is known that our current contribution to UNIFIL is determined to be limited to naval power. In this scope, as of 1 October 2014, our country's Navy conducts control operations at sea with its elements scheduled for 1 frigate, 4 assault boats, 4 corvets and 1 Tuzla-class police station ship. In this way, Turkey will have taken an important role in effectively implementing the peacekeeping operation with its contribution to UNI FI FIL. Our country's contributions again prove that Turkey is an active actor on both a regional and global scale within the United Nations system. Respected lawmakers, we do not expect those who have set up foreign policy to criticize the EC PARTY governments to see and understand Turkey's contribution to the peace of the region. The unfair criticism of the zero problem policy can only be explained by the lack of reason with the neighbors we have started as a basis for understanding. In accordance with the principled policies followed by the EC PARTY governments, Turkey is not on the same side as cruel dictators who brutally massacred its people. Turkey was based on the hope of the Somali oppressed, left to starve to death during the AK PARTI administrations, a friend who preached the persecution of Israel who killed innocent Palestinian children playing on the beach, an enemy to Syrian brothers who fled from the cruel Syrian regime, especially East Turkistan and Arakan, who were subjected to persecution in any part of the world. Let no one expect that the understanding of the AK PARTY, which puts man at the center of its policies and acts on its principles, is without problems with the oppressors. With these policies implemented, Turkey has gained the appreciation of all friendly enemies and has become a zero-problem country with both the peoples of the region and the peoples of the world. Our policy, which no one has ever understood, is based on friendship and brotherhood with the people, regardless of any belonging. Members of parliament also serve as perpetuating our participation in the UN peacekeeping force, which is the only UN peacekeeping operation that we contribute to, as well as increasing our appearance within the scope of efforts to preserve international peace, through comprehensive civilian military cooperation activities, through the perpetuation of our presence in every part of the Lebanese community. Without a doubt, this mission by the Turkish Armed Forces also contributes substantially to the continuation of our policies for the preservation of peace and stability in our region. Our government, acting with this understanding, maintains that it is appropriate to continue to contribute force to the UN Interim Task Force UNIFIL, which is in favor of international legitimacy and reflects the common will of the international community, to the United Nations Security Council's Decision 1701. In light of the issues I have recorded above, the risks and threats to regional peace and stability posed by the DEAS threat, especially the security weaknesses caused by the conflicts in Syria, are important to stress that we are in solidarity with the Lebanon and its people in the current environment, with the increasing pressure of the refugee issue on the region's countries and the serious signs of a regional-scale conflict. In this context, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend the mandate of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) for another year after the UNIFIL Naval Task Force has been established by the government, the provisions of Turkish Armed Forces will be decided by the government in accordance with Article 1701 and the Supreme Assembly of the United Nations Security Council of Turkey's Supreme Assembly Resolution 880, and I salute you all on behalf of the AKPART Group.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0013par0195	Mr. Business, thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, Ankara MP. Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0014par0199	Mr. President, dear friends, we hope that the 25th Legislature will provide a positive contribution to the development of peace and democratic politics throughout our country and the peoples of the region. The newly elected Mr. President and the President's Council will be elected, with such feelings, we wish our success on behalf of our group. Now, the heart would want to be able to do 5 percent of what countries that are more limited than us, much less limited in military power, can do in this Parliament. What would that lead to, if it was a UN decision? The country's foreign policy, especially in Parliament's view of such complex and chaotic processes, would have led to the broadest agreements and partnerships that could have developed in Parliament. What happened here? We'd expect from Mr. Secretary of Defense here: I'll tell you what's left of his speech, Mr. Secretary of State, for about 13 minutes, he's been taking his fuel from Mersin, his commanders are Brazilian, and a lot of that kind of useless, tattery, statistical information. That's not what we need. You're bringing the 8th. You're the Ministry with a huge budget. A sailor also sits there, and in the words of a sailor, there is no wind, no blessing on a ship that doesn't know which port to go to. We sent troops there in eight years, but the United Nations was involved, and the results of this intervention for the people of Lebanon were economic, social, war, civil war dimensions, and the size of freedoms. Well, we gave it to him, and every year -- this is the 8th -- we've run the House like a secretariat of a legislature until this period. When it came to a thesis, we mocked the international dimension of the issue, the extent of the issue, or the extent of the war, without speaking at all, as if it were a national union, or a national issue, by everyone who came up here with his spirit. In this Ministry, you told us, Mr. Parliamentaries, that one day, you did this task and the authorization, and we did something like this there. This has helped us internationally, and that's what's wrong with it. It's not the only accounting we've been able to come up with about the consequences. It's not acceptable, it's not rational, it's not helpful. Now, the wrong thing about all the speakers in particular is that it's the only common contribution we have to the United Nations, no way! So it seemed like a military capital... that a representative of American imperialism once sums it up very well: you have one export property. Or your most valuable export property. What do you say, brother, we're not export property. I don't remember the only way out. How can you call us export property, brother, when you wish to fight with your own citizen, from the army, which is very popular to point a gun at the elected parliament's parliament? So, is this an important part of foreign policy, or is our activity going to increase with this? For example, instead of reading the foreign affairs or national defense texts we've been given on this occasion, I wish we could consult a little more. In a geography like this, you can only have power when you can offer your neighbors a democratic proposal. So, how do you propose this democratic proposal? It is not written in a letter, nor is it sent with three or four frigates; neither is it when the ancient owners of that land have taken over. Well, with what? With your own practice. That's what a democratic proposal is like. Didn't all the speakers who came up here stress ethnic and religious differences in the region? Isn't this the land we're in, the land part? So, what is the democratic practice that you will provide within yourself? To live in peace. So what is it? To make sure that all your people are embodyed by their cultural identity, their beliefs, their social thinking. If you provide this practice, you will offer an offer to the region, to all those in power in the region, and to the oppressed. If the Council of Ministers gets a little thirsty... we get it, you're self-sufficient, but show some respect.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0015par0205	Mülga, mulga!
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0014par0206	Now, here we are, and we are far from that practice. Mr. Foreign Affairs is in the back, chatting with another foreign minister of ours. Well, that's what this Congress is all about. Friend, you're sending half this army to the Syrian border. Not Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State -- this thirteen minutes -- but what can we do about it in something that may lead the region to a war? We're a political movement with a lot of wrongful actions. We've changed our own laws 112 times. Could we be doing something wrong here, too? A consultation is a circumcision. Let's discuss this. They didn't say.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0016par0209	We're discussing it now.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0014par0210	We're not discussing, you're doing a monologue, Mr. Ahmet Aydın; you're bringing it in, everyone reads the Ministry texts. Here, just a moment ago, our Minister, our former Minister Emrullah Bey, counted Somalia. When you say something like that, it doesn't feel real. When you helped El Shebab, and you are a righteous parliamentarian, you did not give a single grain of wheat to the structure that controls 80 percent of the people, and to the poorest people under its control. I also told Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, that he was taking care of relatives. You went, and you gave him to the government that the international regime was acquainted with, and he, on condition that the flour, the wheat, and the rest of them, fall down, and I will give you bread. You can't cover up this reality with the PR-grant tabloid elements you're taking there. That's why, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we don't consult. You guys are dating. People listen to what we say anyway, no doubt. Well, that's the usual dissertation. We always bring it, we can afford it, we can pass it on... It's not like that. Now you're looking at a Parliament that you can't spend on your own and that you don't work on the government's secretariat, which may contribute to the development of democratic processes in this country. The market has passed, and Niğde is not on the horizon; if I were you, I would take this assembly seriously and make serious notifications. Why? I'm not really saying with a twist, all of you, your children, our children, our common future, with a simple move here... Mr. Davutoglu, the architect of your foreign policy as a party -- which I don't think your group has read -- had two or three of the concepts that Mr. Davutoglu, who wrote broad books about it, one of them -- is proactive, one of them is the invisible part of the strictest mountain. I read that book with a scientific curiosity, trying to understand very deep depth. Now, we're calling you the "maestro," brother, you've fallen into the form of a disorientated, unorientated Darbubator in a vast symphony, where you're going, the numbness, wherever you're going, the cacophony. Now, it started with zero problems -- so I'm not talking about it at all -- two pictures: We really had minimal relations with our neighbors, and we don't have a neighbor today that we're not native to. Mr. Nabi Avcı once made this analogy for the opposition, when we were discussing that fascist domestic security law, he said: "Yahu, how we aligned people so unlike each other. You've made even those of all our neighbors who are fighting each other fight with us. It's proactive, maestro, the invisible part of the iceberg... and I've forgotten the most important part, forgive me, and I don't want to be unfair to Mr. Davutoglu. No matter what anyone says, there have been thousands of jobs facing the glory, honor, dignity, presence, unity, undistribution; a standard sentence from the Prime Minister: What do you do? I'll break the saddlebag like Nasreddin Hodja. So we've lost credibility. Why all this? It's said that we -- in ourselves -- when we're giving suggestion -- when we're giving suggestion, agree with each other, because we're following a policy that fuels hostility and polarization within ourselves. Attention all members, do we still have a transparent foreign policy program for him? I'm asking you as a country, as one of 550 deputies in this country, I'm wondering, what are we going to be, what aren't we going to be? Who are our allies? I don't believe it, but who are our enemies and who are our opponents? There's no such thing. Behind a milk, a slipperyness of the current gold trade, the current covered relationships, the current oil needs, passes through invertebrate. Now, the most competent mouths in this country are building this soldier, all of our sons, all of our brothers and sisters to the border of Rojava, and they say, "This is our red line." Oh, my God! Before that, you said that the red line was for the Kurdish region in Iraq. You said that, and then you were almost dirty, and the account of each other is over. Now, when you index business like this, bad pragmatism, there's nothing serious about it, and there's nothing serious about what you're bringing in. There's a concept that's uncalled for. It turns out that neither the Secretary of State nor the Secretary of State will be responsible for making a statement about this attack in Rojava. Friends, it's not a demographic migration or manipulation; it's the heroic epic of the 21st century, the epic of the 21st century, written by young women, men, Kurds, Arabs, Turks and children from all the peoples of the world against a barbarian army; it's the myth of the 21st century; it's the epic of the 21st century. Two: There is a political structure there that offers democratic offers to all this chaos by rejecting the understanding of the nation's state, and its value is unknown. People who are defending their lives against all the abuses, the rapes, the rapes, the rapes, and the land of the people, who demand what we call a democratic proposal, the solution process in Turkey. Not much, but in the concept of Arab nationalism developed by Nasser and Assad (father) -- there are some very valuable new deputies inside you, if you ask them -- what is the Arab Belt, when Gire Spi has become Arab land, I'm telling you -- we've got some very valuable new friends of yours -- I'm telling you. In the Arab Belt, they put the Arabs between Kurd and Kurd, by force, and the Kurds came out of the Köroğlus. They took the mines off the Turkish border, they laid them on the Arab Belt, they tried to get that Arab Belt back. Ask them there about the lettering, the identification, and they'll tell you. That's not how it works with departmental bulletins. Let's all take a little bit of that government language, that cold, decriminalizing, over-looking state language, all of us. Every step we take, every step we take, we've got a caliber of issues that can lead to a fork in the road that we can either claim or destroy. You can't hear it from anyone, you can't see it on the ministry bulletins that you're handed to you. That Arab belt will start with the Arab belt, no matter who calls it the demographic migration. Now, there's a PYD understanding, which is based on all of these things, where both the Arab, the Turkmen, the Suryani, the Ezidi, the Kurdish, and the security of life modeling -- look at the phenomenon that we have, saying there's no difference between PYD and ISIS. So, Parliament, if you don't accept that you've fallen from this government and say, "Let's get you back to an election with your one-party power as soon as possible, this Parliament will function like this." We will sit with his rightist, leftist, nationalist, Kurdish, Suryani, Armenian, and Ezidi, and show that we can talk about our common future without insulting each other, that we can try to convince each other, not that this body can work like a secretary, but like the highest consultation in this country. It's up to everyone to maintain that level. It's up to everyone to take the words that can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can't, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, What's going to happen to everyone now is to put aside the official state's mouths and take it down to the human phenomenon, the human phenomenon, and deal with it, and argue with it. You know, since the election, we've been so investigated, we've been ignored. With great self-confidence and great democratic patience, we expect everyone who does this to come to their senses. It's really our mutual future we're worried about. I also say that we will principlely oppose all these military discharges and vote no. I salute the Court and all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0017par0225	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0018par0226	Mr. President, the speaker has been picking on you. The government's expression about foreign policy is a taunt, not a criticism. I demand word in that frame.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0019par0227	You're not a government official. You're not a government.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0020par0228	You're not the government.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0021par0229	Mr. President, the government will answer him.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0022par0230	It's the government of the AK PARTY Group, sir.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0023par0231	Mr. President, thank you. For the people, Mehmet Sugar. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0024par0234	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Turkey's proposal to extend its contribution to the UN Interim Task Force in Lebanon for another year. On this occasion, I salute you all. By the way, I wish the Minister my best. This action, which began in 2006, aims to deter banned weapons and materials from entering and entering the ports of Lebanon. Of course, it's impossible to look at such a purpose negatively, critically. However, there are two important points to be made here, valued lawmakers. First of all: Lebanon has a decision to deter its entry into arms and ammunition, and there is no problem here, but why is such a decision not implemented for Syria? For the past four years, we've been talking about it all the time, why don't we stop the entry of weapons to Syria, prevent it from entering Lebanon? Yes, we had to prevent him from entering Lebanon, but we also had to prevent him from entering Syria. Turkey has become the route of arms shipments to organisations in Syria; not only in the world does it know, but not in our power.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0025par0236	He's doing it.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0024par0237	These include weapons from other countries, people who are leaving. There are weapons sent in the period of power, which are recorded and brought to the attention by all the press members every day. In early 2011 -- look, that was the first time -- a truck with weapons and ammunition was caught at the Pioneer Border Gate. During that period, the last period, the 24th term, was the first time we became MPs. After that, on January 12, 2012, five trucks were captured, used to make chemicals, weapons, and ammunition used to make bombs. I made a motion to question it, and I said, "What are these trucks? Where are they coming from? Who is sending them to Syria? What is the origin of these weapons, and who is organizing them? At the time, I received an answer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs signed by İdris Naim Şahin. The answer is exactly this: "It is decided that the process of the destruction of explosives and chemical substances between the Chief of Staff and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, based on the basis of the law on the explosive materials and suspicious objects seen on the surface of the country, should be carried out in the joint direction of the General Staff's presidency. My question is, where are these weapons coming from, where are they going, and how are they going unsupervised in Turkey?" But the answer was very interesting, valuable MPs. They claimed to have passed through the Gürbulak Border Gate, and these trucks that were caught entering Syria from the Pioneer Border Gate of the Church passed through about 10 provinces without problems, my friends. No control, no pause, no search, no intel. I've made several motions for questions about these. My questions about where these trucks came from, what the origin of the weapons they were carrying, whether they went to the rebels in Syria, were deliberately left unanswered. With criminal psychology caught red-handed, the AKP chose to shut up. There are those who are caught, and there are those who can't be caught, and there are those that we're not aware of because they can't be caught, and these are hundreds of valuable friends. The issue of weapons and ammunition sent to Syria by the power is now public knowledge of the MIT trucks. At first, the government said that these MIT trucks had food in them, that there were no weapons, which they declared to all Turkey and the world. They said we were helping the Turks. We talked to the Turkmen, and we asked them, "What have you received from Turkey so far?" Their answer was: "We did not receive any help. Then the footage of the weapons inside those trucks came out, which means the AKP's power to all Turkish people -- I'm so sorry, but -- he lied. You tricked us. Has the government, which is willing to bring weapons from other countries into Syria and direct weapons, calculated how many Muslims are responsible for the bloodshed in Syria? If a Lebanese-like action plan had been created, which could have been prevented from entering here, if the security measures the soldier took at the border today had prevented crossing across the border, maybe there wouldn't have been this war today, Muslim blood would not have been flowing, women would not have been husbandless, children would not have been without father, but unfortunately, there is a very serious plague on Turkey's part. Would the civil war in Syria take so long, dear friends, if we took anti-weapons, or deterrent measures to enter Syria? Dear friends, the other thing we need to talk about here is ISIS. Everyone knows that the ISIS militants, who have expanded their territory in Iraq and Syria since last year, have set their eyes on Lebanon. Intelligence units in Beirut also admit that ISIS is trying to be effective in Lebanon. The risk of our soldiers who will serve in Lebanon for another year will increase because of ISIS. Is that a risk taken into consideration? What kind of precautions have been taken? We expect an explanation on these matters. Dear friends, because of ISIS, the safety of our citizens, especially in cities on the Syrian border, is also at grave risk. There are ISIS militants on one side of the border, on the other side of the world who are sympathetic to the terrorist organization that has come from all over the world to join ISIS. The people here are forced to live with them. These can be easily avoided, and the public can be saved from the anxiety they experience. Look, it's not too hard to do this. European passports of Sudan are the head of those who use Turkey as a route to join ISIS. They can be traced after arriving at Istanbul or Ankara airports, which can be prevented from going to border cities. The National Intelligence Agency doesn't know what I know? Students of the Harvard Medical Sciences and Technology University are again entering Syria via Turkey in groups and joining ISIS. In March, a group of 11 people, three mothers and nine children in June, recently a group of 18 or 12, used Turkey as a route to join ISIS again. Then their families come in, struggling to save their children from the terror organization. What's the point of all this, fellas? Why do we make the locals nervous, why don't we look forward to young people joining a terrorist organization, and why do we allow these young people's families to live in pain, anxiety, and uncertainty? If the students of the Harvard Medical Sciences and Technology University were followed after they arrived in Turkey, they would have been prevented from disappearing in the Syrian swamp, but we didn't do that. How many from Turkey did they attend? Dear friends, nearly 10,000 young people from Turkey have joined. We don't know how many died. In Gaziantep alone, the relatives of the family in the area of Gaziantep called to tell us that their children had lost their lives there. From different provinces of Turkey, they asked us for help so that they could get their children to die in Syria, at least to get their body back. This is a disaster. Our kids are dying out there, but nobody's doing anything. The father of the alleged person who planted the bomb at HDP's Diyarbakır rally says: "My child has no passport, he has nothing. I said it was in ISIS. I went, I tried, I tried, I got caught, but there was no action done. I asked Mr. Prime Minister to tell me that I would be interested, but I didn't get any results. Dear friends, there is one more risk now. Today, those who join ISIS from different countries of the world will withdraw and leave for their own country tomorrow. Young people from Turkey will also return to their country. So each country will have an ISIS, each country will have a terrorist organization, and we have to be prepared for that, which is a very important problem. Right now, as soon as the soldier's in there, as soon as he does, it's not something I take very seriously. There's no need for him to intervene, protect the border, prevent terrorists from passing through here, keep weapons, ammunition from passing through. This is exactly how we can save Turkey from terrorism and the death of people in Syria. Dear friends, Turkey has not done its duty. We've said it a dozen times, but it's caused brother's blood to bleed out of Muslim blood. If we keep this border, if we take precautions, if we increase the measures on this border, if the gun doesn't cross, there won't be any deaths. For him, Turkey will receive a greater task than in Lebanon. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0026par0248	Dear Sugar, thank you. Second speaker on behalf of individuals, Shirin Ünal, İstanbul MP. Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0027par0252	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself about the government statement, which has been submitted to the approval of our Supreme Assembly to extend Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Temporary Task Force UNIFIL for another year. I salute the High Council. After the 2006 Israeli-Lubnan war, the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) was formed in Lebanon for the purpose of the establishment and maintenance of peace. The security and stability of the Lebanese-Israeli border remains as a result of UNIFIL's successful missions, which our country has contributed to. The mandate of UNIFIL, established on August 11, 2006 by the United Nations Security Council, was temporarily set as a year. In the same decision, it is also expected to be extended every year if the time is deemed necessary. UNIFIL's mandate has been extended eight times so far. This time, UNIFIL's mandate will be extended by the end of August 2015 by another year by the United Nations Security Council. Mr. President, in our recent geography, the facility for peace and stability is one of our primary foreign policy targets. All developments involving regional peace, stability and security can undoubtedly have significant repercussions for our foreign policy. Recent developments in our region have once again shown that our country's stability and security cannot be considered separate from the countries of the region. With that dignity, it is unthinkable for us to remain indifferent to regional developments that concern our national interests and interests closely. With that understanding, our government's foreign policy aims to create a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around our country. The key importance for the stability of the entire region in Lebanon's peace and stability has undoubtedly become more important in an environment where the regime has increased the threat of bloody violence and pressure policies against the public in Syria. The increase in the periodic tensions and actions aimed at social peace among ethnic and religious groups in Lebanon continues to be a source of concern under the influence of regional developments. Hezbollah's growing support for the Syrian regime and the fact that it is in addition to the regime in Syria is also involved in developments in Syria. In addition, the refugee pressure of millions of Syrians who have been forced to flee from the conflict environment and have been sheltered in neighbouring countries leaves Lebanon with serious trials. Tensions from time to time among different groups of sects in the country have been avoided, as a result of the common sense of the government of Lebanon, the people of Lebanon, and the army. The social resistance that the people of Lebanon have and the long-standing culture of living together has allowed the country's instability to be as minimal as possible. We wish that the maturity and solidarity of the people of Lebanon during difficult times set an example for other communities in the region. However, the tests that the Lebanese community has successfully resisted so far have gradually taken on new dimensions under the influence of regional dynamics. At the same time, the Shii-Sunni tension, which the DAEŞ has recently made in Iraq in the regional plan, could have negative effects on peace, peace and stability in Lebanon, which is based on more sensitive sociopolitical balances than in other countries in the region. If these effects cannot be kept to a minimum, a sectal-based internal conflict in the country will pose a serious risk and threat to peace and stability at regional and global levels, especially in neighbouring countries. Thus, this statement is of serious importance. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out an effective implementation of its peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made significant contributions both within the United Nations system and through regional and global civil-military co-operation activities, as well as through comprehensive civil-military co-operation activities, to increasing its visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, and to maintaining its policy for maintaining peace and stability. In light of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, it would be considered appropriate for the Turkish Armed Forces to participate in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year from September 5, 2015, if the UN Interim Task Force decides to extend UNIFIL's term. As I put an end to my words, the government declares that I am positive about continuing our military contribution to UNIFIL, and I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0028par0267	Mr. Ünal, thank you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0029par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0028par0269	Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Prime Minister's thesis. Now I'm going to put the thesis to your votes.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0029par0271	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0028par0272	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0029par0273	Look, it's against the Constitution, it's against the 6th and 7th amendments of the Constitution. This needs to be taken back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0028par0274	The Prime Minister's thesis has been approved. Good luck with that. Mr. Baluken, you have a request for a statement. Please come in.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0030par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the Civil Code, I have asked as Deputy Group Chairman of the People's Democratic Party, but I've been waiting for an hour and a half for word. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we are in democratic tolerance because it is your first session. In the event that the deputy political party heads inform the General Assembly of an emergency situation, the Council of Ministers has the right to ask for a comment according to the relevant Article of the Interior Charter, and the Presidential Court must also appreciate it. Yesterday, you know, in the village of Roboski in Şırnak province, an actual, physical, armed attack was carried out on our MP, Mr. Ferhat Encu, and our people there. The perpetrators of this attack have exhibited an unprecedented example of bandits in history, saying that you are a deputy of the bandits to our friend, who has been elected by 85 per cent of the People of Şırnak. As Parliament Speaker and as Chairman of the Council, you have to state that the attacks on an MP must be reminded here and that an attitude must be demonstrated here as an attack on the will of all the people of Turkey. Unfortunately, until this hour, when there was an example of a bandit who pointed a gun at the MP yesterday, neither the government, nor the Speaker of Parliament, nor the Council of the President have made a single statement about this matter, it is attempted to prove to our society that these dire situations have come to the extent of the armed attack on lawmakers. We'd like to state that this situation is unacceptable. I would like to inform you that those responsible who have insulted the will of 6 million people who voted for the Democratic Party of Peoples must be suspended with an administrative investigation as soon as possible. Another issue: We are lawmakers who are trying to serve with millions of game representations here, and when we call the ministries on the occasion of an emergency, those ministers or ministry officials have to be on our phones when we ask for information, they have to give us that information. In particular, for the past month, none of the initiatives that we've tried to make in favor of the Ministry of Interior and Şırnak Governorate have been positively answered with the utmost sensitivity to a 2011 massacre-like search in Roboski. The Interior Minister is a Minister appointed by the principle of neutrality in the election process, an unelected minister appointed to meet the principle of neutrality. On such urgent agendas today, he lost his neutrality by not answering the phone of a political party, and his undersecretary and governors were instructed not to answer the calls of lawmakers. Therefore, as Speaker of the House, you must be involved. It is part of your duties as Speaker of Parliament as the Council of Parliament, as the People's Council, to maintain the dignity of parliament, to protect the MP's reputation, to uphold the will of the people. We invite the Home Secretary, who has lost his neutrality, to resign immediately. We remind you once again that the administrative and property managers in charge, especially the governor of Şırnak, must be suspended as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0286	Mr. Bauken, we'll look into it, that's point one. Point number two: no attack on any proxy is acceptable, and there is no excuse for that. That's the second point. Point three: we expect the MPs to respect the law more than anyone else, after I say I'll have it examined.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0032par0290	There's nothing illegal about it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0291	No, I mean, it is. Thirdly...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0032par0293	Then explain what's illegal.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0294	Look, I'm just saying general principles, so let's get this thing looked at.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0032par0295	No, is there something illegal?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0033par0296	Yeah, but why are they clapping?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0297	I don't care, I don't care! Please!
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0032par0298	Explain to me what lawmakers did illegally.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0299	Mr. Baluken, finally, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0032par0300	This attitude is a way to justify these attacks.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0301	No, no, I don't. Mr. Baluken, the last thing I think is that when all lawmakers pick up the phone, every minister has to be on his phone and informing him is a need of respect for law enforcement and national will. Therefore, our Home Secretary must be on your phone. There is no answer for every member of the minister's office, and there is no answer for every member of parliament, and there is no answer for every one of them, and there is no answer for him. So we're going to look into this, and we're going to... otherwise, there's absolutely no reason for disrespecting the congressman or assaulting him, and I want to be very clear about that. Mr. Sky, you asked for a promise. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0034par0306	Mr. President, during the time of the death of 34 of our citizens in Uludere district of Şırnak province in 2011, no one has been brought to justice, nor has there been any calming action taken to the relatives of those who lost their lives in Uludere, at least the perpetrators will be tried. On the contrary, an important effort has been made to close, forget, and darken the event from the day it passed to this day. It's natural -- 34 -- that the fact that families who lost their children in their childhood suffered a great deal of trauma, that they're still grieving is undisputed. The killing of 34 of our young people in Uludere is supposed to be a common pain in Turkey, but with efforts to cover it up, unfortunately it is intended to be abandoned and forgotten as a painting. He has not served as a judge in this matter, nor has he served as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, nor has he served as the Ministry of Interior. There's something in the middle that's trying to be closed. So it's a very important function of the state to tolerate the sensitivity, reactions of the nation's families, who have lost 34 children in a painting like this. On the contrary, understanding those families is not acceptable to prosecute, when it is the government's duty to bring the criminals to trial, when the families there are considered to be criminals. Along with that understanding, the beating of a congressman there, the being subjected to a beating, the throwing of a gas bomb on him is an incident our National Assembly must oppose in your presidency, in the first place. And we strongly condemn this incident, and we never accept this attitude towards the congressman. There is a need for peace and justice. That's why you have a duty as Speaker of Parliament. We expect you to carry out this mission on your first day of work. Also, in the frame that we met yesterday at the Council of Counsellors -- I'd like to present it to the information of our fellow citizens -- you should have done your assessment of the RTÜK (RTÜK) by this time. With the idea that the RTÜK elections, the presidential elections, will be next week, I would like you to report your decision to the political parties immediately and express our sensitivity to the non-intervention of the RTÜK elections, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0031par0309	Mr. Sky, thank you. Mr. Oktay, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0035par0311	Why don't you talk about the mothers from Diyarbakir whose children have been kidnapped? Why don't you speak for them, then, if it's human rights?
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0036par0312	Take your word, speak like that, ma'am, take your word for it, speak like that, we don't hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0035par0313	The mothers were promised that their children would be brought down from the mountain.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0037par0314	You don't talk to the vice president of the group there, teach them, friends.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0036par0315	You have a group vice president, they talk.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0038par0316	Please...
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0036par0317	It's not mutual. You'll find out.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0038par0318	Speak up, please! Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0039par0321	Mr. President, good luck to our elected MPs in the June 7th election. I wish that the work of the 25th term would lead to good deeds and that the good services of our nation would be carried out during this period. Of course, on June 7th, our nation did its duty, and on June 23rd, our MPs were sworn in. Governments in Parliamentary democracy are responsible to Parliament, Turkey to the Grand National Assembly. Therefore, under this responsibility, the former government has given its resignation but has not yet done its duty to establish the new government. Parliamentary lawmakers must immediately assume responsibility for the establishment of a government responsible for parliament as a part of parliamentary democracy. In this framework, the President must carry out his duties by the Constitution immediately. Mr. President, there is one other thing: the police university of applied sciences has been tested. You know, those who entered these schools before began this by being employed at the Police General Directorate, but unfortunately, with an interview, about 1,803 people were eliminated by two minutes of interviews. In this regard, our citizens have very important complaints, and they have stated that important injustices have been done. I've told the Chief of Police about this, and our parliamentary friends are getting victims of this, and they're saying that very subjective assessments have been made. I'd like to say that these unfair choices, subjective choices, have hurt a deep sense of justice. 370 students have been wiped out in Aksaray, in Samsun, in Hakaza, Aydın... in this regard, I urge the government to pay particular attention and review of the injustices committed on the subject of these trials and interviews. There's no one to say if there's an objective test, but it's obviously killing families to act this way with arbitrary governments. Besides, you know, even though the courts have decided to stop the execution of the appointment of school principals, it's been clearly instructed by the governors not to be appointed. It's urgent that this law-turned injustice be dealt with. The government, which is particularly temporarily in charge of Turkey, should not be doing such injustices during this period. There are certain appointments made in this framework, which are not true, which must be done by a government that has received the vote of confidence from Parliament. I'm warning the government and the practices on these matters, and I've made it my duty to give our warnings in these matters at the first meeting of Parliament that you've run. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0040par0327	Mr. Vural, thank you. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0041par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. We actually held the first meeting of the 25th-century Parliament today after the oath, in the presidency of our newly elected Speaker of Parliament. First of all, I would like to say good luck to both the Speaker of the House and to all elected MPs, and hopefully, for our country and our nation, we'll all make good decisions and solve the fundamental problems of Turkey together here. Again, of course, several times today, the expression of the trustee government has been used. Under the constitution, the government is in charge and the government is in charge. I'd also like to share my opinion that it's not right to be called a cynically self-righteous government. Again, it was said that Mr. President delayed the post. Our constitution, our Civil Code, is very clear. The government has to be formed in 45 days, especially since the formation of the Presidential Court, as well as the formation of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0042par0335	How many days has it been, how many days? It's been a month.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0043par0336	Musa Pine, shut up!
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0041par0337	The Presidential Court hasn't formed yet. As soon as the presidential council is formed, I hope this commission will be done, and that means it will be done. Now, dear friends, we speak according to the Constitution and the Civil Code. I don't think it's the right approach to taking a distant stand with the coalition and saying, on the other hand, why don't these talks begin immediately? It's a ritual, you don't listen to words. So, from the beginning of the Court... Tomorrow, as the AK PARTY Group, we will, hopefully, inform the Court and inform the Speaker of Parliament. I assume that tomorrow all groups will report, and after the Court is formed in that sense, of course, and with the assignment, within 45 days, we wish and hope that, based on Turkey's gains and the stability of this country, the continuation of major projects, the continuation of the reform movement, will be established immediately, and I would like to thank you again, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-07-08sit01spe0044par0341	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Members of parliament, it is 15 p.m. Thursday, July 9, 2015, to discuss issues that will be on our agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
