tbmm-2015-03-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, before we begin the talks, we must go to closed session session to be read according to Article 71 of the Interior Charter in the closed session of February 17, 2015. Therefore, I'd like to ask the MPs and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers. After the transcripts have been read, open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsored statement belongs to Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin (Sakin) who asked for a comment on investments in the province of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0002par0006	Mr. President, aren't you supposed to call the General Assembly's will to call off the closed session after you've said so? I mean, closed session, as a result. The closed session is only by the will of the General Assembly...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0007	Now, what we're doing today is just about reading the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0002par0008	Yes, but I mean, closed session, as a result. He says, when the cause is eliminated, the General Assembly decides by sign. In that way... because this is a closed session.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0009	No, Mr. Vural, because the subject of the closed session has been accepted as a continuation because it has to do with the completion of the process.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0002par0010	That's what it says, sir. He says when the reason for the closed session is removed, the president...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0011	Mr. Hawk, please take your seat and I'll invite you again.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0002par0012	I'm sorry, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0013	Now, Mr. Vural, once the closed session minutes are merged into Article 71: After the closed session logs are completed, a closed session will be passed and read the old report summary. In summary, the report is placed in an envelope, however, which is immediately sealed and given to the Parliament's archives by the clerks present. Closed session logs and summarys, ten years from closed session date... is a different matter. So it's about the completion of this process, just the reading of the transcripts...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0002par0015	Mr. President, a closed session has been announced and read the old report summary. So considering that it is a closed session -- you should do it directly -- the will of the General Assembly must be sought to end the closed session. In that way, I mean.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0001par0016	Yes, because it's a brief report, sir. Thank you. Another job to do, so that's our practice so far, Mr. Vural. Yes, Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute your grand delegation. Today, during the AK PARTY administrations, I'm going to try to tell you about the investments and the ongoing investments and the investments we've been planning. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with transportation first. In the east, he was tied to Ankara by double means through the Inegl road, and the Mezit Valley, a difficult valley, was offered to the service of our nation by the superior efforts of our government and the Ministry of Transport, especially here in the struggle for snow, to remain open for an entire season, during the winter season. The road to Istanbul in the north, the road to Mudanya, has been made a double road, and the road to Mudanya, a tourist destination, has been arranged with three lanes, allowing our Bursa people to reach the sea quickly and quickly. The road to Çanakkale in the west has been doubled, and the way to Izmir, where there is heavy traffic in the south again, has been made a double. In 2007, the 67km-long freeway, which was part of a very relaxing highway, was completed during our Labour Minister's group as vice president, and has served for the past eight years. Hopefully, with the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir highway in place, it will become more active and will serve to create a scholarship-based network for transport. Of course, we didn't just connect Bursa from the north, from the south and from the west to the surrounding cities and neighboring districts, but we also made new roads by expanding the Ingegöl-Newville interstate road with the A1 standard. Again, the double way we connect to New Kent in the east is to shorten the road by five kilometers and make it a comfortable road. Again, we make the road to Mecca a double route to Adapazari via Iznik, connecting it to Sakarya, and provide a comfortable journey for our countrymen and citizens out of Burma, and out of Bursah. We're still building the roller coaster. Hopefully, in the time being targeted and programmed, the fast train will kick in. The airport is back online again, Tuesday (March 10th) -- again, last week -- and again, the flights to Tripoli and Erzurum began, followed by Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Mush, Ağrı, Antalya, and our hope is that flights to Cyprus will begin. Of course, not only did we invest in transportation, but also in health care, renovated our hospitals, modernized our hospitals. We have opened up our 300-bed state hospital in Inegöl, where we have finished in Kemalpaşa, Karacabey, and Iznik, and will soon be in service. Construction continues rapidly in Orhangazi, and in Gemlik, and in Keles and Orhaneli, all the hospitals with 20 and 50 beds are in place. We didn't just offer health care to our people by building new hospitals, but by bringing in some very technological new machines that provide health care, we allowed our human to recover. At the same time, our government's project, the ambulance, the helicopters, and the planes, allowed our fellow citizens from Bursa to quickly recover from health care. We have completed the 7,500 Lotus Closed Gym, which has been in the sport for years, and we have provided a great deal of opportunities in gym sports for the house sports, for the Lord's Witnesses, and for the young people of Bursa. We've built closed sports halls, swimming pools, with the resources of our Metropolitan Municipality and our borough municipalities, and we're still doing it. Hopefully this year, we'll build a giant sports complex, a sports factory in Georgia, with over 20 million square metres of investment in the city of Yıldırım. Again, we are carrying out the stadium of the champion Burasspor. With the support of our Metropolitan Municipality and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we are capable of 44,000 people. Our goal will be to open the stadium, hopefully, in early June, among the top 10 stadiums in the world. Of course, five minutes is not enough time to count services. I especially thank our President, who served our current Prime Minister, Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, our Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, our Labour Minister Faruk Çelik, and our fellow MPs. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0004par0036	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who wants to talk about the search of the cosmic room. Mr. Ozturk... The third unscheduled statement belongs to Hakkari MP Adil Zozani, who wants to talk about the Aleppoce massacre. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, 26 years ago today in Aleppoce, in a Kurdish settlement near Süleymaniye, Kurdistan Federal District, Saddam's army poisoned the clouds against the Kurdish people and tried to darken the sun of the Kurdish people. Over 5,000 people died in this chemical massacre. Babies died in the arms of their mother's father. Twenty-six years have passed, but this wound is still bleeding. The scars of this wound have yet to be removed from the memory of the Kurdish people. Looks like they're pretty easy to erase, too. Aleppoce became the iconic city of that time because of the massacre. In fact, in two years, I'm talking about a region of the Federal District of Kurdistan -- 5.5 million people -- 184,000 people were murdered. So the massacre of Aleppocee was the climax of the massacre of 184,000 people, the great Enphal. Millions of people have migrated from their homeland. Then, when the tide turned, those who had committed this great massacre against the Kurdish people had to answer to the Iraqi people. When Saddam Hussein was to be put on death row, they wanted a Kurdish person to sign Saddam Hussein's execution. Those who ordered this massacre, Mr. Celal Talabani, who was then President of Iraq, asked Saddam Hussein to sign the death warrant, but Celal Talabani made a decision as a lesson to all mankind. I will not be executed, even if it is Saddam Hussein. He did not sign the death sentence, and he said, "If you push me too hard, I will quit the presidency, and I will not sign that death sentence." On December 30, 2006, we all know that Maliki had signed the execution order instead of Celal Talabani. Why didn't Celal Talabani sign a death sentence against Saddam Hussein, who had been in the blood of hundreds of thousands of Kurds? The cause is very clear and can be expressed in a sentence. The Kurdish people suffered a great deal in Middle Eastern geography, suffered a great deal, but never built their future on account of the reckoning with the people they lived with, which was based on confrontation and legitimization, even if it was the murderer of the Kurdish people. Celal Talabani, as an embodiment of such a thought, prevented Saddam Hussein from signing the death warrant that day, and a note fell to history. Mr. Talabani's stance that day against the execution order of Saddam Hussein is essentially a summary of the life philosophy of Kurdish people in Middle Eastern geography. Yes, we know the facts, we desire the facts to be investigated and brought to light, but instead of settling, we wish to face them and become lawful, because Kurdish people know that in Middle Eastern geography, the people have no choice but to live together, and they believe in that philosophy. Mr. Talabani's position of honor on that day was also evident. I salute you all. May heaven be the home of all our descendants who died in the Alepposic massacre. And those who attempt such massacres... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that they will eventually receive the punishment they deserve in the House of Rights.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0006par0051	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked to be searched for the cosmic room. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0007par0056	Mr. President, on December 19, 2009, an investigation was launched into the alleged assassination of Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc. As part of this investigation, search has been conducted in the cosmic room of Ankara Regional Chair of the Expeditional Study Board. By the time we arrived, everyone said something, Mr. Bulent Arinc began to caricature the cosmic room called the cosmic chamber, and my request from all the press members is that you ask Mr. Baykal. Ask Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu about this question as well, because it is these individuals who say they've always thought it was funny, that they thought it was pure. Of course, Mr. Bulent Arinc was to be assassinated in Ankara, but he was in Manisa. Two military vehicles that were said to have followed the judge were carrying potato and onion bags. The ones found in the vehicle were cooks and electricians. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the land with Ak is coming out. Dear lawmakers, at that time, we insisted that this was a really illegal search, and at the very moment that we realized that this dive was really not the right thing to do in the cosmic room, that the assassination of Bkent Arinc was a lie, that the real purpose of the assassination of Arinc was to dive into the cosmic room, and that the government was there to steal the government's secret documents. As the Prime Minister at that time said, it was really white and dark. Dear lawmakers, the search is made to obtain evidence or to apprehend the suspect according to CMK 119. However, the search at places containing the secrecy of the military or state is conducted in accordance with the 47th and 125th articles of the CMC. According to Article 125 of the CMC, the court judge, I repeat, these documents can be examined by a court judge or a delegation. Information found in these documents that can only be cleared of the charge can be recorded by the judge or the head of the court. During talks during that date's Justice Commission, the statement against the court is proposed instead of the statement against the court, but this is not acceptable. What we understand is that these events are not only in the investigations of the courts, but in the prosecution department. So, in the investigation department, the prosecutor can't demand a decision to access the documents of this state archive, he doesn't have that right, and the judge can't make that decision, and then we did. However, after the charge has been charged, after the indictment has been settled and the indictment has been approved by the court, the court may decide that these documents be reached. But there, a judge named Kadir Kayan, held on, insisted on entering the cosmic room. He did it against the law. Prosecutor Mustafa Bilgili also asked for it. Now we see that the documents and information have been stolen. This judge is responsible. This judge has abused his authority, his duty. This prosecutor is responsible. I'm calling from here to the HSYK. This must be investigated and prosecuted regarding the judge and the prosecutor and other concerns.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0008par0061	But the government has already asked for it, government.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0007par0062	At that time, on January 4, 2010, Hamdi Yaver Atan -- a good criminal lawyer -- says this judge and the prosecutor committed a crime. He says the judge can't make the call on the cosmic room, and the prosecutor can't make that request. Now that we're here, it's said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Ya, that's bullshit. E, of course, that's bullshit. There must be an investigation into these judges and prosecutors. He should also apologize to the public. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0009par0067	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0010par0071	Thank you. Mr. President, while Mr. Minister of National Education is here... there are two issues on the public agenda. First of all, there are issues about the VIP torpedo list, which are part of the Justice and Development Party's organization, which has enabled you to get a degree from two years of higher education by torpedo at Istanbul University, where your relatives have only graduated from Istanbul University for two years, but have been registered here as if they had finished a second college. Did you do anything about it as the Ministry of National Education? And yesterday, our young people, our children, obviously, they took the test, which explains only 20 percent. Would it not be more appropriate to open questions in a transparent way that students who take the test can appreciate their own situation better? I mean, why is he hiding from the young? In this regard, it also provided an opportunity for them to measure their score situation. I'd appreciate it if there was something you could contribute to your position. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0011par0075	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 27 years ago today in Iraq, there was an attempt at genocide as a black mark on history as the Aleppoce massacre. A brutal attack on Aleppoçe on 16 March 1988 was carried out by Saddam Hussein, a part of the Al-Elfal Operation against the Kurdish people in southern Kurdistan. On March 16, 1988, 8 fighter planes carrying poison gas bombs were bombed in Aleppoce; more than 5,000 of our people were killed and more than 7,000 were injured. In fact, these chemical gases were poured down not only on Kurdish people, their women, their children, but also on the conscience, on the heart of everyone who called himself a man. The slaughter of all mankind in Aleppoce (Aleppo), his breath straitened, his chest constricted, and his tears poured out. We, in the face of history, condemn the genocide of the Kurdish people again today. We offer our condolences to all Middle Eastern people and to the Kurdish people in private again today. We call it the Democratic Party of Peoples that Aleppoçe and Al-Enfal have to be known as the Kurdish genocide. This is basically the law proposals that we've drawn up, and they're waiting to be brought up on the agenda of the House. In this regard, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has once again expressed that the Middle Eastern peace and responsibility for the Middle Eastern people should be necessary; again, we wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the massacre, and our condolences to all Middle East peoples.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0013par0081	Thank you. Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0014par0083	Mr. President, thank you. I curse the massacre of Aleppocee again on behalf of my group. In this matter, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to hand over my say to our Diyarbakır MP, Friday.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0015par0086	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0016par0088	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, twenty-seven years ago, the cold breeze of death wrapped around the smell of apples and wrapped around Aleppoce. The children who came out of their beds to search for the source of that smell had no idea that they had set foot in the most brutal massacre in recent history. Because that was a day in Aleppo, when Kurds' history was rewritten. This violence took place before the eyes of the world, but as always, the world remained silent to slaughter and genocide. Sadly, a similar genocide in Aleppo is still being done in Syria. Today, those who gave Saddam a weapon to destroy the Kurds reaped the same role for Esed. Those who send Saddam (Saddam) to the gallows in order to look pleasant to the world will do the same to Esedt (Esedt). Finally, the Aleppoce celebrates its martyrs with mercy, and we read Fatih to their souls. May my Lord never make mankind suffer the like of it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0015par0090	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with the opinion of other political party groups. We curse the massacre of Aleppo as the Republican People's Party. As the Republican People's Party, we declare, we condemn, as a party in the homeland, that is firmly wrapped up in the principle of peace in the world -- who and for whatever reason it may come from -- any kind of rape, assault, violence, and intent on life. I hereby bless those who have lost their lives in Aleppo. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0018par0096	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I believe you have an explanation.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0019par0099	Mr. President, I have been promised to answer Mr. Vural's questions. It's about explaining all the questions about yesterday's exam, and you know in court right now, there's something about it in the court. The reason for this is that in the middle term, we want to make these tests available in electronics, just like in TOEFL, etc., and so on, we want to be able to do these tests in electronics with these questions. So in order to guarantee that equal - weighted questions can be asked in electronic tests at different times, we need to have a lot of problems stored in our pool. So there's... there's already a copyright on these, so we don't explain it, but the court's first decision on this is to explain them. There's a decision for the prosecution, and if the final decision is made in this direction, it will be explained whether it's done or not, but the logic behind it was that these questions would be collected and applied electronically. In addition, each individual student who takes the exam has the right to make all kinds of objections regarding his own paper and to ask and control it if necessary. It's already being done, and so far, the application is provided in individual applications. But the final decision of the court process is now expected to be made regarding the immediate explanation of all questions, and it will be decided accordingly. I also asked the NGO to do a study on the incident at Istanbul University, so I can give you more information after I get the results. So we've been notified by the press to investigate this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0020par0103	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Mr. Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament and a delegation with him, was eligible for a visit to our country with the 10/3/2015 date of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court and decision 96. The visits of the delegations to our country are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of the Turkish-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission (KPK) 76 (KPK) was held on 19 March 2015 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the decision of the Grand Assembly of Turkey on 10 March 2015 and 96. The meeting will be held at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it will be presented to the General Assembly's information on the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 7/9 of the Law. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and TBM Institution, in order to investigate the reasons for the increase in loan-making crimes and determine the structural measures necessary to prevent crime. [[İstanbul]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] 8) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Edirne]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Sinop]] 13) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 18) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] In our country, loan shark crime has increased by 792 per cent since 2005. According to annual reports of the Security Directorate's Trafficking and Anti-organised Crime Office (KOM), 76 incidents took place in 2005, 171 suspects were processed in the operation, while 602 operations took place in 2011 and 1.532 suspects were processed. In recent years, classical loan sharkery has also emerged as a P.O.S. loan shark. Also noted in the 2011 report of the Anti-Trafficking and Organised Crimes Department Office Office Office, this loan sharking method has been shown as a product sale, although there is no actual sale, and the sales fee has been paid in installments from a credit card. As a result of this transaction, between 5 per cent and 25 per cent of the amount taken from the credit card, the remaining amount is given to the credit card holder in cash. This method appeals to citizens because it is lower than credit card interest. As a matter of fact, in recent days, with e-mails, text messages, online ads, "Let's pay your credit card debt." Many loan sharks are seen to have evolved. In credit card debt, the minimum payment is up to 40 per cent, the higher interest paid in bank credit card debt has increased interest in POS loans. As a result, loan sharking has become a major business under the sale of jewelry, prepaid and so on. The problem is certainly based on the government's wrong economic policies. The increase in unemployment and consumption at the same time increases the tendency of citizens to cover their debts with debt, either underinflation or underinflation. As a matter of fact, the huge increase in the use of need loans, credit cards, and credit deposit accounts shows that the debt is paid by debt. According to the report "Turkish Credits and Panorama of Loans and Debts," consumer loans have increased by 205 per cent since 2007 to 89 billion dollars; loans used through credit deposit accounts have increased by 100 per cent to $4 billion, while credit card debt has increased by 114 per cent since 2007. On the other hand, over the years, the increase in loan shark crime will be seen in 2009 as a huge leap of 233% compared to the previous year. As it is known, due to the global economic crisis, which began to affect our country by the end of 2008, in 2009 the national income per capita has decreased by 19 per cent, the economy has narrowed by 4.7 per cent, and the number of people who failed to do credit card edema has increased by 41 per cent. It seems to be leading some of our people to the loan sharks. The banking sector closed 2009 with a profit increase of 49.6 per cent compared to the previous year; the sector made 20.1 billion net profits in 2009, while it created 4 billion 542 million of its revenues, "Credi Card Pays and Commissions." This striking picture shows a close relationship between the rise in loan shark crime and the practices of loan-giving companies. As a matter of fact, the number of credit cards in Turkey rose to 68 million today, while the number of debtors that were followed increased by 90 per cent from 2008 to 4.1 million. On these grounds, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate the reasons for the increase in loan sharking crimes and determine the structural measures that need to be taken to prevent the crime. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Earthquakes are at the beginning of natural disasters that have caused the most loss in our country. Erzincan, Marmara, Kütahya, the recent earthquakes in Van on October 23rd and just after 9 November 2011 reminded us once again of the importance of the issue. Van earthquakes have been noted in history as a negative example of how well the postquake process is managed. Shortly after the first earthquake in Van, the most basic measures were not taken, some people close to power were favoured at the expense of human beings, the reports of their permissions to withstand or be used were also reflected in the media. Two news correspondents Sebahattin Yilmaz and Cem Amir were killed in a hotel in the 2nd Van earthquake. Although the owner of the hotel's trial has begun, this trial will not eliminate the overall responsibility. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that the head of the Afet and Emergency Management (AFAD) Van is in the chain of responsibility for the process, the central managers of the Van, and even Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, in charge of the institution. Van earthquake dwellings, which have recently been opened by the Prime Minister himself, have been welcomed by our citizens. However, just after that, especially what happened in Edremit caused allegations of political use. For example: Despite the beginning of the winter chills, the heating grids in Edremit's earthquake dwellings have not been activated; the condition of our citizens, who are cold in containers and burning with stove fire to warm their tents, has been moved to a different dimension, and in these houses, no water grids have been activated outside the heating grids. Another problem with earthquake dwellings is the way the dwellings are distributed to our citizens. In Van Edremit, 88 square metres of houses were built, and on average, they were priced at $105,000. In the basement, the houses are listed at 68 thousand and 125 thousand liras for the houses on the upper floors. The amount of $30,000 was paid by AFAD, while the remaining 75,000 liras were earmarked for paying the rights owners. This payment has been extended for 18 years without paying for two years. On April 28, 2012, however, housing in Van can be assessed as part of the 4th-grade Group A structures, according to the State Department of Environment and Urbanization, according to the statement of the 2012 Building About Unit Costs, which will be used in the Bank of Architecture and Engineering Service in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation. The per square meter price of the dwelling mentioned in this notice has been set at $615.00. In other words, the average price of a 88 square metre dwelling is 54 thousand liras. Even if this number is clear and is born in terms of a gross figure, even if it is thought to be a 120 square metre building alone, the price is around 73,000 lira. In this case, the price raised to the earthquake victims is being kept very high, so it's either profited or the interest costs are already being collected from our citizens who have suffered major earthquakes. As a result of these events, claims are often expressed in our province of Van that earthquake housing has been corrupted and people have been victimised. In this context, after the Van earthquake, we pay tribute to the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsections, in order to investigate allegations that the earthquake dwellings were being sold to the public at high cost and that they were being given financial benefit to those close to power. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Niğde]] [[Antalya]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tunceli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Let's go.]] [[Tekirdağ]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In thousands of political cases in Turkey, covert testimony has become almost arbitrary, and people are being punished based solely on covert witness testimony. In this context, due to secret testimony practices, we make it necessary to investigate the issues in cases, to investigate the effects of fair trial and right of defence, to establish how secret testimony should be regulated according to universal law norms, under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Pain]] 16) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In 2008, the legal amendment entered the Turkish legal system as a covert witness. Secret testimony is an application involving serious violations and restrictions that are directly related to fair trial and right of defense. Lawsuits of those arrested under the name "KCK" who have been in Turkey since 2009 have often been brought to trial on the basis of covert witness statements, even though they have not been prosecuted for years because their indictments have not been completed. This lawless violation of fundamental rights also stands as an obstacle to democratisation by serving indirectly unresolved Turkey's Kurdish problem. The fact that the witness is verbally heard by the court to decide whether or not to prove it is the basis of the rules of inconsequential and face-to-face. However, the secret witness agency of CMK No. 5271, brought to our law with Articles 58/2-3, is an unacceptable provision for the right to a fair trial that eliminates the principle of equality of weapons and the right to a fair trial. It is a violation of the defendant's rights, particularly the right to a fair trial, when the defendant is convicted with statements given by an unknown witness at the scene, who is not known for his involvement. In fact, the people of the United States have made many decisions about it. For example, in the case of the European Court of Human Rights (AIDH), as stated in the decision of Ludi/Swiss, evidence, conflicting claims must be presented and discussed in front of the defendant in open court. It is the rule, however, that the exceptions should not violate the right to defend themselves if they are separated from the rule. The defence must be given the opportunity to object to the witness' testimony at the time of or at the time of trial. It is a violation of the right to a fair trial if the opportunity to question the witness is not granted to the defendant. As a result of the absence of the testimony of confidential witnesses or the suspect or the defendant or the defendant, the defense lacks the ability to show that the secret witness is biased and hostile or unreliable because they are unaware of their identity. The charges against the defendant can be made up or just false statements. It is also unlikely that the defence side will be able to shed light on the situation, since it cannot be able to test the testimony's credibility or doubt the credibility of what it says, and the defence is not allowed to discuss the credibility of the confidential witness. The ECHR points out that this is a violation of the right to a fair trial. On the other hand, if the witness' identity is to be concealed, it is also imperative that the witness's identity be disclosed as to why his identity is needed and that the sentence be not based solely on confidential witness statements, but also supported by other evidence. In the decision of Visser/Holland, dated 14/02/2002, the ECHR indicated the extent to which the testimony of the confidential witness should be effective, and ruled that the contract was violated because the threat to the witness was not investigated. In terms of our criminal judgment law, the German penal justice law, which is the source country, has been deemed to be highly mandatory and exceptional, but it is also made clear in the law that it cannot be issued a sentence based solely on confidential witness statements. As a result, it is also adopted by international legal regulations, in which confidential testimony violates the right to a fair trial and defence. In thousands of political cases in Turkey, covert testimony has become almost arbitrary, and people are being punished based solely on covert witness testimony. In this context, we propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate issues in cases due to covert testimony practices, to examine the effects of fair trial and right to defence, to establish how covert testimony should be organised according to universal law norms. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There are three gene motions. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the end of the livestock and agriculture sectors, we would like to announce the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the 98th and 99th Constitutional Constitutional and 99th, according to Articles 106th. As a result of the AKP's neoliberal policies, livestock and agricultural sectors have reached the end. These sectors are not subject to structural reforms, they're not well-funded, they're cut off from the innovation efforts needed for the development of the industry. For these reasons, both producers and feeders and consumers, agriculture, livestock and food sectors face destruction. Even if you look at the pure statistics in this scope, the critical picture of the sectors will be revealed both for consumers and producers. In 2002, the price of pasta kilograms was 0.48 euros, and in 2015 the price of pasta kilograms was $1.5 euros, while in 2002 the price of dried beans kilograms was $2.50, while in 2015 the price of dry beans kilograms was 4.95. In addition, in 2002 the price of the chickpea kilogram was $1.98, while in 2015 the price of the chickpea kilogram was 4.20 euros, the amount of the kilogram was 0.85 euros in 2002, the amount of the kilogram was $2.85 in 2015, the amount of the tea kilogram was 4.70 euros in 2002, the price of the tea kilogram was 12.50 euros in 2015, and the price of the egg egg was 0.13 euros in 2015 was 0.24 euros in 2015, and the price of the sunflower oil was 2.35 pounds at 2.35 euros in 2015. It is urgent to intervene in favor of producers, feeders and consumers before and after the comparison table sets in front of us. A situation similar to the prices of food upstairs also applies to fruit, vegetables, and meat products. The weight of the meat was not much but $31.44 in January at the grocery store. The veal is now sold at $36. The price of red meat has increased by 20% since January. The increase was only within two months. In a short period of two months, the kilogram of carcasin has increased from $20.58 to $22.58. A year ago, veal cost $25.94. In a year, veal has increased by $10 a kilo. In five years, the price of meat has increased by 219 percent. As a result, the price of meat will be very high, along with the rise of the dollar recently. In addition, the price of the tomato is $5.1, $3.34, the price of the cucumber is $1.63, the price of the sale is $3.81, the price of the pepper is $2.28, the price of the pepper is $4.59, the price of the spinach producer is $0.85, the price of the seller is $2.77, the price of the leek manufacturer is $2.35, the price of the sale is $2.42, the price of the cabbage manufacturer, the price of the sale is $1.50, the price of the orange manufacturer is $0.50.50.50. Mr. Eker, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, who is in charge in this department of the executive body to understand and bring solutions to the painting, has thus far been unable to solve the problems of the sectors. Because the ideologically free market and the centralization of neoliberism are one of the biggest obstacles to solving problems. The livestock and agriculture sectors are at an end. Resuscitation of the bankruptcy and reinvigorating agriculture, livestock sectors. In this regard, we would like to ask that the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism be opened on the basis of Article 106 of Constitution 98th and 99th, under Article 106 of the TBM Institution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the Ankara and Lauzan Accords, it was incumbent on Süleyman Shah Turbate and Respect Station of Turkey to abandon the territory of the Republic of Turkey, not to carry out its duty as a national defence by the Constitution, to protect the land of the Republic of Turkey, to act on the Hilaf of ÜMMM1, to defend Turkey's rights and interests, to defend its rights and interests, to act on the basis that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Turkey considers to be a terrorist organisation of PKK/PYD/PYD and ISIS, to take action on behalf of the international agreements, the Constitution, the Constitution, the Constitution and the TBMM decision to protect Turkey's rights rights and interests. The Ankara Treaty, signed between Turkey and the French governments on October 20, 1921, was regarded as the land of the Republic of Turkey, located outside of our borders under Article 9/9 of the Treaty of Lausanne on July 24, 1923, and Article 3/3 of the Treaty of Lausanne. On 14 March 2014, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said, "The land where Sulejman Shah Temple is located is the land of Turkey and is our only territory beyond the border, under the international law inventorship of 1921. Whether it comes from the regime or from radical groups or from anywhere else, it will face the same attack, and Turkey will take every precaution without hesitation about the defence of that land there." he said. On March 25, 2014, Prime Minister Erdogan will do whatever it takes if there is a mistake against the Shah's Temple of Solomon. This land is our land. An attack on this land was an attack on Turkey. On October 2, 2014, the security risk of Solomon Shah Respect Station, which was adopted into the Council of Ministers under international law, has also increased. The threat of terrorism against Turkey's national security and any measures necessary under international law against any security risk, the use of these forces to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organizations in Iraq and Syria, to protect and protect Turkey's high interests effectively and to protect its high interests, has been granted a year in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution. The second joke of Article 117 of the Constitution is that the Council of Ministers is responsible for providing national security and for preparing the armed forces for national defence against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code, which the Council of Ministers is responsible for carrying out its provisions, is as follows: "He who commits a verb to place part of the state's land under the sovereignty of a foreign state... or to separate part of the state from the state's administration will be sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment. The Council of Ministers left Turkish territory on 22 February 2015, unfortunately. Instead of eliminating all kinds of threats and attacks on the homeland, the so-called military operation is a day of shame, where the media has announced the headlines of victory, and in their minds, we have not escaped, we have won. The perception has been created. But instead of taking every precaution in defense of that land, the word that it is a country's land is spoken of in practice, it is preferable to any kind of escape. At the same time, the government briefed terrorist organisations on this operation, which it should be fighting, setting up grounds for legitimacy for terrorist organisations by bringing the shrine to a region of the PKK/PYD. The Council of Ministers has restored Turkey's strategic interests and neutralized our country's ability to defend and deterrents with the will to abandon the country's land abroad. Turkey's Constitution, law and TBM resolutions are not subject to the trust of the Council of Ministers, which gave up defending our homeland, resorting to the debate of terrorist groups instead of international legitimacy, and failing to protect our rights and interests. On these grounds, the motion for a gene is granted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask and demand that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Article 106 of the 98th, 99th and Interior Charter of the Constitution regarding Forest and Waterworks Bakam Mr Veysel Eroglu, who is not active in the implementation of the policies of protecting our forest and water assets, who have made some occupational areas in Istanbul a Rant area and who cannot protect public interest in public tenders. Seyfettin Yilmaz Muharrem Varlı Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Tunca Tuskayay Alim Iş Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Öz S. Nevzat Don't Fear Mustafa Kalaycı Bkent Belen Kemalettin Yilmaz Yusuf Ziya İrbeç Sumer Oral Emin Çınar Adnan Sefik Ugly Attila Rock Edip Semih Yalçın Emin Haluk Ayhan Yusuf Halaçoğlu The ministry's sources have not been used effectively, especially public tenders have been directed to specific focus, except for transparency and the principles of the Public Contraction Agency. Despite protocols under the Turkish Parliament in exchange for the building of Prime Ministerate, the property owned by the General Directorate of the Forest in the Gazi compound has been established, forest headquarters and employees have been victimised and the interests of the public have not been protected. In the HES permits, the removal of effective conservation of water resources has taken place in arbitrary practices in the environment where global warming and climate change have seriously threatened our world and our country with serious threats to serious destruction in the ecosystem and in the presence of the forest. In the past, the park forest of 1,490 acres, which served the people of Istanbul in the status of a type-A forest, has been transformed into a park of nature by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. An opening has been opened by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. On this occasion, areas of employment in Istanbul are being massacred by the environment, trees, and nature, and the rankings are being pursued. Therefore, due to the lack of effective and accurate use of public resources and the effective management of our forest and water resources from our future generations, it has been requested to open a gene for Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council proposal, which includes the day of the talks on whether the genes should be taken off the agenda, will be later determined and submitted to your votes. There's a motion for a parliamentary investigation. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On February 17, 2015, the Ethhem Sandzak media, described by the public as the "air media," launched a heavy, "instruction" and a heavy, "criminal fabrication" broadcast, which was considered a "criminal crime," which began psychological action. Following this group, the Republican People's Party, the main opposition party, is targeted directly by CHP MPs through this smear campaign, which has been carried out by other supporting media organisations. Some dark scenarios that are facing the future are being set up today, with imaginary Twitter correspondence making serious accusations against CHP. This attack, without foundation, with the logic of leaving mud trails, has seen the most severe response in public, but should never be allowed to take the wind of the usual change of agenda and leave it in political history for the future of the democratic law state and the parliamentary system. One of the real reasons for all these attacks is the understanding that public relations between politics and media are now widely known. It is now clear that relationships that have been balanced in the balance of interest and support have been carried out in a very large way. It is understood that media-political relations have become a threat to the state of law, public order and public security. Such a major threat is never expected to be ignored by daily political debates. It has been observed that the political agenda is going through a very tense and controversial process, which is why debates sometimes lead to great tensions in public. However, the attack on CHP MPs and CHP should not be overlooked, except that it is considered a criminal act in accordance with Turkish Penal Code provisions. As it is known, after the 17/25 December 2013 investigations, developments reflected on the agenda of the country and the world have been used effectively by our side as a responsible parliamentary speaker under the duties and responsibilities of the Constitution and the Institution. One of the focal points of some of the work done under the mandate of the law is the very serious events that have led to the definition of "substantive media." In the media, politics and bureaucracy triangle, the events that have been developed include allegations of extremely severe legal consequences. Of course, as a parliamentary speaker, we cannot be expected to be indifferent to the greatest corruption allegations in history. As a matter of fact, we have submitted several legal and administrative applications to ensure that only those responsible for the 17/25 December process be brought to justice and accounted for. However, it is unacceptable for a parliamentarian to fulfill his duty, to attempt to be pressured by such pool media publications. It's a clear danger that such a despicable and dishonorable attack could become a method that could disable the primary function of a parliamentary speaker. Thus, the attack, seen as being directed at myself and the CHP, was directed directly at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This attack was also carried out to prevent law enforcement, which is the deputy's primary duty, and to ensure that the MP does not engage in any audit activities. The constitution and Parliament's internal regulations have been established, as well as the working procedures and foundations of the MP. Among the main tasks and powers of the TBM are to place, change, and remove laws; to oversee the Council of Ministers and ministers. In our system, these control routes, which are organised in the form of a gene question, an investigation motion and a question motion, can not be effectively used. However, it should never be possible for a member of parliament to avoid performing his original function by hiding behind the challenges that a democratic system does not operate as required. As a result, it is extremely important for the parliamentary system and the future of our country to be thoroughly analyzed, probed, and investigated with all the results of such an attack that even destroys freedom of expression. On February 17, 2015, these attacks, which began with the Sun and Star newspapers, followed by the Morning, Calendar, New Dawn, New Akit and Milat newspapers, appear in all the papers from a single centre, where all the articles are prepared, and all the articles in the newspapers are presented "the news," the description, even the interfaces. This attack, which has been seen to be aimed at CHP for now, would appear to be directed at all opposition parties and groups, NGOs, who oppose all irregular antidemocratic practices before the June 7th 2015 elections. These news-looking attacks have been reinforced by the impression that the "source of intelligence" is the source of power, which is sprinkled inside the writings. "The documents are safe, information is in intelligence," the president said during the process when he was no stranger to this plan, while Besir Atalay, the former Deputy Prime Minister and Vice President of the Justice and Development Party today, has an important role, such as the Party Speakership, said. More correspondence will be revealed," he admitted in a sense that imaginary correspondence was planned and included. Its task is to eliminate and eliminate the criminal organization, identify the suspects to be brought to trial, and collect evidence. The political figure in charge of the law enforcement force is Interior Minister Efkan Ala, as of the date of these publications. Article 311 (TCK) of the Turkish Penal Code (TCK) organises "crimes against the law enforcement body." The Republican People's Party is the founding political party of this country, a party in the establishment of the state of the Republic of Turkey. It is the basic rule of the state of law that the TBM function effectively by the will of the nation. The executive body is trying to control the opposition through its pressures on the legislative body. The government's opposition by the Interior Minister's actions in TCK 311 is a clear reality in the state's highest body plans to try to neutralize the CHP. With these pressures, part of the TBMM is the main opposition, the opposition is trying to be dysfunctional. TCK's 114th article again organises "blocking the use of political rights." The most effective way a congressman can use to oversee the government is by making a question motion. However, psychological actions against lawmakers who use effective control methods against the government through the media bodies (substantive media media) are being used, slandered and insulted, discredited in public, and tried to prevent them from using this way by fabricating crimes, not controlling them, simply using their political rights. The Home Secretary, on the other hand, is compiling various information for these black propaganda broadcasts and transmitting false, false deformation data to these institutions that will allow conspiracy to be produced. In this case, the TCK's 257th Article, which regulates the charge of "mission abuse," is also being violated by the Home Secretary. The Interior Minister, who is obliged to maintain public order and security, is in reverse abuse of his position, creating allegations of conspiracy against members of the opposition party he follows through intelligence, transferring it to black propaganda centers, watching citizens violate human rights by destroying their rights not to be tainted. In addition to abusing his post, the Home Secretary is also violating TCK's Article 283, titled "Property of the Guilty." Because the pro-government media group makes up crimes to prevent the opposition from doing its job, but the law enforcement force doesn't take a single step towards what's happening in front of everyone, it ignores what's going on, so it prefers to favor the criminal. It is clear that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, defined in Article 2 of the Constitution, and in the entire functioning of the state, the hierarchy of the laws and procedures are being carried out, and the basic rights and freedoms of individuals are again guaranteed by the Constitution. If a Home Secretary does not recognise the laws, then the basic rights and freedoms of individuals are also unsecured, and public security has been undermined by the basis of public order. Such a person will not be allowed to serve in a position such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, either 3046 or 3056, which is a major contradiction. In light of all these legal and political facts, it is necessary to investigate CHP MPs and CHP in the first place, but in fact, to defunction the parliamentary democratic legal system and even eliminate the entire dimensions of slander and criminal fabrication, to be investigated, to be exposed with the full nudity of the truth and to identify the responsible. On behalf of former Interior Minister Efkan Ala, on the grounds stated above, we propose and propose the opening and opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, under Article 107 of the Grand National Assembly's Institution, in order to investigate the actions of the Ministry and which require criminal responsibility for its work. Hope Oran Hursit Sun Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Haberal Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Ali Serindağ Mehmet Şeker Ali Haydar Öner Aytuğ Atı İzzet Çetin Kemal Ekinci Faik Öztrak Binnaz Earth Musa Pine Sedef Small Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Müslim Sarı Hüseyin Aygün Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Sinan Aydın Aygün Rahmi Love Style Bihlun Tamaylıgil Bkent Kuşoğlu Ensar Öğün Uður Bayraktutan Orhan Straight İhsan Özkes Faik Tunay Haydar Akar Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Veli Ağbaba Aydın Agha Ayadın Turhan Tayan Ali Özgündüz Aytun Çıray Osman Faruk Logoğlu Omar Suha Aldan Ali Demirçalı Gökhan Good morning Jesus Gök Erdal Aksinger Osman Aydın Arif Bulut İlhan Demirözüs Balık Köse Melda Onur Sena Kaleli Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Oğuz Oyan Aylin Nazlıaka İlhan Cihaner Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Mevlüt Dudu Hasan Akgöl Durdu Özbolat Tanju Özcan Gürkut Acar According to the 100th article of the Constitution, and Article 108 of the Interior Charter of the Constitution, the General Assembly shall be determined on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which shall be discussed and agreed on within a month's time as to whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors Monday (16/03/2015) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On January 06, 2015, Van MP Özdal Trier and his friends (1283 rows) suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate "the employment problem of veteran engineers " be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be presented on Monday 16/03/2015 in the same date. People's Democratic Party has asked for a word in favour of the group's proposal Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0021par0432	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed lawmakers on the research proposal for the appointment of graduates from schools that teach food, agriculture and animalism. I salute the General Assembly. Today is March 16th, the anniversary of the Aleppo massacre. A three-day air strike launched by the regime of Baas under Saddam Hussein in front of all the world's governments and people on March 16, 1988, bombed the town of Aleppoce and around it with chemical weapons in Iraq Kurdistan, killing 12,000 people, many of whom were children and women, have also suffered severe injuries. This massacre is like the massacres in Zilan, in Pain, in Lesson, and in Koçgiri. Its purpose is to expel Kurds from their territory, to be assimilated. Unfortunately, in the history of the Kurds, the massacres have recently occurred. In Roboski, 34 people, most of whom were children, were also killed by bombs thrown from fighter planes. There has been no attempt on those responsible, as there has been no face-to-face with the massacres and no apology for them. In order to end the Kurdish problem, which is called a permanent peace, but in all its heat, it is necessary to make amends for them, first in Turkey or Iran, Iraq and Syria, by accepting all the massacres against Kurds in Iraq and Syria in an official manner. In other words, seven students were murdered at Istanbul University on March 16, 1978, and these killers are still walking among us. We won't be able to get past this. Precious lawmakers today have a great deal of agriculture, animalism and food resources in determining the global policies of the world's countries. However, in Turkey, which lacks energy resources, but is a very rich country in agriculture and food resources, it is a question of the unemployment of many who have had a degree in agriculture and food, a master's degree, a doctorate education. The unemployment of agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, fishing technology engineers, veterinary doctors and technicians in this country is one of the main issues that the government and Parliament must investigate. Because of unconscious production, humans are unable to eat fish because of meat, fruits, vegetables, and unconscious hunting. This leads to Turkey being condemned to imports in the agricultural sector. Turkey, which is an agricultural country from the United States, has been forced to import wheat and pickle cucumber seeds from the United States, lentils from Canada, sesame from Sudan, garlic from China, garlic from China, garlic from Italy and spinach, beans from Mexico, apple from Chile, cherry from Germany, zucchini from Germany, bananas from Panama, pomegranates from Bulgaria, beans from Iran, beans from Spain, rice from Australia, rice from Norway, mackerel and salmon from New Zealand, cows from New Zealand, honey from Argentina, tomatoes from France and Israel, seeds from France and Israel. He also had to import agricultural products from 103 countries, including Burkina Faso, Angola, Eritrea, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Uganda. For this reason, it is an important problem for Turkey to be dependent on imports and to question the credibility of the consumed foods, for those who are experts in these fields to be left out of the wheel. As of today, the number of universities that provide vocational education and employment opportunities has been increased day by day, regardless of the quality of education and employment opportunities, but have not been given the same amount of employment opportunities in the public and private sector. Hence, in such areas an army of unemployed people has appeared. Many trade groups have been given public employment opportunities, while public procurement in related areas has been very low, and they have been treated like stepchildren. Precious lawmakers have been used by ministry staff, who have already been given a limited number of staff, as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has already made appointments, given that the appointed staff has been given a chance to choose again in the next appointment. Therefore, they work for minimum wage in areas that have nothing to do with their majors, while those who work in private sectors have to say yes to low wages. Dear lawmakers, the employment of these people, who will direct production and guide the manufacturer, is stronger, more indispensable for modern agriculture and animalism. It is not possible to talk about agricultural and animal production in the absence of agricultural engineers in the production of all agricultural and animal products. Again, such issues as the rehabilitation and breeding of animal races, increasing efficiency, maintaining their health do not seem possible in the absence of veterinary physicians. The lack of water products engineers and fishing technology at the point where active fishing boats come ashore, and the lack of overfishing and other legal hunting criteria, which result from the lack of employment by engineers, also leads to the extinction of fish. Again, the credibility of the consumed foods has been questioned by the public. It is not possible to prevent this food terror from happening in Turkey without the employment of food engineers. There are also significant problems in Turkey, both in the matter of seedling and in the matter of agricultural vehicles. Hence, it is greatly beneficial to use the most effective methods for fertilizer, seedling, and agricultural medicine. Precious lawmakers, aside from the benefits of the employment of those professional groups, the country's agriculture and livestock sector, should not be forgotten that unemployment and poverty continue to be a major problem that shakes the individual, society and families fundamentally. Therefore, it is wise to take the necessary steps to address the victims who are waiting for the task of fulfilling their professional responsibilities. There are now 70,000 engineers, technicians and technicians waiting to be appointed in agriculture and livestock. Each one of them often remains in search of all lawmakers to be appointed and struggles because there is no solution to their own problems. In 2013, 5,567 were promised, but 490 were assigned. Again, in 2014, 2,000 men were promised in the same area, only four were appointed. On the one hand, we know he needs a staff, but we're dealing with a ministry that doesn't meet these staff demands. It must not be forgotten that the grower, the peasant, the animal farmer, the farming peasant, will surely want to see an engineer, a technician next to him. There are intense demands for that. These demands must be considered. It reminds me once again that we're going to be following this matter, I wish the Ministry would listen to the screams of our unappointed friends. After that, it is wise to consider the situation of our fellow engineers in this group, whether in such purchases or in such appointments. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0022par0451	Thank you. Now, it's Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP who wants a word against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0023par0455	Mr. President, respected lawmakers, I have taken a vow on the HDP Group's parliamentary research proposal to address the employment problems of agricultural professionals and therefore increase plant and animal production. I salute your High Council. Honourable lawmakers, of course, are all these mentioned trade groups -- military engineering, food engineering, veterinary medicine, their technicians, fishermen's engineers -- for production, for plant production, therefore for animal production, and therefore for providing for human needs, food needs; also for maintaining plant health, animal health, and community health. So the whole point of the whole thing is to have access to more food, to have food safety, to be reliable, to be able to maintain human health, and to also protect public health within the processes of plants, animals, people, and production. Of course, enough employment for these trade groups within the country would be a very important contribution to further production of the basic food materials that our people need and to the potential production of our country as well. Honourable MPs, I am a member of the 1982 agricultural faculty. In those years, after two years of training there, labor problems began in agricultural engineering. While we were trying to catch an exit point, I went to a veterinary department. In 1989, just as we were about to graduate, employment problems began there. I mean, as soon as our colleagues were employed before we finished, they became unemployable after those years. Until when? By 2003, until the AK PARTI power, the recruitment of these mentioned trade groups has been completely shut down, blocked, and, by the way, added another problem. What was that? More colleges, more people from these professions, but no jobs. So when the EC PARTY came to power, there was already a serious stockpile in these professional groups, where there was already serious problems in these professional groups, such as occupational erosion, violations of ethical rules, which already existed in 2002. In fact, remember, our friends in these trade groups, agriculture engineers, food engineers, veterinary engineers, water products engineers, fisheries engineers, their technicians and technicians would apply for employment in whatever areas the state, the government would allow, they would become teachers, they would settle there if there was an economic gap, they would go into finance, they would go into every area. Later, friends -- about 2,500,7,000 vets, about 11,500 agricultural engineers, water products engineers, fisheries engineers, and food engineers -- were employed from the door of the AK PARTI, which, slowly, people's employment in these professions, has been opened to colleagues in both our ministry and its subsidiary institutions so far -- to an average of 2,500,7000 per year. Actually, these numbers are huge. WHEN you look at the number from the years when the EC PARTI came to power to this day, it's more than the total of the Ministry of Agriculture, but there's such a big pile of our colleagues that the more you take, the more it comes down to old unemployment in the next year. Look, around 2,700 jobs are created in Turkey every year -- I'm just talking about what's in the state -- the private sector is separate -- but the problem continues to grow, my friends. The reason for this is that many schools, many colleagues, but few jobs. The employment problem in these professions is not reduced, although the EC PRITI has so many purchases, it continues to increase, because the number of graduates per year is more than 6,000 years. If you distribute it according to professions, the EC PARTI governments employ about 2,700. But it is added to the unemployed who are available every year around 3,300. So, how does this problem reflect on our production? Of course, some countries -- especially when you look at the Far East -- have a very serious impact on the development of these professional groups. And in our country, it's hard to ignore the contribution of people who practice these professions in labor, in animalism, in the mountains, in the country, in the country, in the country, in the field, in the production of plants and animals, and therefore in the supply of food. Of course, we have to accept once again that these jobs are very important in the country's productions, in its scientific productions, in providing a productive, rational production. So the production of a field where the engineer, the veterinary physician, is made entirely by public hands, production with low efficiency, non-random production, non-rational production means non-rational production. In this sense, we, the EC PARTY governments, have employed 35,000 people in the total of 13 years -- about 3 semesters, about 23,000, only within the Ministry, and 11 thousand to the branches. So when you divide that by 2,700, it's a very large number per year, but still, as I said, it's not enough to solve problems. It has to continue by increasing, considering budget opportunities. That's what the AK PARTY thinks, and that's what he intends. He wants to add more to the production of people who have graduated from these professions -- including education planning and education planning -- and more to ensure that the victims of these colleagues are prevented. When I give you about the numbers, it is possible to understand how the EC PARTY actually benefited from the production of these trade groups. For example, some of the things mentioned in the research proposal need to be answered. The claim is that Turkey has become an importer country in agriculture and animalism. It is never true because Turkey was a 92 per cent exporter in 2002; it is now around 107 per cent, so Turkey is clearly an exporter in agriculture and animalism, and Turkey is a country that has increased agricultural product nine years in a row in the last decade; it is the record of the last 50 years; it is the record of the last 50 years. The support for agriculture and animalism in Turkey is around $2 billion a year, but it is around $11 billion a year, and its total size is around 70 billion, or 70 quadrillion, during the administrations of the EC PARTY. So, the laborer's supports from the AK PARTI authorities have increased more than 10 times in the world, and these figures have shown themselves in this way: the size of our agricultural product to power in Europe since it was in the 11th place in the world, while the EC PARTI was in the 11th rank, while the government policy was in the world, 7th, Spain in Europe, Italy, and Italy, leaving Germany behind Germany. However, you also have to admit that these trade groups are professional groups for production, they are busy working groups, and there's a great deal of trouble for them to be employed in other areas when they finish schooling. As long as our government and our people continue to have the power, power, support of the EC PARTI, as long as our government's power continues, we intend to accept that there is a need for more work in areas that are opened in both the ministry and the private sector, and that we will continue to employ these professional groups in the state, increasing in the following years. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0024par0467	Thank you. Now, the third speaker in favor of the proposal is Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0025par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians, water products engineers, fishing technology engineers, tobacco technology engineers, technicians, technicians -- all of our friends who have finished two years, four years of pre-licenses and licenses, so they've studied themselves through the night as a contribution from their families. These friends are out of work in this country. What numbers can we understand the unemployment of these friends? For example, right now, 70,000 of our friends are waiting for a staff to be assigned to the working area of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Let me tell you something a little bit more general. The Turkish Statistical Agency says that the unemployment rate among young people who have studied higher education is 20.2%. What does that mean? So, four out of five graduates got jobs and couldn't find one. Look, yes, it's a public statistics, it's a state statistics, but right now millions of people and thousands of engineers are listening to us. Is one out of five unemployed or four out of five unemployed? What does the truth of life mean to us? So, over 20 percent, we see that our friends who have finished these schools are significantly unemployed. So, why this unemployment thing? That's the answer to the question. As the AKP MP just said, is Turkey jumping in agriculture or are we dealing with other facts in agriculture? Look, guys, if you don't know, look at the numbers, I say that all the time. I'm telling you the product, you're not telling the truth in one of them. Say it. Wheat, barley, corn, soy, soy, cassock, beans, lentils, lentils, beans, all of that, once again, you're all importers. And you come out here and you talk about Turkey jumping in agriculture. I'll give you a number one more time. France, for example. We're the 1st in Europe. You're saying that France exports 102 billion euros, it imports 60-odd billion euros; France earns 35 billion euros a year in agriculture. Spain's income from agriculture is 15-20 billion euros. Do you know what your situation is? You're out six or seven billion dollars per year on agricultural raw materials. Don't people look at numbers? How much more of these lies will be told from these platforms.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0026par0474	Speak without a shout.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0025par0475	I'm telling you, you pay for imports of $6,7 billion a year.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0026par0476	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0025par0477	I'm screaming for you to hear me, hear me. You take the wheat from the outside, you take the barley from the outside, you take the corn from the outside, you take the corn from the outside, you take it from the outside... look, this lentil, this lentil, this lentil of Turkey, we take it from Canada because of you, you still come out and talk about it. 20 years ago, Turkey was making a baklava because it couldn't find a place to store what it produced, brother. Now, in your time, you go and buy lentils from Canada, which is brought on a cruise in a week. Don't you ever look at a number? He's a congressman, doesn't he look at numbers? Now, they're telling you, we've developed agriculture, we've taken staff, blah, blah, blah. My dear friends, the population of Turkey was 44 million in 1980, 78 million today, 100 million in the middle term. You, today, I tell you once again every year - you're paying $18 billion for imports of agriculture and food. The total money you're paying for agriculture and food imports in your time of power, with the current dollar dry, is over 350 quadrillion liras. You're not gonna get anywhere by coming out here throwing stuff like that. During your rule, Turkey has given up processing two Thracian-sized areas. Do you know why? The man who works is bankrupt, it's that simple. Go to your districts, ask the farmer. Oh, he's telling me, what is it? Sir, he's increased the support! Well, forgive me, but in this country, the refinery costs $1.15 and you sell it to the farmer for $4. The tax total you receive on diesel alone is 10 quadrillion liras. So you're taking all the support you claim to give the farmer back from the VAT and VAT tax alone. You don't take WTVs from yachts, you get WTVs from tractors, that's your idea of justice.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0027par0480	He ran away, saying, "Mazot is one lira."
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0025par0481	Stop beating around the bush and look at the farmer, look at the engineer. Have a little responsibility for these people. My dear friends, look, in 2013, you promised this country 5,567 staff. How much did you get? You've made 490 appointments. In 2014, you promised 2,000 casts, only 4 appointments. Mehdi Eker said over and over again on this bench: "I have asked the Ministry of Finance for 2,000 staff, we will appoint the future, we will appoint." What did the Minister of Finance say in the Plan Budget Commission? No, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has no such commitments, no staff demands, he said. I'm asking you right now, is it appropriate to lie to the Minister of Agriculture and play with the dreams of these friends? Either your Finance Minister is lying or your Minister of Agriculture is lying. One of them says: "I asked for a staff. The other says: "No one has asked me for a staff. " One of these two ministers is lying, which one of them is lying? Do you guys look good in playing with these kids' dreams? Now, my dear friends, my friend tells me that there is so much supply in Turkey that we can't employ them. Who runs the high school? Am I running it? Isn't that the Justice and Development Party that's been ruling this country for thirteen years? In your time, you're opening colleges, opening schools. We say: "You can't open a university like you're opening a high school, you can't do that without planning." How much did you do? There are 186 universities, 72 foundations. These have 35 agricultural schools. Only the Church and Düzce don't get students. So, how many quotas can you fill in at 33 agricultural schools? It's 75 percent average. Şırnak Faculty of Agriculture works with 16 per cent, Rize Recep Tayyip Erdogan School works with 23 per cent, Ahi Evran 30 per cent, Bilık 30 per cent, Siirt 32 per cent, Bozok 39 per cent. Now, what does this show? So you're actually playing with those people's futures by opening up an agricultural faculty, opening unnecessary universities, raising a high-school graduate like high school. You're playing with these kids' futures without reviving your economy, without planning. What do they grow from here? People who grow up here can't get jobs. I give you the 2014 number: 4,332 students registered in 2014, 5,000 agricultural engineers graduate from agricultural schools only every year; count food engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers, technicians, technicians. I'm asking you now: you kill agriculture, you kill animalism, you make economics based solely on construction and Ranta, and average unemployment is 10%, unemployment is 20 percent among highly trained young people, and I've given 20 percent here. You're playing with these kids' dreams like ping-pong balls. Can you play any more? I'll tell you something. Look, this kid calls out to you, he says: "I live in Chanakkale Bayramic." My name is Jahan Aricıoğlu, and I'm 27. I graduated from Thrace Agriculture, five years ago. I got into KPSS, got 70 points, passed the government official dam. But they didn't give me a job. I got married six months ago. I can't do my job. I serve tea for $20 a day. Now, the plague of this child is on you, and the plague of this child is on you, and it says, "Even in Kuran, protect your relatives." It is on the neck of the AKP Group, which does not employ the son of a citizen, but does all sorts of favors to their own children, who care for their own children. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0028par0487	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen, Kastamonu MP. Here you go, Mr. Gülşen.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0029par0491	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the HDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the HDP group's proposal to open parliamentary research on the employment problem of veterinary, engineers, technicians and technicians who have been trained in agriculture, animalism and food areas is required. Our Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who had spoken against the group proposal before me, made a detailed statement on the matter. Again, in favour of the group's proposal, the entire topic of agricultural production, spoken before me by our esteemed MP, has been answered in a row by lawmakers from our party group, both our Minister of Agriculture and our party group. I'm not going to go any further than I have said to get on the agenda of the House as soon as possible by our group. However, I'd like to report something here. For each professional group, the subject of the public employment of each professional group is done with the balance of need and opportunity. The AK PARTY governments have successfully maintained the balance of need-and-responsibility for thirteen years. The need for professional groups, veterinarians, engineers, technicians and technicians mentioned in the motion is well known by our government. The employment of these trade groups will continue to be provided in the coming period as much as the budget opportunities are available. Therefore, I say we are against the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0030par0496	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0031par0497	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit04spe0030par0498	I'm going to submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the motion is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Monday (March 16th 2015) there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 25 November 2014 and 2014/2311, TBM President; Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz and his friends suggested that our parliamentary research motion, which was given on Monday (March 16th 2015), was read in the General Assembly to determine the reasons why the Ataturk Forest Farm was transformed from the first-degree natural site to the third-degree status area. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0018	Mr. President, I have made a promise as the National Movement Party that the Ataturk Forest Farm, in the heart of the capital, will be turned into a first-degree historical and natural site, and will be converted into a third degree. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, the composer of the famous forestman's song, the state artist Nazmi Askin Hakk, has received the mercy of God's mercy. Dear lawmakers, the area where the palace was built was taken as the property of the Forest General Directorate in 1954, as we call it. As a result of the long work of the faithful Turkish foresteer for fifty-sixty years, studies have been carried out by Turkish foresters to create one of Turkey's most beautiful botanical gardens in what we might call a "sorak" area with ground-to-ground trees. Now, before the palace was built, it was covered with forests, with cedar and lime, from ash to ash, from oak to pine, all kinds of forest. Again, from owls to foxes, to crows, it was a habitat where wildlife lived there, and over the years it was built into a botanical garden, in which people breathed in Ankara, in a growing population, in which, as a result of the technical and extraordinary work of Turkish foresteers, it contained 68 species of plants, both natural and exotic. Until Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan saw this area and became interested in the palace, it began to appear in public that the Prime Minister's office in Turkey is not enough, this prime minister's building must be moved to a greater place. Where will it be moved? The easiest way is with the Ataturk Forest Farm, which we can call the will of Ataturk, which comes from the labor of the Turkish forestman, without labor, without contributing, without contributing, without contributing, with the will of Ataturk Forest... look here, on 11 June 1937, there is the will of Ataturk. What does it say in his will? He's donating all the forges, all the goods, all the plots, to the treasure. Who owns the treasure? The treasure belongs to the nation. When he was donated to this treasure, he handed it over to be a treasure, but someone's love for luxury and luxury came to the surface and they turned this land into a center of luxury that Ataturk had handed over to the treasure. Dear lawmakers are now being asked about Ataturk's will when TMMOB (Turkish Engineers and Architect Rooms Union) sues. Although the will of Ataturk (Ataturk) has been sent to the state archives all decisions in the 54th government -- including the late Necmettin Erbakan (a part of the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures) -- in response to the question of a deputy prime minister, the will of Ataturk. Here is the will of Ataturk, which was written on June 11, 1937. Dear friends, what happens next in this area? Dear lawmakers are suing both the Forest Engineers' Room and TMMOB. You know, where's the bureaucrat, the congressman, the minister who's going to resist after the Prime Minister puts his eye on this place? Our Minister of the Forest, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, is acting quickly from the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister's instructions. The first-degree area, you know, is not allowed to build. They say: let's turn this place from the first-degree status area to the third-degree area, because this place was declared a site in 1997, and it's impossible to build here. The order of Veysel Eroglu, who accepts this instruction, is sent to the bureaucrats. So, what's to be done to turn the first-degree status field into a third-degree sit area? Do you know what Forest Director Mustafa Kutsulli, who served in this profession for 45 years, now retired, calls this place where there are these 80-year-old cedar trees? It'll turn him into a first-degree third-degree status area. Look, guys, these are 80 years old. If you show it to a 45-year-old forest engineer, he'll see it's 70-80 years old. There are hundreds of examples of this here. To the place where there are thousands of trees here, as if the trees began here in ten years, the trees are 11 years old. They keep a false report, saying, "They are 11 years old." Is there such an informal, illegitimate thing, dear friends? You don't think you're gonna get paid for this? I'm asking you very clearly. We're following this. Now, I'm detecting this illegal palace like a detective, and tomorrow, one day, I'll explain the documents. You know, they call it 1 quadrillion, 300 trillion, and the numbers are not 1 quadrillion, 300 trillion times higher than that. I'll explain this in two days with his papers. Mr. Prime Minister was saying, "Yes, should we welcome the nation's prime ministers on the road or not, the state has no dignity?" What happened to the dignity of the state? That's where the PM stands. If you were Prime Minister, you'd go there, now you've built a palace there. I'll explain how many quadrillion there are in two or three days. And they say, "Should we not consider the dignity of the state??" Now, people will gather coal from hunger and bring home bread, and those with torn shoes will walk through this land. Look here, Uncle Recep, it's Aunt Ayþe who wants to bring home bread with a sack of coal on her back. What reputation are you talking about in the snow, where there are people walking, carrying your child's funeral on their back? Before you see this, you're talking about palaces and pomp and dignity. I want to tell you from here that you built Finnish baths, saunas, hot tubs, not enough pools. You broke down a congressional palace there, rebuilt it, buried millions of dollars in the ground. You brought the granite in special. Here in Turkey, the ash-leaf maple that grows in Turkey, where there are trees available, you brought them from a town in Germany, from a private nursery, in trucks, and planted trees, despite all the trees that grow in Turkey. What reputation are you talking about where there's so much glory? If you are looking for dignity, you can talk about dignity when you provide the human environment of the people of the country. Quite frankly, today you have built a palace with 1,350 rooms, five quadrillion figures, and if it were in the palace, there would be a reputation in Ceausescu's 1,150-room palace.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0033par0027	What did you do?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0028	Mr. Bartin's MP, if there was any dignity, there would be dignity in the king of Saudi Arabia. Are you saying that you're not going to be asked to...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0033par0029	You've been in power for three and a half years, you've got yourself a headquarters, haven't you? How did you do that?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0030	Oh, let me tell you about headquarters.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0033par0031	You tell me about your headquarters.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0032	At the site of the Ataturk Forest Farm, Willows National Park was one of Turkey's most important national parks, where you established the General Centre for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0033par0033	You look at your headquarters, your headquarters. How did you do that in three and a half years?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0034	You're sitting there now on top of the illegal headquarters. When did you do that? You did it in 2007.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0033par0035	How did you build a headquarters in three and a half years when the country was in crisis? There's even a helicopter landing on it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0032par0036	What do you need to build big buildings there? I need a parking lot and a green area. Metropolitan City's making a zoning change right away. What did you do in the National Park, where people breathe, where all kinds of plants, animals live? You put him in the Justice and Development Party parking lot. Here, I'm telling you, for two or three years now, the city has traded the city hall for the forest headquarters. Oh, don't think you're getting rid of them now. No matter what you do, it's our duty to answer for it when the day comes. I say to you, whoever does wrong, he will give its account in the sight of God and in the sight of God. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0034par0040	Thank you. It's Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP who wants a word against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party's proposal to investigate illegal practices that have been turned into a third-degree status area while the Ataturk Forest Farm is a first-degree natural site. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, one of the most important places given to our nation by the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the Ataturk Forest Farm. In 1925, Ataturk called our country's well-known farmers to the Mansion, saying he wants to build a modern farm around Ankara, and asking for a suitable land to be searched for. When experts offer many alternatives, they point to the location of today's farm. On the edge of Ankara, both the swamp and the barren place orders reformation and farming. First, 20,000 acres are purchased from Mrs. Faike, the wife of the late Abidin Pasha. Later, Etimesgut, Balgat, Çakler, Doves, Macun, Tahar, and Rainfather's Farms were also purchased. In this way, a large and modern farming operation will have enough space, land, and today's Veteran Forest Farm.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0036par0046	What happened, then what happened?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0047	Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk runs this farm himself in 1925-37, where he bought it all with his own money. Later, in 1937, he gave this place to the treasure, and thus to his nation, and the Veteran Forest Farm was linked to the State Agriculture Corporation in 1938. Until 1950, the farm was run at this status for twelve years, and then became the body of the Ataturk Forest Farm with Law 5659. The Ataturk Forest Farm was later declared a natural and historical site in 1992 by the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings, No. 2436.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0036par0048	How did the palace get built?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0049	Yeah, what happens next? The site of the Ataturk Forest Farm is 55,538. The first of the farm's land losses began in 1939 when the brewery was built. From 39 to 83 years to 44 years, the total loss of land on the farm is 22,282 with the decisions of nine law and State Agriculture Boards.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0036par0050	What happened to the land?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0051	Who bought the land? The State Department of Defense took 10,000 acres of it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0036par0052	What did he do?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0053	12,222 acres have gone to treasure, Machine Chemistry and other public institutions. Yes, now where were those who shouted Ataturk Forest Farm almost 40 percent of Ataturk's farm going?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0037par0055	So you took 60 percent, you made a profit! I'll take 60 percent...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0056	Yes, 40 percent of them have gone and most of them have been moved to the settlement. Look, later, between 1953 and 60, the 868 acres of the Ataturk Forest Farm are sold to the Forest General Directorate. So today, the area we refer to as "Gazi Farm" is not the property of the Ataturk Forest Farm, but the property of the forest headquarters' public legal personality.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0038par0058	Who sold it?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0059	He sells Ataturk Forest Farms.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0038par0060	Who sold it? He cannot be sold by the authority of the Forest Farm.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0061	Ataturk Forest Farm sells the farm's management, and Ataturk Forest Farm sells it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0039par0062	We didn't sell it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0063	We didn't sell it. Look, this area is also declared a first-degree area by the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Naturalities in 1992.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0040par0064	So, how do you build a site?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0065	The Forest General Directorate builds public housing in this area, as well as building administrative buildings, and planting and reforestationing the rest of it, covering it with both public and green tissue, but when it's given to the Forest General Directorate, it's an empty, naked area.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0041par0066	No, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong. There are pictures, wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0067	Yeah, well, these are the reports. There are photos of this, too, that there's an empty, naked area.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0041par0068	No, no, no.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0069	It's an empty, naked area by the forest headquarters.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0041par0070	No, no, don't.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0071	This is not a natural site, it is an artificial structure. The Ankara Council of Protection of Culture and Nature -- the Site -- is converting this area from the first degree of natural status to the third degree of natural status because there is public use in this area. It converts it into a third-degree status area for public use, because it's not natural, it's got a community service, it's got 360 housing, it's got 17,000 to 20,000 square feet of public institutions. So there's no natural field presence here. It turns it into a third-degree area. Therefore, it is the property of the Forest General Directorate, and the authority to save money belongs to the Director General of the Forest. The Forest General Directorate, a corporate institution, can trade its properties for another institution, and there are many examples. Therefore, he trades with the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister's office makes the trade by handing it over to the TOKI. The Forest Engineers' Chamber is taking this exchange to the court. Case 1. He's being rejected by the Executive Court, the Forestry Engineers' Room appeals, and the process continues. Another case opens in the Architects' Room. The application of the Engineers and Architects Room is Ankara 1st. He's being rejected by the Admin Court. However, the 10th Circle is disrupting this decision and the process continues. As it turns out, there's no law in this area. In these third-degree sites, zoning can be granted permission from the Site Board. In this framework, permission has been granted and construction has been maintained. There is no violation of the status legislation and the zoning law. Dear lawmakers, in other areas of the Ataturk Forest Farm, look, from 1925 to 2002, the area is divided into 4,500 deforestations. In 2002-2012, at the Ataturk Forest Farm, the total treeing area was 18,500 per year, four times as many as the Ataturk Forest Farm, which was made green. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Yeah, my colleague just mentioned exotic species here. Yes, of course, all sorts of exotics that are not in line with the nature of that area. This can sometimes be brought from another part of the country, sometimes from outside. Therefore, there were not 150 exotic species, but 560 exotic species planted in that presidential mansion, which you judged. Please go over there and see how exotic they are. You're talking about exotic species gone. That much more, five times more exotic species have been planted. I'd like to put an end to my words by expressing another thing here. Also, for the first time in Turkey, a national botanical park is set up on 1,000 acres of Ataturk Forest Farm. The construction of a multinational botanical park, where all exotic species can be brought to the final stage by the Ministry of Agriculture. No one can say green is being slaughtered in Turkey in the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0042par0076	What was it made of? Tell me the truth. Why were they made? You did it to the president.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0035par0077	Turkey is one of the first three countries in the world to plant more trees in ten years. I'd like to point that out. I declare we will be against this motion, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0080	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0081	Mr. President, I'd like to make some adjustments as Deputy Director of the Group to keep the word of Mr. Seyfetttin about the Forest Farm a secret.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0082	I don't understand, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0083	Mr. Seyfettin's word, against his request, is that I specifically want to correct what he said as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0084	No, what you're saying can't be corrected, but you can ask for a say. Otherwise, you have no right to correct what he says, so you have no right to say that, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0085	How am I not allowed to ask for words, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0086	Here's the thing: if there's bullying, you can ask for a word. If you'd like to speak as Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0087	Can't the vice president of the group ask for a word other than bullying?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0088	You can't, sir. It's like correcting your words.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0089	All right, then...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0090	You can ask for it as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0044par0091	I want you to be vice president of the group.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0092	Okay, that's what I'm saying. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0094	The speaker stated that I gave false information in my speech. The second said, "Where was this massacre at the Ataturk Forest Farm?" I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0043par0096	Come in, Mr. Yilmaz, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0099	Now, dear lawmakers, of course, I respect the speaker, we worked together, that's one thing, but don't let God put anyone in a position to defend wrong. I don't think that's... Now we've planted so many trees... lt's the Minister's mouth. The minister says we've planted millions of seedlings.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0046par0101	Is he lying?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0102	Mr. General Manager knows very well that there is no forest with sapling. It takes 40 years, 50 years, 60 years to grow a forest in one place, but Mr. Veysel Eroglu says that when he comes out, for the plants he scatters in Afyon: I have scattered millions of plants, we have made so many forests. For God's sake, all of us know that the forest doesn't grow with sapling, you know that forest needs to grow. Now we've planted 560 exotic plants in the Presidential Palace. Look, dear lawmakers, objectively, don't argue wrong. You see those trees, those trees? Where these areas are... the minister told me in the House that not one tree will be cut down. Don't you trust the minister of state? What is this place, dear friends, and what is this place?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0047par0104	Where?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0105	Here's where the palace is, where the trees have been cut down.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0047par0106	Have you been to the palace?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0107	Yeah. Come on, let's go. If it's not like this, I'll give you everything.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0047par0108	You're not coming.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0109	Look, you see those trees being cut down? Look, look, they were all jungles. For the sake of God, be silent where you are wronged, and do not be unjust. Now, this is turning into a first-degree site in 1997, where no forest engineer has ever done that in his profession, which gives third-degree status approval. This is political pressure.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0048par0112	Is 5 billion trees planted or not?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0113	If we submit to political pressure and then say it in the name of the forestry profession, we'll be wrong in our profession, insulting our profession.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0049par0114	Not at all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0045par0115	Second thing: have we been in power in sixty years? We saw wrong today. The woods are being slaughtered, they're being flashed, you're making pools, you're making hot tubs instead of trees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a shame, isn't it? That's what we'll say.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0050par0119	Yes, thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, if we think of your logic, let's kill so many people and give birth to so many. You're saying something like that. Now, do you know the entire area of the Ataturk Forest Farm, the vast area? Do you know how far it goes? How far does it go, Congressman? Look, you don't know. Because you don't know it, you're saying that we planted so many trees. The tree plant was really a land that had no trees, but now the palace is a territory that has nothing to do with where it was built. You know that's what happened. Look, the wrongs...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0052par0127	The tree will be here, it'll be here; what difference does it make?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0128	Wrong...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0052par0129	Oh, no, we've done the science.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0130	Now, the tree was planted there...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0052par0131	What about the tree that was there or the tree that was there?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0132	At least don't say it's for those areas. The trees were planted there before, and you know it. Now it's not true. Those who don't say it aren't telling the truth. Dear friends, there have been great mistakes at the Ataturk Forest Farm, and many others in previous times. So the fact that they made those mistakes doesn't mean you had to make the same mistake, but you had to fix it. The tractor factory, for example. What's the point? Was there no other place in Turkey, where they gave it away? They were wrong, too. It's a team...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0053par0134	What tractor factory is there?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0135	There's a coach's tractor factory in the back.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0054par0136	Who gave it to him?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0137	Look, I'm not saying you don't know the limits of the Forest Farm. You don't know. The current tractor...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0055par0138	What's it gonna be? What are you going to do with the farm? What should we do with the farm? You tell me, we'll do it. What do we do?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0051par0139	Take it out, throw it away, send it somewhere else. Other than that, look, my friends, all the way up to the willows, where the station is today, where the youth park is, where the stadium is; all the forest land, the Ataturk Forest Farm, is here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And in the past period, there was a committee called the National Committee, after the Universe, after 80. They've made mistakes, all of them. Did you have to keep making those mistakes?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0056par0142	Yes, thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0057par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0056par0144	Please... Now, it's the Ankara MP who wants to speak in favor.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0058par0150	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge in favor of the nationalist movement group proposal. I salute you all on this occasion. The issue is primarily that the natural and historical site of this historical site, which is the first degree of natural and historical status, is transformed into a third-degree status area in 2011, and then a palace is built on it, opening the way to construction. This matter needs to be studied from this point of view, and it needs to be investigated. After all, this area was a natural area of Ankara, a historical area, an important area as well as a city. This area suddenly has to be shape-shifted, it has to be investigated, as the nationalist movement group suggested, but there's also a legal aspect to the issue, look, there's a very important legal aspect to it, and it needs to be investigated in this way. There's a historical aspect to it that we have to respect history. It has a cultural aspect, it has a natural field, and it has this side of it, and it has something to do with the city, it has something to do with the capital, it has something to do with our most important city, and it needs to be investigated this way. In all of this, we have to look into the subject as a whole. So we have to think about it in these ways. Now, here's the legal side: the law is above all else. There may have been some mistakes in the past, but that's no excuse. I'm in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we're just upstairs discussing some issues, sir, for example, about the Public Contraction Act, and it says: let's make another exception to the purchases that TRT will make from the Anadolu Agency. Why are we bringing exceptions? There are already a lot of exceptions, so what happens if we bring another one? There is no legal logic. And here, Mr. Coffeeman, as you said, it's been done before. These are the wrong things. There's no point in doing it later in 2011, because there's no reason for any other illegality to be committed on top of one lawlessness, which is not a reason, it's not true because it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true. So these are the wrong jobs, and we have to sit down and work on the legal dimension. Besides, do you know how many cases are involved? There are over 50 cases, more or less all relevant organizations, occupational organizations have filed lawsuits, issues of litigation, and a great amount of lawsuits have arisen as a result of all these lawsuits. A few months ago, when the Minister of Justice was arguing about the matter, he had to apologize here on the basis of a claim regarding our Group Deputy Director, Mr. Sky. You know, there's also the court's decision to stop an execution on the matter. It's been a real mess for the law, too, ever since. So it's not just the AKP era, it's also about all the times from the past, it's about finding out why these mistakes are caused, how they're done. We don't just have to do this for a semester, we have to do this all the time. There's a 90 hectare area in our capital, a historical area, a cultural area, a place to breathe for the capital, we can't protect it. One way or another, we've been getting this far for years. This needs to be investigated. It needs to be an example. A similar incident should not repeat itself in Turkey. How do we make these mistakes? How can there be such a problem? We need to be able to put this together. Just a moment ago, Master Joseph says that the tractor factory was built there. It really shouldn't be built, why is it built? You said the brewery, it shouldn't be built. This area could be projected and transferred to the present, and it could have been a very different area for the capital, with its sample plants, and its vegetation is very valuable. We could've done all this, why didn't we? These things need to be investigated and learned a lesson, a guide. That's why...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0059par0157	The new place is beautiful, Mr. Kusoglu, so the new place is beautiful. I mean, the palace, it's a beautiful place right now.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0058par0158	The palace is beautiful, that's debatable. Look, there's that part of it. I just told you, it's got a government dimension. A government doesn't just make a decision like that, just for no reason, build a palace. I'm building the Prime Minister's office, and then I'm going to come out and I'm going to make the world's money... look, there are big projects and there are projects like tube passes and third bridges, but we don't know how much this palace costs, but we don't know how much it costs. Look, I'm a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, and the answer to the question I'm asking is £1 billion,370 million. I mean, it's a building that costs more than $1 billion, 370 million, and the Treasury doesn't know it, it's got that kind of weirdness, it's got state code, it's got government administration.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0060par0160	A hundred years will satisfy Turkey's needs.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0058par0161	Out of nowhere, a state will say, "I am building the Prime Minister's office. There is no need, there is no report for such a need." After that, this building will then be transformed into the presidency. There are news in the papers today, the number of people working for the presidency has increased to 2,700 and 700 people have been added. Was there such a need? No, he wasn't there yesterday. If Mr. President Erdogan hadn't won these elections and Mr. Ihsanoglu had won, would this building have been assigned to the presidency? It wasn't, and you know it, and I know it because there's no need for it. Look, in a state administration, in a sane, sitting state administration, in a country with thousands of years of state tradition like Turkey, a decision like this can't be made in one day. That was wrong. In terms of state administration, the palace there is a freak. None of us can argue. You're going to say, "I'm doing it for the Prime Minister." You're going to say, "I'm doing it when there's no need." You're going to say, "I'm doing it," and then you're going to give it to the presidency. You're not going to give it to the president, you're going to give it to the person. It's a pleasure, it can't be such a disgrace. I can't do this in the past...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0061par0164	The Mukhtars are pleased, chiefs.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0058par0165	Look, we've got great examples in the past, we've got great examples of government, we've got good examples in the Republic, we've got some in the past. With his army travelling from Selim Edirne, the man of the state is sending him off. On the way back, Master Ali of Zembilm sees a group, bound and taken away. What is it? He said, "What is it?" asked the Zembilite Lord Sheikhulism. They said they didn't listen to the decree of the king about the silk trade. All of these -- all 400 of them -- will be strangled, executed. At that time, Turkey, of course, is a silk paradise, taken from Turkey to the silk West, and the balance is shaken. The padishah has made such a restraining order. Master Ali of Zembilm Zembilli rode his horse, turned it down, went and caught Sultan Selim. On a horse, before landing, he said, "Padişah, I have seen such a group, 400 people. You gave such a decree, is it true? He said it is true. It's wrong, it's not appropriate. According to his statement, I have such authority. It's not for normal times, you can't use such authority at a time like this. He said that in public, in the middle of the request of the other state. I can't give you a warrant, I can't give you a warrant, you're doing the wrong thing. In this world and in the next, the plague is upon you. He said, "He has rode and returned." Later, Yavuz Sultan Selim thought, the great padishah -- he decided it was wrong and he got his death warrant back on 400 people. Government administration is a matter that has a tradition, a logic, a mentality, that is all that needs to be done together. With decisions made in a day like this, the state shouldn't be ruled, it shouldn't be ruled. I told you this because you brought up the government size of the business. Other than that, I'll tell you about Ankara. Ankara is the capital of the Republic of Turkey. A beautiful space was reserved, breathable for Ankara, a place where Ankara was able to breathe. We destroyed it one way or another today. No one's getting in there today for security reasons. The depriving of a capital from a natural area, a historical area was a very, very big mistake, and we did that. It was a big mistake for Kent... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we did that, too, all of us. Thank you so much for listening. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0062par0175	Thank you. Yusef Basher, Yozgat MP. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0063par0179	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the MHP Group's proposal to investigate the House as a third-degree site when the Ataturk Forest Farm was first-degree natural site. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, our esteemed MP, who had spoken before me about the proposal, who had also made it the Director General of the Forest, has given us detailed information. I don't want to go back, but I want to make one particular point known, imagine that you call it the Ataturk Forest Farm, but there's a brewery; you call it the Ataturk Forest Farm; there's a cement factory; there's an Ataturk Forest Farm; there's a tractor factory. Dear friends, the place that was built as the Presidential Palace, before it became a palace, as far as I know, is a place where the Forest General Directorate's service buildings are, again, a building where the forest district managers serve, and that's where the workers use it as a housing area. So, dear friends, the Presidential Palace is now built there, it's a prestigious office of our country, and state officials from the outside are proud that such a building was built in such a beautiful area in a short time. I say, dear friends, from the moment the AK PARTI was established, the country struggled to solve all problems in Turkey, to achieve the financial development of its people, and to open the way for its spiritual greatness. In these feelings and thoughts, I say I'm against the motion made by the MHP Group, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0064par0183	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0065par0186	Request roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit05spe0064par0187	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes; there's a roll call, and I'm going to do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Earth, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Gök, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Günal, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Halaman. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Monday (16/03/2015) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The 10/963 main parliamentary research proposal for Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly's agenda was proposed in the general Assembly's 16/3/2015-day (today) merger (today) of Monday (today) of 16/3/2015 (today). The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Hasan Akgöl, Hatay MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0024	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of our party group on the Republican People's Party group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. The topic is the discussion of the problems of cotton, the Plain of Amik, the Pearl of Harran, the Pearl of Çukurova, which provides great employment. But before I start speaking, I'm quite sure that the following chairs will vote against the group of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, not knowing what to do here, not knowing what to do with what to do...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0067par0026	That's a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0027	'Cause cotton's okay, 'cause cotton's okay, 'cause cotton's okay, 'cause cotton's okay, 'cause cotton's cool, 'cause the farmer's cool. I'm sure of it, the order has come, and you'll refuse the Republican People's Party's group proposal on cotton. If one of them comes out, votes okay, says yes, I'll kiss that friend's forehead. What I'm saying here is that the cotton we produce is only 30 percent of the cotton we need. So, what happened to all the cotton? What happened when the cotton we used to produce, provided for our needs, fell so low that we became cotton importers? You have to question that.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0068par0030	Hatay must have had a pre-election!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0031	Don't check the center at Hatay, relax! Relax! What's the matter with him? He's become an importer. Is the farmer responsible? The one who planted the cotton is responsible? Look at the number of cotton manufacturers in the villages. We've lost 76 million populations? Twenty-two years ago, twenty years ago, what's the difference between a cotton-picker and a cotton-picker now? Given all that, I believe the cotton manufacturer's problems should be investigated. We said that in our 2011 election project, we said that the farmer's input costs had to be reduced. What were they? Mazot, fertilizer, the VAT would have to be reduced to 1 percent. However, we said the farmer would be competing with the outside market if his input was lowered, but who's listening? Do you care about the cotton farmer or the other farmers? You don't care. They're already doing everything in their power to stop farming. Is it so different with other products? Is it so different in olives, grapes, tobacco? They're all the same, nothing's changed. Now, a friend of mine, who belongs to power, says, "Can we, friends?" The support we gave you went from here to here. In the past, we were paying this much, and today it's gone up to this much. No one asked you for support, friends, no one asked you for support. Here's the support, play it in your head. As long as you value the product. And you don't pay for that support on time. Wheat, corn, grain, cotton... we're approaching the end of March, not a penny. These are 2014 products. The farmer still hasn't been paid to support them. After that, we're with the farmer. You say. There was a flood in Hatay. About 100,000 acres were flooded. Is this the fate of Hatay? How many floods is this? Earlier, in 2011, we said, after the flood in 2012: Check these without looking at the CKS documents, pay the farmer's losses. Where? No. Three or five farmers paid for, that's all. So, what happened this year? It's the same flood this year. Where? It's gone. There are no servants of God who even went to find him this year. How many hectares of water is left this year, and what he's done, there's no minister. He doesn't care what the farmer did. Well, isn't it on your agenda to see how the farmer's crop is, how his damage is being compensated? I gave it to him, and I asked him with a question proposal, and I said, "What are you going to do with a farmer whose crops are down in this 100,000 hectare area? Are you going to pay for the damage, or are you going to help? So, do you think you can help this farmer with a new product that needs to be planted instead of a sinking product? There's no answer because this government has given up on the farmer. If that's not enough, at least allow me to spray the area where the tractor didn't enter to spray the soil that was left in the palm of the hand, and that's gone; and the rest of the stuff dies. So we work with such a government, a government that is with such a farmer, and woe to the nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to take you back a bit. The current President -- the Prime Minister of the past -- says in a speech he made in Burma twenty-two years ago: "Is Simite 1.5 -- with the money that was then, 1,500 liras, 1,000 liras of tea; is that worth 2,500? A family of five costs 37,500 a day. If we multiply by 30 days, 1 million 125 thousand. lt's what Erdoğan is saying, and I'm not saying it. I'm talking with Erdoğan's mouth. Where's the electricity, where's the water, where's the natural gas, where's the book, where's the dress? He says, "O cruel government, where are you with this citizen?" It's 2015. A bagel's $1.50, tea's $1. A family of five costs $12.5 a month, $1.125 a month. What's the minimum wage? 950 liras. What's the difference? It's just a six-to-nothing difference. So I ask you, O government, that is what you said yesterday, and today I say to you: Where are you? This guy has no electricity, no water, no phone, no clothes? Where are you, government? I am returning to him today what Recep Erdogan said twenty-two years ago. Plus, there's a difference. Twenty-two years ago, what was the total number of populations that fit those criteria? It was between 20 and 25 percent. What time is it today? In the words of your Minister of Labor Faruk Çelik, it is 80 percent. Look, at 20 percent of the time today, 80 per cent of the term that Recep Erdogan said twenty-two years ago is one-to-one. And I say to the government from here: "O evil-doers, be with your own people. Just be with those who have brought you here." But Erdogan's chairs here are not capable of thinking about it, but can't see it. I'm not saying it's not a group, I'm not saying it's a group. If they're a group, they'll make their own free will, their own free expression.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0040	You're a chair, chair!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0041	Aren't there any farmers, cotton-pickers, tradesmen? What conscience do you have to walk out of here and answer to your constituent?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0042	We'll see, we'll see.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0043	But you have no account to pay. You're a government trying to see their hearts with the $5 in people's pockets and the $1 you give them. But this citizen will teach you one-on-one when the time comes. I'm asking you now, from here, to my friends who occupied Erdoğan's chairs...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0045	It's an invasion, what do you mean? What if we were to call you the invaders of the military... behave, behave!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0046	Are you or are you not interested in investigating the problems of cotton here, bringing them up, putting the farmer's problems on the table? We're definitely not here. You're going to say, "We're dead." There's no way you're going to say it. Let one of you come out, and I'm willing to let the cotton issues be investigated here. Let him say, let him show himself. You can't tell me that the numbers and the support are coming from here to here, that they're being paid this much. This farmer doesn't need your support, he doesn't need your support. I'm telling you to put taxes on the imported cotton from the outside, customs, cotton in the domestic market, and then release the import.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0070par0048	Whose chair are you?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0049	How many times have you been here? We never saw you on the General Assembly, and the election's coming up, so I guess you're here.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0050	Therefore, I ask that the group vote on my proposal be voted on, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0070par0051	Whose chair are you?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0052	You've never been here, have you?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0053	I'm always here.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0071par0054	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0069par0055	No, you never came.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0056	So I have a face to face with my constituent. I expect the same from you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0072par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0073par0059	Whose chair are you?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0060	I'm my own chair.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0072par0061	Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0074par0062	Mr. Speaker, I don't consider the AK PARTY group as a group, but Recep Erdoğan used a sentence like the chairs you occupied.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0066par0063	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0074par0064	For the record, I strongly condemn him for the words he used to use to lawmakers, who were elected by the people's votes, to lawmakers who worked together. In the first election, we'll see who's the congressman, who's getting where they're coming from with their votes. If he's here next semester, we'll show him. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0075par0067	Thank you. It's Onetane, Kars MP, who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0076par0071	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the CHP Group's proposal, but I will speak in your favor. I salute you all. In its early years, Turkey was a country of agriculture and livestock, and today it has been a country that has strayed from agriculture and has not recovered from the pains of the urbanization process. As we look at the 2015 figures, agricultural producer prices increased by 8.99 per cent in January, dropping by 0.72 in February. The agricultural products manufacturer's price index increased by 13.53 per cent last year. The increase in 12 months according to averages is 11.22 per cent. When we look at data from the Union of Agriculture in Turkey, agriculture is falling in employment. In November, the number of people working in agriculture was 5,180,000, while in December 5,10,000 were registered. This tells us that 170,000 people working in agriculture joined the unemployed army of 3 million 145 thousand. The People's Democratic Party has been fighting for years against the destruction of agricultural areas. However, the current government's destruction policies have a very serious impact on the agricultural sector. When we look at the country, as a country of agriculture, we've brought it to a point where it can't afford exports. According to February 2015, imports of textiles and raw materials were 9.71 billion dollars, while exports were $8.53 billion. According to the figures, the deficit from Turkey's textiles and raw materials is $1.18 billion, where production does not cover consumption. The economic system that deals with such a problem as Cari is open can ensure that 8.5 billion dollars remain in the country if the problems of agricultural producers are resolved. For this, agricultural producers, especially cotton producers, should be protected and supported. To produce, farmers from Turkey are costing 17 per cent more than farmers from the United States. At the same time, Turkey is the country where cotton is produced at the highest cost in the world. In the United States, farmers receive a bonus of.38 cents a head. Meanwhile, farmers are supported by various financial vehicles, such as low interest products pawn loans, long-term export loans and revenue protection payments in the United States. In Turkey, the bonus for direct support is 55 cents. The price of direct support, which is discussed as 80 cents in the current case, should be raised above $1, given the increase in the dollar. Again, according to the Manisa Trade Exchange report, I'd like to share some very important comparisons: the currency we paid abroad for cotton imports from 2000 until the end of 2013 is $15 billion. In this period alone, the amount of foreign currency paid to the United States is estimated at $8 billion. We also import 40 per cent of the cotton produced by Greece. As you can see from these brief data, it is clear why we are having trouble producing cotton. Dear friends, Urbana, Aydın, Diyarbakır, Hatay, Adana are among the main areas of economic activity in over 20 provinces of cotton production, particularly the provinces of İzmir. While Turkey has the advantages of these provinces, it does not transform these advantages into production, it imports cotton from countries such as Greece, the United States, Brazil, Latin American countries, Central Asia, India. Before the Civil War, Syria was one of the countries that exported cotton to Turkey. When the statistics are examined, it is not possible to understand that cotton, which is the raw ingredient in the textile industry, is so neglected. The AKP must answer to the manufacturer for carrying out such damage. When we look at cities that are the engine of cotton production, it appears that urbanization is also dense. I'm just saying that this social change is also a sign that people are being ripped out of production. I've repeatedly said that my own district, Kars..... has received the government's share of these negative policies, and once again I want to remind you that there is no agriculture and animalism in the province due to a 100 per cent increase in the price of diesel, fertilizer and seed. Most farming families can't sow. The number of animals has been reduced by 50 percent. Once again, I want to emphasize that these two areas, which are the only livelihoods of the region and the people of Kars, must be supported. I'd like to share one more point with you. In 1952, another area of employment was eliminated, not just by Kars, but by the closure of Kars Et and Fish Foundation, which contributed to agriculture and animalism in the entire region. And the plots around them were built high, so that they would not be able to operate again. The opening of this business again would be the greatest favor to the people of Kars. Dear lawmakers, farmers who strive to afford fertilizer and seed because the farmer's prices of fertilizer, diesel and seed are high are causing naturalism and production to decline. Look, compared to the data from 2002 and 2014, the production of wheat in Kars (Kas) has declined to 84,039 tonnes in 2002, with a massive decline in 2014. Again, the production of barley was 112,156 tonnes in 2002, while in 2014 it was reduced to 85,995 tonnes. I'm asking you now: The AKP government, which prides itself on agriculture and animalism policies, says in 2002, with its production in power, whether it has failed by 2014 or not, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0077par0086	Thank you. Now, it's Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who's in favor of the proposal. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0078par0090	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. We've been talking about cotton for a long time, but unfortunately, no positive steps have ever been taken about cotton. I've been on the stand here many times, and nothing's ever been done, even though I insisted that we support the cotton producer, expand cotton fields, and multiply cotton production, despite how much trouble the cotton farmer is in. You're always saying that when you come out here: "Ya, you criticize, you criticize, the solution?" We're telling you the solution, brother, it goes in your ear, it comes out your other ear. At the point of the solution, we said, "You didn't put a fund, you increased the price." We said, "You didn't raise the bonus, so you didn't do anything that had to be done so far." Look, in Çukurova, these days, if the weather gets back to normal -- it's raining -- the planting starts in a few days. So the farmer can't decide whether to plant cotton or corn. Why? Because he's waiting for the cotton bonus. It doesn't make any sense after you've established the bonus of cotton cotton cotton, after planting fields in or in other areas. You'll have to set the price now so the farmer can decide whether to plant cotton or corn. We've said many times: contribute to the Turkish farmer's world standards, do useful work, force the Turkish farmer to compete. But you're not doing any of it. Mr. Minister of Economics is here when he comes to Adana, where the farmers are meeting with the heads of the agricultural chamber, where the farmers are asking for $1.5 million in premiums with the old money, and Mr. Secretary says: "The government's offer is $550,000 last year, which is the old number, now 55 cents with the new figure. Let's find the middle of this, let's make 75 cents, which is $750,000 in the old number. But so far, there's nothing, there's no identification. Well, friend, for God's sake, set these prices, set the premiums, and the farmer will decide what to plant. Look, cotton really is an industrial plant. We pride ourselves on textile industry in our country. The textile industry in the world is competing. How will you compete with other countries if you hand over your raw materials to other countries? There's no accounting for that. So, Turkey has a climate that can produce cotton, we have a farmer who can produce cotton, we have knowledge. Çukurova used to produce enough cotton to sustain Turkey, while now only 10 per cent of Turkey's needs were met; Çukurova, look, but she met 10 per cent. Why? Because the farmer doesn't make money, he gives up cotton, he gives up bread for it, he loads it into corn every day, he loads it into other plants, and so the soil starts to become barren every day. I've said it over and over again here. Behold, I am a farmer's friend, who earns bread by the sweat of the earth; and I know how the earth is sown, and how it is planted; and I know very well how the earth is barren, and how it is evil. When Egypt is planted three years, five years in a row, it makes the soil barren, and now you have no chance of saving it, but when you plant cotton, the soil grows younger, and you can plant any product you want for a few years in a row. Now, we're looking, you're forcing the farmer to plant corn. Turkey needs 6 million tons of corn, 7 million tons, or so. It also goes, in Romania, in Ukraine, sir, they're making corn deals in different countries of the world; they're bringing 1.5 million, 2 million tons of imported corn to Turkey, 9 million tons, 10 million tons. Now, how will the farmer earn money when Turkey needs 5-6 million tons? So the corn won't be worth anything. And when it's not worth the industry, and it's not worth enough, it's going to hurt the farmer's corn, but if some cotton, some corn is added, we'll need cotton, and we'll need corn. Therefore, because there are no more, the farmer will have earned money. Unfortunately, while we're doing the math, there's no movement from the government so far. Come on, let's raise the cotton's premium support. The previous year, see, in 2013 the farmer sold the cotton for $1,800,000 in old money last year for $1,200,000 in old money, as he went into 2015. You know, he's always bragging about where your government is from. Look, I'll give you an example: The farmer who buys 1 kilo of cotton and 3 kilograms of fertilizer in 2002 is unfortunately not able to buy 1 kilo of cotton and 1 kilo of fertilizer at the moment, my friends. That's where you're going, where you're going with the farmer's situation. It's diesel, hakiza. With the figures at the time, the farmer can buy a gallon of diesel with 1 kilo of cotton, which is now unfortunately, with 3 kilos of cotton, he can only get 1 litre of diesel. This is where you brought the farmer. Guys, look, I'm telling you again: if we want to improve Turkish industry -- sir, this fabric industry, this silk industry -- we need to develop cotton. Pamuk is also a product that provides employment, which is one of the most jobs in Turkey today, cotton. It's got digging, it's got collecting, sir, it's got fumigation, it's all labor. But since cotton business is over, unfortunately, Çukurova is now being uploaded to corn or different products, and the farmer is no longer able to make money from them. As a result, the farmer's condition becomes increasingly difficult. Look, we can't sell planes to the world, we can't sell ships, sir, I don't know, we can't sell cars -- we sell cars as intermediaries -- so we're a country with no heavy industry. What are we going to sell out? We'll sell it to a citrus, sell tomatoes, sell peppers, sell eggplants, sell cotton, sell wheat. But unfortunately, look, when our land is available, when our people are available, when we know how to plant, sew, harvest, we import wheat from the outside, we import cotton from the outside. We are now one of the largest cotton importers in the world. Why don't we do it, bro? Come on, I'll understand if we're selling airplanes, if we're selling missiles, if we're making nuclear warheads, I'll understand, so we can't even sell cotton, we're buying cotton from the outside.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0079par0098	We'll do those, too.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0078par0099	You'll do a lot of things, Recep... anyway, don't make me talk now, stop. You wouldn't understand. Now, look, there's been no decision to raise bonuses, and the premium support of the previous year hasn't been paid. Look, it's time to plant cotton, it's time to plant corn, the farmer's gonna get his seed, sir, he's gonna get his diesel, he's gonna get his fertilizer, but so far there's no word from the support. Guys, look, this farmer is not a stepchild. When we want something to do with the farmer, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economics or the treasure says: "It brings burdens. Whether this farmer is the only one in this country or the extra burden, brother! So the 1,100-bedroom palace is not an additional burden, sir, I don't know, the dollars stored in shoe boxes are not an additional burden, sir, but the interest paid to them brings additional burdens to the farmer whenever we want. The people who make it with their foreheads, the farmers, let them bring some additional loads. But every time you say that, you avoid it. Now, friends, once again the fertilizer prices start in October, all of a sudden there's an increase of $300, $400. What if the fertilizer saves 800 lira? Why does it go up to $1,200,000 when my brother starts planting corn? Why doesn't this government take precautions? Why doesn't he take precautions in the free market or by subsidizing himself or revitalizing the fertilizer factories? So yesterday, just a month ago, what we call ί3-15 fertilizers, or what we call base fertilizers, which are called ί20-20, is now $850, which is now $1,250. There's a 400 lira difference. Whose pocket is this coming out of? It's coming out of the Turkish farmer's pocket. I mean, every time I say here, I'm suggesting that you take precautions, in case you do it like this, but this goes in your ear, it comes out of your ear. Why? Your salt is dry, brother, your salt is dry. You don't have a problem with the farmer, you don't have an account, you don't have a book. You have learned the way to earn money, so let the farmer do what he has to do. There is no account for whether he is dead or bankrupt or able to provide for the children of his children. But from there, and even from what you say, we'll do it as if you're making fun of the farmer, and we'll do it. Like that, you say things like that without understanding. It's inappropriate, guys. It's inappropriate. Farmers, the people who bring the most delicious food to your table, the people who make them. It's our job to protect this farmer. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0080par0105	Thank you. Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç is the MP of Adana. Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0081par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. I hereby salute your grand delegation, our valued citizens, our farmers, our cotton producers, all of our workers who work in cotton production. AS AK PARTY, we act on our vision of becoming a strong country, a party that leads to change and transformation. In this vision, we have tried to serve our nation in every field for nearly 13 years since we came to power on November 3, 2002. Praise be to God, in the time we've left behind, we've done some really important service to our nation, and we haven't been ashamed of our nation. In that time, we tried to fulfill all of our promises, and we will continue to bring them. Every promise we made has been fulfilled to this day, and our nation has shown in all elections. In fact, over the course of thirteen years, we have done so in many areas -- in the field of education -- by solving many chronicized problems. With change in health and transformation, we have developed a solution to the problems of our citizens, and in this framework, we have become a model country in the world. We've always considered it a debt to serve our citizens with the work we've done in the field of justice, the work we've done in transportation, the work we've done in law enforcement, social government, and the investments we've done, and we've done that, and we've done that. Of course, the work we do in agriculture is also really important when you look at it in this framework. Our country's agriculture has been the head of the sectors that live and live at the fastest in the transformation and transformation of Turkey through reforms that have been implemented. Of course, one of the major products of this industry is cotton. Our friends who got out before us did a lot of evaluations on cotton, said a lot of things. There's a lot of data here on cotton, and we can share it, but I don't think it's very reasonable to share that data on this bench. Because during the time that I've been on this bench for about four years, these data have been shared at various times, but each time, research proposals, group proposals, have been tried to be included in the Parliament's agenda. Of course, cotton is one of the most important products in the world, not only in Turkey, but in the world; it is also a very important raw material in chemistry, bait industry and other areas, especially in the textile sector. I don't think it's a good enough assessment of this raw material, just in terms of production or the harvest product. Because, looking at it, in the 1970s, Turkey was a country that exported cotton products as a raw material. But when we use this cotton as raw material and look at its exports as a product of raw materials, we see that there is no such pen. But we've all seen how well the cotton industry is at the stage where the textile industry has arrived today, and how well the work that our citizens have done in this framework is seen as appropriate. Of course, when we looked at the speakers before us, especially when our friend who gave the group advice asked for support of the group's proposal, he made several assessments, but I also saw that they accepted that what he said was absolutely true, that those who said that what he didn't have in mind was wrong, that those who said no to the motion were against the cotton manufacturer, the cotton manufacturer, the cotton manufacturer, the cotton manufacturer. We never accept this mindset. We'll continue to look for the truth in the society's decision, as always. The research commissions are doing really important work, but it has to be well known that our ministers and ministries in the EC PARTI governments are also working in a way that does not search for research commissions in studies that are really related to their field of duty. The EC PARTY is well aware of the needs of society. In every field, have you solved every problem? If you say, we can't solve it, we have flaws, but you can also appreciate that it's not possible to solve 90 years of accumulated problems in 13 years. But it has to be well known that the AK PARTY, which has so far solved the needs of our nation, will then continue to address these problems, the needs. Again, the only party that will solve our nation's problems is the AK PARTY. There have been various assessments, especially in the scope of the assessments said by our first friend: I think it would be helpful to say that all of our fellow MPs in the EC PARTY group should know that they are honored and proud to serve with our founder, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister Ahmet Davoglu, as well as our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In this framework, the Republican People's Party group proposal says we're against it, we're going to vote against it, because of the intensity of our agenda, we're going to talk about it, and then I don't think the group's proposal should be brought up under the laws that will meet our nation's needs, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0082par0122	I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0083par0125	We want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit06spe0082par0126	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Akkar, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Light, Mr. Kalayci, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Cloud and Mr. Serindağ. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Group Deputy President Bilgöl MP İdris Baluken. We will begin talks on whether the Council of Gensor (11/46) will be launched on behalf of Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz (11/46) on the basis of his claim that the development plan and strategies will not be carried out and that he will not support the KOBİs enough and that he is setting the ground for environmental, economic and social problems. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed and read in the 72nd Union of the General Assembly, dated 9/3/2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now I'm reading the names of the members who have been spoken: Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP; Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Party Group; Adil Zozani on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Rahmi Küreli on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İzmir MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Cahit Bağcı, Çorum MP and Minister of Development. He now has the say, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP on behalf of the motion holders. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0084par0016	Mr. President, we've submitted a motion to make a motion on Mr. Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz, especially because of his job as a member of the People's Democratic Party in the process of establishing development plans and strategies. I believe it's his first gene, isn't it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0085par0017	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0084par0018	This is the first time you've been nationalized! The economic questions are very important for Turkey's future, because then there is the Minister of Economy, and then there is Deputy Prime Minister Babacan, who is also in charge of economic co-ordination. In particular, we would like to point out that the development of a country is a work planned for the participation of the state's relevant institutions, jointly with the ruling and opposition parties. However, when it comes to energy during the EC PARTI administrations, when it comes to water, when it comes to development, it is clear that opposition has been excluded in all of these economic ministries, and that the resources, the resources that have been transferred have been changed, especially over 190 times in the Law of Ihale, and that development, which has been targeted as a result, has been given to secondary employers, contractors, and the economy has not been able to improve. I want to make it clear to you, from a very simple indicator to the Minister of Development that Project GAP is a huge project, a 40-year project, my friends. Among these huge projects, which now cover 48 per cent of Turkey's HES electricity, the first goal was irrigation, my friends. The watering of 1 million 782 hectares of land, from the Plain of Harran, from Bozova, Suruç, from Ceylanpınar, from Viranşehir to Kızıltepe, Mardin Ovası, from there, from there to Turkey, we want to make it very clear that an area of water was watered down to Idil, Cizre and Silopi, and it was a terrible agricultural industry that watering would bring up, a development model, and here, one of the world's largest projects that affected the future of Turkey, we want to express to the GAP Project, one of which is one of the largest projects in the world -- very clear -- we want to express that there was a ten-year-old-year-old area that had been divided from the region, which had been divided by 32 percent of the watering, which had not been done by 27%, and that was the right around 27% -- Now, really, I want to make it very clear to you that the GAP area covers a area of 75,358 square miles [75,358 km], and during the global crisis, the projects that will fly Turkey, the agricultural industry, the agricultural industry, the employment area that will bring great comfort to the unemployed army, and the great investments can be developed, although there are now nine provinces, Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Gaziantep, Kilis, Şırnak, Mardin, and Siirt provinces -- despite the fact that there have been no serious decisions on the issue, despite the fact that there have been no electricity being done in Mardin, Şanlıurfa, and other areas. Now, we're asking: what happened to the money you put underground and spent on the irrigation system to store it? Why didn't the tenders you gave me in pieces happen on time? Why didn't agriculture, irrigation improve in the desired planning? By 2014, only 17.3 per cent of the irrigation project was completed, and why can only 20 per cent of 1.8 million hectares of land be watered during your 13 years of power? Unfortunately, the region's share of the illegal national product is far below the Turkish average. Let him go, when you think that the biggest unemployment rate is in this region -- Batman, Mardin, Siirt, Şırnak, Adıyaman -- is that when you think that the most green card holders are in Şanlıurfa, we see that none of the government's investments, GAP projects, except to go to Şanlıurfa and get votes. Why do we see it, why do we understand it? Because that's the way it is, when it comes to failure, choices come. When the elections come, an attack begins. Prime Minister Davutoglu has announced this attack as a "GAP Action Plan" (GAP Action Plan) in Mardin. The 40-year-old GAP Plan was named after the new Southeast Project GAP Action Plan (2014-2018). To fit a 40-year project into four years and water all the fields in four years... The whole basic mission is to maintain the sustainability of the GAP development process, not increase the watering rate, but increase it to 1.1 million hectares. Guys, don't you know books? You did, and in thirteen years, you were able to water 20 percent of it. Come on, you've raised 1 million 782 hectares to 300,000 hectares... 1.1 million hectares of irrigation and 26 billion liras to pay for it. Isn't 32 billion dollars enough? Where'd it go, $32 billion? Where did the money from the unemployment fund go? Why isn't water flowing in Viranşehir? Why is the citizen of the Plain of Mardin still drawing water from the underworld with electricity? You're watering it with electricity and creating a situation that's more expensive than its cost production. Don't you have a conscience? There's a political bill for failure that doesn't spend 32 billion on the plains of Mardin. Friends, there's a political price to pay. Now, the Prime Minister gets up, he tells dreams, he tells pink stories, the New GAP Project. He says things to solve the new project for 40 years and the 26 billion dollars he's going to spare for all of this. These are unacceptable things. By excluding local governments, excluding universities, excluding the public, disregarding the public's information, referendum, giving the money from Ankara's headquarters to supporters who are opening water channels underground. You can't fool anyone by saying that. In the plains of Mardin, the yellow ears are forming, and the people are asking for the answer. You can't get votes for him in those areas, you can't get votes where the water doesn't go. That's why we gave him such a question. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We hope you learn from it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0086par0028	Thank you. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0087par0032	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unfortunately, we're talking about development, we're talking about economics, but infertile disputes, completely locked on political agendas, holoboat fights, keep the agenda busy. Right now, we're talking about a bag of laws on the commission, asking for more than two hours of concrete questions, no answers, no general manager of the relevant institution. I don't understand what kind of law enforcement, what kind of technology, what kind of work it is, Minister. There's the Department of Development; there's no development, there's a name. There's a plan, no apps. There's a plan of action, no action. Yeah, we're asking concrete questions for over two hours -- very concrete -- I'm telling you, it's going on now, I'm coming back from there -- there's no Director General of the Anadolu Agency; we're still waiting, the Director of Human Resources is coming. What kind of a thing is that? Well, you're disregarding the House, disregarding the commission. Congress has become a place where only a few political things are being removed. What's the economy? What's progress? Health itself... Mr. President and his several consultants, one of whom is jelly, run the economy without asking anyone, know all kinds of things. What kind of business is that, Minister? The DPT's up, I'm calling it the Utterly DPS, where friends don't pay attention. There was no institution left, there was no law... there was a place of the DPT... where the Minister -- friends might be saying -- he had a desk there, and those experts would come there.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0088par0037	The DPT was above the ministries.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0087par0038	I mean, now that it's up there, we can't get eyes on anything. Is that even possible? Our friends may need it, but I'm telling the Minister: look, there was a sign of the DPT. It was on top of all the ministries, they would come and make a statement about everything, and once the law would go there, there's no such thing left. We've talked over and over again, and there are a lot of laws about the fundamental dynamics of development. I'm asking you: how many transformation programs have you announced, good; you've explained them to the Prime Minister in 3 packages, you've said 1,200, it's 1,400 -- it's not that ridiculous -- how many of them have you done? How many months have we been doing it? What arrangements have been made, and what has been done about them? There's nothing there. So, there's no time left to implement them from making a priority transformation program, action plan. Dear friends, can such a thing happen? So, what do the people in the economy have to do to solve problems? Mr. Secretary is here in the first place. They're fighting each other, he's banging her, he's saying something else, Mr. President gets mad at all of them, then he picks them up like this, weird meetings. Is there such an economy, such a sense of governance, such development? So, one day you say that those who raise these interest rates, those who don't drop them, are traitors. You meet after two days, and they explain as if nothing had happened. There's a lot of ministers in charge of the economy, but none of them can sit down and talk to the other, there's a meeting of the Economic Co-ordination Board, two of the four ministers in the Economic Co-ordination Board have gone this way, Erdogan became a gasser, or rather the other one has gone this way, Gulçı has become a brakeman. Two of them are up, the other two are accused of being an interest lobby and taking sides with Mr. Erdogan. In a dispute like this... And how will those problems be resolved, Minister? Came in, called a meeting, interestingly enough. So I opened it. You know, the 130-page presentation of our President of the Central Bank. Mr. President says, "They've already had dessert, so we've got dessert," he says. I don't get it, how it's settled! How can a charge of treason be sweetened? Has the interest fallen? He didn't fall. We don't know. The Board of Money Policy got together and made a decision? He didn't. Well, I don't understand what he did, who apologized to who. For him, I say, "Is such a government possible? " Now, here he says economic improvements. Look, the summary of the presentation presented by Mr. Babacan and Mr. President of the Central Bank is that, Mr. President, this is not an economy with what this Jell-O consultant is saying. ▪ 1) Approval Developments 4) Investors of Investment. • What does that mean? By God, brother, the courtship is already growing abroad. There's also a problem with foreign trade. We have a cari deficit, we need to finance it. They've set up inflation and interest indicators behind it, and they say, "We're not going to get interest until inflation falls." We don't expect a drop in inflation due to the increase in the ribbon. As a matter of fact, we've published the expectation survey. We also expect high inflation at the end of the year. Now let me read you the interesting part, without going into detail. I mean, I'll tell you who taught who, who sweetened who. Sources of investment say in two titled presentations, saying: "Inland: Trust and Individual Retirement Funds." Out of the country: Trust and Investment Funds. I mean, hot money, our current deficit funders. Now, he wrote it first. They're very calm, insinuated. And then, I say, like the presentation, the positive: trust and stability. Negative: Obstructions. Let's take a bottom note if you like: Mr. Babacan speaks at the economic summit in Uludağ, but there are sources of interest, but in part the debates within us said very kindly -- and the arguments within us may have caused this to rise a little bit. So he's talking to the government within himself and the president's minister about the discussions he's had with his own ministers. And then what did he say? And now for the part that concerns Mr. Minister, the non-interest makers of investments. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and What else? There will be an additional increase in investment trends in this way. He says that you are the source of that negativity, that you are the source of that instability. So, what happens now? When the Oslo talks came out, there was an argument about the honor, and now there's a debate about the traitor, so that's going to be left in the middle, too? Who's the traitor? If not, how did they settle it? I wonder if Mr. President apologized to Mr. Prime Minister and Babacan. There's no such thing as an explanation. We sit down, we talk, we talk again when we need to. There can't be that kind of administration. If we go with the two counselors' thing, which is a little bit more specific, I'd say the nose with the jelly doesn't survive the crisis. Mr. President has to mind his own business, just like he said -- he has to leave it to the Central Bank, the concerned ministers. But, as I've just stated, we're looking at ministers in different places; we're looking at the Minister of Economics, and he says something else, and we've come up with a plan of action on the other side. What's our priority? Why is it rising? I just gave you the headlines from the Federal Reserve presentation. Why do we need it? We have an external trade deficit, and as a result, we have a current deficit, so our savings are insufficient. How do we increase the savings? We'll do it by increasing production. So, if these guys fight each other like this... what's the last thing we said about structural reform? It means taking out the necessary legal arrangements. So, who's going to make the necessary legal arrangements? The House will take it out. Who's going to prepare it? The ministers will prepare it, present it to the Council of Ministers. But let's just say that Mr. Secretary prepared, even when he wasn't the Minister -- for example, how many times have we talked about public-private partnership here, and he hasn't even been to the Council of Ministers yet, he's been waiting since 2008-2009. What's a structural adjustment? Here's the sample of the supply system that Mr. Çalayan, our former Minister of Economics, whom you all laundered, told us during his time. There's still nothing there. What is it? It's about encouraging domestic property, domestic inputs, intermediary property, for example. So, what do you do about it, anything? We're working, we're detecting, we're inventory, we're looking at it, we're looking at it. Now, fellas, what are we supposed to sit down and look at about this? What goods, how much imported input do we use in our production? Now, from 2006 to 2014, when we looked at the ratio of the product and the raw materials, it went from 71 to 73 percent. We're looking, there's a decline in investment property, and the consumer goods are pretty much the same. So, after these developments, the inputs that we import from the outside are increasing in the opposite direction. We've been talking about this for four or five years. No structural measures have been taken yet, and no action has been taken. Look, I've told you over and over again, the office where he was Minister of the Minister, he was doing it when he was DPT, and now he's doing it. We've had a development plan here. I mean, it's been the third year, it's been almost two years. It was two years ago, wasn't it, Minister, I remember, in the spring of 2003?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0089par0049	Middle moon.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0087par0050	Well, in a month or two, it'll be two years in May. The Prime Minister had to say something about the economy until the election. They're giving it to the Prime Minister, the first, the second, the third, the third. In 2013, we write the primary programmes for the Development Plan, and then we write down the measures below it. We take new measures. What have we done since 2013? That's why I'm telling you, what's coming out now? If we had these... let me read you something here from one of them... about what I just said. There is a chapter on foreign trade; for example, I would like to read a passage from the Special Commission's Report on Foreign Affairs: ▪Politic and Discretion Proposals: First, Money and Credit Policys." he says. The following are the measures to be taken on foreign trade. It also says the missing ones here, and it also says the suggestions: the current incentive system, the input supply system (SCEES), the choice of strategic sectors in the future about reducing the current account deficit -- rather than the continuity of existing structures -- must also be determined in the future. In Turkey's industrialisation policies to reduce the use of imported input in industrial production, unlike traditional import-addition policies, high-end or high-tech inputs to import entries should be intended to be produced in Turkey as alternative to high-end or high-tech products. These are the same sentences that the Nationalist Movement Party has proposed in 2011 and 2007, aimed at boosting industrial employment in industry, in terms of production, investment policies. So, who's gonna make it happen? Well, our friends have worked, they've worked, they've worked, they've worked in college, they've worked in bureaucracy, they've worked in the private sector, they've written, they've written, they've talked about. Who's going to make it happen? The government. What does it say in the Special Development Commission Report, under the leadership of the Ministry of Development? New investments should be provided with a certain amount of domestic input, state support and incentives for the fulfillment of certain export rates and similar goals. Who's gonna do the app? The government will bring it in, make a decision, and we'll make a law here. By the decision of the Council of Ministers, by the decision of the Council of Ministers, we will remove what has happened with the law. What are we dealing with? Right now, we're still up there dealing with a bag of laws to pass a few nonessential substances, and the Internal Affairs Commission is sort of discussing the withdrawals, and a few of our friends at the General Assembly are listening, and we're not counting what happens next when there's a vote. Now, the most important problem in the country is the development problem, or rather the problem of development, the problem of not growing up, the Minister of Development, which has been discussed; our friends will only come to say, "Don't accept this geneor in the vote." Now, how does that work? So with that logic, with that understanding, how do we solve this, guys? Obviously, the solution proposals suggest that strategic products should be determined as well as strategic sectors. We're looking, even the sector has not been determined. Why? Because we have a strange incentive policy, which is that our incentive system is packaged, supported by nearly 50 boroughs. Yeah, we've said over and over again that this isn't how the Tuvvik system works; we need to implement a narrow district, sectoral, even borough-based incentive system. Otherwise, we can't increase this production, and we can't reduce unemployment if we can't actually increase production. TÜİK reduces unemployment in certain ways, manages it with a change of M.O., but again, it turns out to be 10.9 in November. I mean, 10 years ago, it was 10.3, Mr. Secretary, even after the crisis. You know, you said the unemployment rate was 9.9 yesterday, but... Now, what I'm curious about is that they're taking this as an average of three months. I'd appreciate it if the Minister would enlighten us: October, November, December; he gave us the average of the year at 9.9 because it was over. So, November, December, January -- the middle point of the month -- was 10.9, what's the impact on the year? Then it's past 9.9. So, we changed the calculation because the calculation is the average of three months, the middle of the month, and the media in the middle of the month. I mean, the number of December is now 10.9, right? 10.9. So the unemployment rate isn't 9.9%.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0089par0052	Middle moon.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0087par0053	Well, here's the middle month, so I'm just saying you need to put in the middle month. Of course, we've already gotten used to some of the practices, some of the definition changes, of that TÜİK. Although the government may not be able to reduce its unemployment by altering some survey methods, it reduces unemployment to one point, but reduces unemployment to another, and remains in the 10 per cent. I'm just saying, Mr. Minister, without changing this system, without the necessary structural measures -- and Mr. Babacan told him about it -- I'm telling the President that as a result of this -- production doesn't increase, investment doesn't increase, exports don't increase; if imports don't increase, you need hot money to cover the gap; and you can't reduce interest when you need hot money, because you know that if your inflation comes up, you have no chance of giving five interest, and you know that there's no chance of giving five interest. But there's a noise coming out of every head, because there's a cockatoo in the economy, unfortunately, you can't tell what anybody's saying. One day we can sit down with what we say. That's not an understanding. So, what's to be done? For one thing, there's got to be a co-ordination in the economics administration to distract this confusion, but if the people inside the Economic Co-ordination Board are fighting each other, if one of them lies in the morning, and the other one lies in another meeting an hour later, and the President is all over it, how do we do it? So, we don't expect you to do that anymore, the elections are already coming. Hopefully, under a powerful Ministry of Economics in the power of the National Movement, we are going to build an economic facility, where all institutions are united, co-ordinating, which supports production, investment, high-tech, high-end, strategic products and strategic sectors, which supports real-efficiency, and supports real-estate production with a sectoral narrow-sized incentive system, not only on the basis of exports. But, unfortunately, that's not on your agenda. Hopefully, what we're saying is that after June 7th, we're going to do the 2023 goals that you've pointed out, with strong economic management in the power of the National Movement, with the transition to the economy that produces them. And I can't invite the Minister to be sensitive about these things anymore because they've never listened to anything we've said about anything so far, they've ignored the opposition. So, we don't expect anything from your government anymore, it's already gone, our institution is dead, and I'm saying that the government will probably be dead until the next thing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit07spe0090par0058	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz (11/46) whether Gensori Öngress (principle of Gensor) is on the agenda. The government is in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adil Zozani, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0007	Mr. President, the 26th term may be Şırnak, now Hakkari.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0090par0008	Correction, Hakkari MP, but it's written here.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0009	I didn't write it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0092par0010	So he'll be running from Şırnak.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0011	In the 26th century, I hope.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0092par0012	Let's go!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a promise on the gene we have made against Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, the Minister of Development. I salute you all. Now, Mr. Secretary, he might rightly ask a question, and he might say, "What if I didn't do anything? Why was I given this gene against me? Why was I given this gene for me?" He might find it difficult to understand his purpose. But the answer to your question is already in there. Mr. Secretary, we've given you the benefit of the doubt because he didn't really do anything. Now, imagine a ministry that has done a five-year development program of the state, does development sequences and so on, and so on, and so on, and so forth, but no predictions of the development of the country come true, none of its predictions have been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, most of you may be in the eyes of the ranks at this moment, perhaps the ten-year Development Programme, which the government brought up last year, but you certainly have. In regard to this development program, within a year, the government was wrong in almost all its predictions. Less than a year later, the five-year Development Programme was reviewed. The changing Prime Minister has announced that this programme has been revised. Turns out you didn't see it coming from the first year. In fact, as we approach the end of the 24th term, I think there's a joke about the fact that these genes are particularly relevant to the Development and Economic Ministry these days. Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz shouldn't even be sitting here alone. That's basically what we're saying about all of the government's ministries in charge of the economy. Because this government, or rather the AK PARTY governments, has managed to reach a point with Kemal Dervis' policies, which they have taken over from the 57th government. They managed the revision program that Kemal Dervis had put in front of them, but the capital is over, and now it's falling. Therefore, because they did not put anything on what they took over at 57, that capital is now exhausted and falling back. Therefore, Mr. Ali Babacan, who is not only the Minister of Development but also the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, should also be sitting here; Mr. Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Finance, should also be sitting here; at the same time, Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci, should also be sitting here; Customs and Trade Minister Nurettin Canikli, Mr. Nurettin Canikli should be sitting here; Science Industry and Technology Minister Fikri İl Bey should also be sitting here because this reflects the total ration of all of this. It's such a great failure that markets at the President's level are being speculated to ensure the flow of foreign capital from abroad to abroad. Look, everyone just thinks the President's mad at him because the Central Bank isn't downloading interest, and he's developing politics over him, but it's not. Look, the President-level markets in Turkey are being speculated, especially through foreign capital, in order to ensure that it does not escape Turkey's markets, or, in part, the hot money in Turkey's market, which is likely to come. Mr. Nihat Zeybekci has explained, he has confessed, in fact Mr. Zeybekci's statement. What did he say, Mr. Zeybekci? Just two days ago, in an explanation, he said: "The overvaluement of the TLL is a problem in terms of markets. When the TL was overvalued, an intervention was needed. How were they going to do that intervention? The easiest vehicle was the president speculating the market. The president speculated the market and the exchange went up. However, something came up that they didn't calculate, and it was incalculable. What was that? The U.S. Central Bank called back the dollar in the world market, withdrew it; the government's estimated value decline was four to five points higher. In fact, the dollar was estimated around 2,300, and behind closed doors they had done such a calculation, but this sudden move by the Central Bank of the United States has dropped them into the void, rising to $2.70, going back and forth between 2,60 and 2,70, and now they can't find a solution. What could the Minister of Development do in the meantime, what should he do? Look, for one thing, those who are rich in currency and market speculation have lost nothing, those who invest in currency have lost nothing, but the poor have lost a lot. The Ministry of Development's priority is to maintain a certain balance in the development program at home, to eliminate the inequality between the regions; it could do so. The Ministry of Development, however, has never even been able to make such an effort, let it be exploited for a specific region of some parts of Turkey. Look, everyone works in Turkey, people work in 7 regions of Turkey, each region of Turkey has its own sources of development, but all of these resources are used as a priority for the development of one region. What area is it? In the Marmara area. Now, imagine that a minister who couldn't nail his own province, who didn't even do a damn thing for the development of his own province, can't expect him to contribute to the development of Turkey. Obviously, we don't expect that. Because the difference between the development of the minister's elected province of Bingol and Istanbul is 9 times the share of the illegal national product. Now they're giving average data with TİK data, computing through the average data. Turkey is estimated at $10,500 per person's share of non-national revenues. Before, the counties were being calculated. Mr. Secretary, when you speak here, we ask you to share the data with us in the provinces. Istanbul is at $27,800, and Bingol is at $3,500. If there's any misinformation, please correct it from here, and if I'm giving you false information, please correct it from here. So, one of our citizens from Istanbul or Istanbul is getting public service from more than nine other citizens, including roads, water, electricity, health care, education, and so on; 9 times more services. Mr. Secretary has nothing to do with this place. Since these governments came to power, you've always said 2002. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to explain the order in which Diyarbakır was placed as of the average development of the year 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0093par0025	TECHNIC's data...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0026	In the 1920s, Diyarbakir ranked third in Turkey's development ranking.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0093par0027	In the 1920s?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0028	He was ranked third in the 1920s. When the Minister arrives here, let him explain the order where Diyarbakır is today.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0093par0029	It's a good spot for ten years ago.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0030	He'll explain ten years ago, and he'll explain today. I'll explain today, Mr. Secretary, ten years ago. Today, Diyarbakir is ranked 73. Where's 3? Where's 73? Did Diyarbakır count in place and the others run too fast? If you take the source from Diyarbakır province and spend it for Istanbul, Diyarbakır will count it in its place.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0093par0032	They say he's going from there to there.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0033	Ha. Look, I'll give you two more data. You love the GAP area so much, you're very expressive. I won't go in too soon to not take up too much time, but there are two important explanations for the Gap. There are two separate explanations for the current President in 2008, then Prime Minister Erdogan and today's Prime Minister Mr. Davutoglu. Here, compare it. Well, you may forget early, but I assure you, we have a very powerful archive and memory, and we don't forget. Whatever Erdogan said in 2008, Davutoglu said the same thing in 2014. It's not a barley-sized road. The GAP Project in the GAP region in 2008 is 13.5 per cent, and now 17.28 per cent. There's more solid data in the government, so if I'm wrong by a point or two, Mr. Secretary will correct it, but that's the truth. What did you do? Within five years, the GAP Project was ending, Mr President Erdogan called it Prime Minister at the time. In five years, we ended up creating jobs for 5 million people. Davutoglu explains, but you know what the difference is? The only difference is, he says, "We're finishing up in the coming period, and we're creating jobs for 3,800,000 people. Since the government... is beautiful in terms of employment, 3,800,000 people, easy to say, is the population of a country. Send them, if you have them, send them out of work, and let them apply immediately, and let them apply for them, if they have them, and send them to the unemployed. The government has promised to hire 3,800,000 people, but don't take my offer seriously and direct your unemployed young people into the area immediately, and you'll be in a state of silence. Look, here's what I'm talking about, unemployment rates in the provinces. The government says about 10.9 per cent of unemployment, I'm telling the Diyarbakır official figures, the current, official number-25 per cent, Batman 26.5%; Siirt 27.2 per cent; Mardin 27.9 per cent; Şanlıurfa, 28.5 per cent; unemployment rates. Look, that's what the Minister was about. He's going down, he's going down, he's going down, he's going down, he's going down. Now, it's come to a point where the numbers that the government can't even cover up are somehow telling us the truth. We'd expect that, you know, when every politician who's become a natural expectant, when he's a minister of politics, he'll have a expectation that he'll first take advantage of his own constituency, of the area he's come from.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0094par0037	It didn't pass?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0038	Look, do you know what happened to Mr. Yilmaz? He allowed executives at the University of Bingol to live in pleasure or condone it, in some way.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0094par0039	What do you mean?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0040	Look, the University of Bingol has been debated here for ten days, over and over again, the students of the University of Bingol have gone on hunger strike; has anyone heard a word, a statement, a statement, a statement?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0095par0041	Of course you did. You didn't hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0091par0042	Maybe on this occasion, he'll have an explanation when he gets here because we said so. But it didn't. So, I've just given you unemployment data. Is it different from the cities I've listed just now? Unemployment is over 30 per cent. In relation to these figures, Mr. Minister has all the data that TÜİK (TİK) has been prepared and presented to the government in private. It's not shared with us, and TİK doesn't put that data on the site. We're asking with questions, they're not responding. It's our call to the Minister to explain all this data here. It's our call to the Minister to explain to him what the level of health-related or interregional use is here. Look, the incentive packs are being organized all the time. The application, which took the least advantage of the incentive practices in the seven regions of Turkey, includes the East and Southeastern regions, one in 7, one in 7.5 per cent. Mr. Secretary's area has received 5% of the incentive investments. Then they created a great incentive program. At the level of use of the awesome incentive program -- they did it on the six regional axis, they did it in six categories -- again, the Minister's district is unfortunately last. Let's call it a challenge! If there's a mistake here, you can explain it to the public, share it, and we'll know it, but all the data we've given you on the rankings is official data from the state. Look, if you put investments in all of Turkey on top of each other, it doesn't find the investments the government has only envisioned for Istanbul, and it doesn't respond. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Even this data requires a minister's resignation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0096par0050	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Rahmi Türeli is with İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0097par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I find that the People's Republican People's Party has made a commitment to express its views on the motion on the geneorial motion given by Peoples' Democratic Party Minister Cevdet Yilmaz. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. Secretary, isn't this your first motion for a gene?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0098par0057	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0097par0058	Yes, here, of course, the Ministry of Development, formerly known as the State Planning Agency, is an important institution, one of the most important institutions in Turkey. An economic and social ministry of Turkey's economy, which includes economic, social, cultural sectors, plans macros for this, and under it displays sectoral, regional perspectives on the future. That's why he performs important tasks. So, of course, I think the prestige of the documents prepared by the Ministry of Development is very important to us. There are development plans; medium-term programs, annual programs, same investment programmes, and many sectoral and regional documents. Of course, I think it's an important question, of course, what purpose set is included in these documents, where Turkey is planned to come and go with the economic, social life of Turkey, where it's supposed to come and go, and how the purpose set is created, what tools are being used, what goals are being achieved, and what goals are not achieved, and it will determine your performance as the Ministry of Development. And from that point of view, there's obviously no bright picture. In general, we see that both the goals and the goals that exist in this prepared macroeconomic planning have gone very seriously astray. Of course, I understand that we're not just focused on specific goals, specific goals. These, after all, are prepared under certain assumptions. If that set of assumptions, which is the basis for the preparation of these, changes the assumption set, of course, those numbers can also change. But there's a transformation that these numbers point to, so there's an obligation to ensure structural transformation of the Turkish economy. In this regard, unfortunately, the period of AKP rulings approaching thirteen years has been very negatively shaped, and in this sense, serious question marks. Now, a development strategy is important. The development strategy contains a number of substrate strategies under itself and has specific goals. What is it? For example, it is important to ensure a healthy and sustainable growth. It's based on growth policies. Increased employment and prevention of unemployment are also important: control of inflation, correcting revenue distribution and eradication of poverty, reducing regional imbalances. Now, look, I'm looking at these, and I'm looking at five of the five goals that I've just reached, and unfortunately there's no improvement during the AKP period, the opposite is worsening and Turkey's existing problems are heavy. There's no healthy and sustainable growth. We know that growth is accelerating at certain intervals, that there are two years, three years in a row, that the economy is in crisis, and that there are real contractions. This is a problem in the economy of Turkey because it's an economy from the past because it's an externally dependent economy, because it's an economy that's in need of its current transactions and it needs to be financed, and if you look at it from this angle, of course, there could be fluctuations. But what's important is that the economy of Turkey needs an average growth rate of 6 per cent today, such as 7 per cent. Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, after the crisis, after 2008-09, there was a growth in 2010-2011, there was a growth increase in growth, but then 2012, partly in 2013 and 2014, growth was officially halted. Homeland demand's contribution to growth is almost zero. Growth is all about net exports. It's like this: not from export growth, but from the decline of imports because in the Turkish economy, both production and exports are seriously dependent on imports, so when the economy grows, imports explode, and when the economy shrinks, the need for imports decreases. And as a result, once again, net exports have contributed to growth. Of course, in 2012, we saw how gold exports affected it. Back then, you know, we talked about it all the time. It came out later, all of it, underneath the gold exports... that's what we said. We said that the oil was bought from Iran, and the natural gas was paid in gold. First disbelieved, then all came to pass, and what came after it? What's involved, who's getting out of here, the commissions, the bribes, it's all come out. So there's a serious problem when we look at it. Increased employment, reduced unemployment, unfortunately, there is no such thing. Unemployment, the unemployment of the Turkish economy, at 10 per cent, has gained a stability, it has gained a stasis, and I'll tell you something else, Mr. Secretary: Now, look, the unemployment figures have been announced, as well as the latest employment figures. I don't trust the Turkish Statistical Agency polls. The local labour force polls are 100 percent wrong, Mr. Secretary, so please intervene and change that, present the real numbers because the performance of the Turkish economy is clear. We're looking at the last four or five years, and the increase in employment is about 500,000 to 600 thousand a year, 500,000 to 600 thousand a year, but you're looking at it now, there's an increase in 1,200,1 million, 300 grand. And it's not possible for the economy to happen at a time when domestic demand stops, private consumption, households don't spend, companies, companies' investment spending is negative. It also prevents us from analyzing Turkey's economy properly. In this regard, they need serious consideration. We want to see the real numbers, we want to see the real numbers. So we want to see what the increase in employment in Turkey is, and we want to do our analysis on this. Controlling inflation... which inflation has been contained? Since 2006, this is a Turkish economy with a 50-100 percent-percent deviation in inflation targeting -- before it was meant to be empirical, covered inflation, then open inflation targeting -- almost every year. Is that even possible? You take it, the Central Bank is independent, you give it a specific target set, the targets are set, and then the Central Bank uses the tools that you have, but you look at it, there are serious deviations. Of course, this year, I'm not talking about speculations about the Federal Reserve, which we're recently living in. They, of course, are even worse, because, as a result, the government is collaborating with the Central Bank, but once the targets are set, the Central Bank has the authority to use the tools needed to achieve that goal. In that respect, the intervention of the President, the intervention of the other ministers after him, is extremely unfortunate, and as a result, the exchange rate has increased to what levels, I don't know, to the 2.60s. Well, can that happen? What is the cost of this to the economy, who has lost it in this process, and then there are some arguments that even economists laugh at when they look at it; what determines interest, is inflation the interest? These are the things that are taught in economics schools in the first grade. As a monetary policy tool, interest is set, but you can't increase investment by lowering interest. The interest, of course, is important as a cost element, but essentially the investor doesn't look at the short term when he invests, looks at the long-term interest rate, looks at three years, five years, ten years later, and looks at the demand projection, sees what the demand will be in the country, looks at it, sees if it can export, looks at it in the economy, decides on all of this, and decides on long-term interest rates, and when you intervene, you take a very negative view of what's going to happen in the economy. Now, of course, correcting income distribution, eradication of poverty; the situation in this area is obvious. In Turkey, poverty deepens. TÜİK is aware of this, and since 2009, poverty has not calculated what we used to call poverty and poverty of food and food plus non-food. So there's a dollar, $2.15, $4.30 account, and, uh, that's already in the current account. Dear lawmakers, the current income is already increasing, and the prices are not just growth rates. Right now in Turkey, when you look at it, it doesn't mean anything that no one is left behind. Turkey has a serious problem of distribution of income and poverty, and the instability between regions is not significantly reduced, and it is increasing. Of course, what kind of need is that? Financial policy, monetary policy, revenue policy, sector policy, regional policies, investment incentive policies, support policies in the economy demonstrate the need for co-existence in harmony. But unfortunately, from that point of view, we don't see any serious harmony. The Tenth Development Plan was prepared, covering 2014-2018. It had 25 priority conversion programs in it. And then suddenly, the government made a move on it, and the packages, and the packages, and the packages over and over and over again... well, my friends, they already had these, the precious MPs, they were already in the Tenth Development Plan. You're supposed to have done this before, in your 12-year-old power of thirteen years. We said, "After the 2001 crisis, it was a time when economies were alive, growth rates were increasing, dental trade volume increased, international liquidity was abundant." Turkey also grew up in the economy by taking advantage of that liquidity, taking advantage of that money from outside -- because it has a deficit, it has to import capital to complete the deficit -- by taking advantage of it. But this growth wasn't a real growth. It wasn't growth based on our own resources. This growth was a growth that meant turning mills with transport water, and as a result, when there was a cut in capital movements, a limitation, a limitation, a limitation, I suddenly compare the Turkish economy with the previous period of 2002-2007 in that way -- in a serious sense, the AKP didn't solve Turkey's structural problems at this time. Domestic savings are down. The percentage of savings in national revenues is averaged in the 1990s, with a 1994 crisis in which there is a recession in 1999 -- 23 per cent in your period -- but it's down to 15 per cent, even 12 per cent in some years, down to 11. Cari's deficit has increased, dating to 10 per cent. Of course, there are different reasons for the cari-procession deficit. There's an increase in oil and energy prices, but that's not the only reason. The main reason is the increase of the current transaction deficit was a model in an external model of the Turkish economy, based on the growth of high interest in low currencies, from outside capital, and that in Turkey, when reducing exports, it blew up imports and created a current transaction deficit. So in another sense, Turkey has increased its dependence on the imports of production and exports, and foreign debt has increased as a result. See, you often do those comparisons, until 2002 in 1923 -- let me do it -- there were 130 billion dollars in debt from the Ottoman Empire, which continued to be paid until 1954. And there were the KİTbooks, and the Sumerbanks, and the Etibanks, and the sugar mills, and the cement factories, and you came, twelve and a half years, and nearly thirteen years, and we looked, and it went up to 400 billion dollars. And even though there was a $62 billion privatisation in this period. So, when you look at it, the current transaction deficit is a problem. The turnout to the labour force is still at 50%. So only half of the working-age population can join the labor force, can that happen? The tax structure is based on serious indirect taxes; when the economy grows, taxes increase; when there is a recession in the economy, taxes drop suddenly. A model created that is extremely unhealthy and also a model that disrupts revenue distribution. In Turkey, the manufacturing industry is the engine industry, and when we look at the production and export structure of the manufacturing industry, we see that it's a structure where the lower and the middle six-tech sectors weigh more than two-thirds of it. The share of high-tech sectors, when we say add 100, is 3 percent of the internal distribution. With this, how will Turkey produce high added goods and services? How will Turkey compete with this abroad? How's he gonna grow up? How will it develop? How will it increase your prosperity, improve income distribution, reduce poverty? There is no such thing, my friends, there is no such thing. In summation, Turkey's structural problems have not been solved during the AKP period, rather have become heavy. Finally, I'll come to Kobi. In the gene or in the gene motion, it was about the SMEs. See, in Turkey, the number of SMEs, the number of figures that TÜİK. I'm giving you: 2 million 646,117. In terms of the total number of employees, 99.8 per cent of all initiatives -- almost 100 per cent of employment -- 75.8 per cent of employment -- 4 per cent of the value of adding 3 per cent, 53 per cent of investments, and 59 per cent of exports. But when we say "KOBI," don't think of the COBI as a whole within yourself. When we look at the COBI definition, there is a distinction between employees, yearly net sales and annual financial balance sheet. When I go over the number of employees, there are micro-businesses, companies that employ employees between one person and nine people, companies that employ people, they're micro-instructions. Small businesses that employ 10 to 49 workers, medium-sized businesses that employ between 50 and 249 workers. So there's actually three groups, and these three groups have the same problems as themselves, and automatically they don't have the same access to financing, they don't have the same marketing benefits, and they need to look at what's in such a structure in themselves. Look, I'll give you a few numbers. When we say KOBI, we're talking about businesses that basically make up almost all of the economy, but not that much of its weight in the economy. SMES need serious support. Look, the number of exporters is 50,000. I've just told you, there are 2.6 million SMEs; trades, artists, COBI, all those coverages, microscale, small scale, medium scale, 1.9 percent, 2 percent of them are exports, open to foreign markets. They have COSGEB support programs. In 2012, I'm giving you -2012, because in 2014, there are 2012 figures about the KOBI. There are 27,161, the amount of support is $293.5 million, the number of COSGEBs that benefit from COSGEB support is 1 per cent, Mr. Secretary, 1 per cent. So, you're saying there's a growing support for the COBI. COBI support is not increasing. So, when you look at it, it increases in numbers, but when you look at all the COBIs, we think of 2.6 million businesses, millions of people who live here, we see that only one percent, two percent of the population is taking advantage of it, exporting it, opening it to the outside markets. In this regard, serious measures are needed, especially for microsurgery and for small-scale businesses. The SMEs are important, flexible production structures, they have fast adaptability to changing market conditions, they play roles in regional development, they also have important roles in increasing employment and reducing unemployment, but the COBIs have serious problems. One is institutionalization. What does that mean? Establishing a system based on rules and principles means the creation of an organization that meets goals and goals, the establishment of job and task descriptions, management, management of business processes, and reporting. From this point of view, Turkey has a very serious institutionalisation problem. What did you do about it, Mr. Secretary? They have insufficient capital structures. It also raises financial problems. Because I'm telling you, they're not getting enough of their bank loans, and I just told you. Of course, there is also the impact of an unregistered portion of the COBI. Because it's off the record, naturally, he can't go out and get a loan, so he can't take advantage of his banking system, his finances. Either he can't give the papers the banks want, or he can't provide collateral, and the banks usually prefer big businesses. In such a structure, SMEs, especially small businesses -- even smaller SME -- have serious problems, not employing more workers, but smaller SMEs. It's one of the most important problems. Either they don't know it or they can't afford it. Taking a qualified employee means putting up with certain costs, putting up with the work and the work that he needs. E, when there is no qualified employee, there is no way that the COBI can provide anything. Innovation activities are weak, new entry rates are low, new product development is weak, RD spending is low, they can't bring technology, Mr. Secretary, so within a structure like this, the COBIs are scorched by their own fat, and you, as a government, are indifferent to that. There's a branding problem, there's a low-value product and service production, the majority and a large majority of businesses don't have any quality documents, they don't produce by quality standards, friends. Marketing issues, low exposure to the outside market, low export awareness. Well, when you look at all of this, we're dealing with a very serious SME sector with problems, but unfortunately the measures are insufficient. During the AKP's rule, both the economy has generally deteriorated, structural problems have become heavy, and the problems of the SMEs have not been solved. In the CHP's administration, we will build an economy based on production and investment, which produces high-end goods and services and shares income fairly. In this regard, we give special attention to the KOBI. The establishment of the Ministry of Traders and SMEs is one of our first promises in the Republican People's Party's ruling. I'm saying that we're going to turn the People's Bank into a private bank of SMEs and tradesmen, and we're going to make sure that the KOBIs survive and integrate into Turkey's economy, and they're going to open up. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0099par0081	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Cahit Bağcı, Çorum MP. Here you go, Mr. Bonder.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0100par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Today, our agenda has been given a geneor for HDP (HDP) on our Minister of Development, the use of capital of the problems and natural resources, the use of capital created by the alleged development strategies, the public participation in the planning of development, the lack of watering projects in the GAPP, and the alleged access to the financing of the SME (KoBİ). I'd like to share my thoughts on this, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, on behalf of my friends. Dear friends, of course, your arguments on the subject you criticize while criticizing certain policies need to be consistent with what you said earlier. You remember -- I've been in this Parliament for eight years -- my friends from the BDP -- our friends as HDP Group now and our friends as MPs -- at times have brought to our government the criticism of not being able to invest in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia districts, while giving various grounds of research proposals when it comes to it, when it comes to it, about various laws. Now, given the correlation of the genome, I would like to point out that I find it a contradiction here that the planned wind energy of the region, the solar energy panels, or the irrigation projects, is associated with the destruction created in nature. Of course, while making some investments, there is an unwanted purchase of material in nature. For example, you have to buy materials related to road construction, or you have to run a channel through somewhere, you have to make a tunnel. So there's some sort of play in that geography. But it's highly inconsistencies to view these games as the withdrawal of natural resources to capital or geography. I remember that at times, especially in this bench, Mr. Veysel Eroglu was serving as Minister of Environment in Turkey and environmental sensitivity in Turkey -- recently as Minister of Environment in Turkey -- in comparison to the previous years in the AK PARTI administrations -- very, very, very much -- in terms of environmental sensitivity, which exceeds 2, 3, and particularly in terms of wooding, forestification, erosion, and soil protection activities. I'm not going to go into that. But I would like to point out, in particular, that I consider the reason that development policies, or in general, have not been made, to be the weakest aspect of the gene. It's just that the speaker friends before me said that these studies were done through the State Planning Agency before the Ministry of Development -- which I've worked at for many years -- in the preparation of special admissions commissions, as well as in the construction of these studies that have been subdivided to their development plans. Look, my dear friends, the Tenth Development Plan was launched in 2010 with a participating approach to the Ministry of Development co-ordinating a plan, and the Prime Minister's Generality began with the work of 66 special-invention commission reports at the level of macroeconomics, sectorals and regionals. More than 3,000 academics, public employees, private members, civil society representatives have come together and contributed to the work. The preparation of the plan has also been carried out at the local level. Through development agencies, local administrations and local actors have been given views on Turkey's development priorities. In the formation of the plan text, the Ministry of Development's planning experience has been used by special occupational commission reports; the results of consultation meetings with business, civil society organisations, think tankes, academic environments, public and private sector representatives. From Çanakkale to Ağşa, İğdır, to Sinop (from İğdır) all our provinces have been surveyed, interviewed, written, held meetings, over 10,000 people from the municipality and from the organisation to Turkey's development priorities, and the 10th Development Plan has been set up as a road map. I'd like to share some numbers with you, some numbers on the table. There have been 3,038 interviews, valuable friends; 1,295 people from the public sector; 425 representatives from the private sector; 547 civil society representatives from NGOs; 500 from the academic world; 28 from our international institutions; 126 from local governments; 77 from social sectors; 77 from trade unions; 16 from public-owned companies; 15 from employer representatives from the private sector; 6 from the bar. On the other hand, dear friends, development agencies are currently operating in our 26 districts, and there is a support office in each of our districts that operates in the development agency. As in the 1960s, Turkey experienced the problems of planning and producing policies from the centre, as in the 1960s, when the planned years began. In this framework, along with the establishment of development agencies, the governor of every province, the mayor of every province -- Mr. Zozani, who has just expressed that there is no participation in the HDP (HDP) -- he writes on the basis of the geneorization -- the development agency board, which includes HDP mayors -- and in the same way, all civil society institutions in the province, the mayors of the city, the rectors, reflect their opinions on the development board, and contribute to the strategy of the region, and to the preparation of its master plans. The needs and priorities of each province are being established, especially the developmental stages of the region, the goal of development. We now have plans and strategies for the provinces by development agencies. While preparing the alleged program, the public's opinion is not received. The thesis means either that what is happening in our country is not seen or difficult to understand. I told my friends that one day in the provinces, that this could be the East Anatolia Development Agency, that could be the Dicle, that could be the Firat, that could be the Silkways, that could be the Ankara Development Agency, that could be the Çukurova, that could be the Central Black Sea Development Agency, that could be the Central Black Sea Development Agency, give you information about the work they've been doing, brief you on what kind of participation they've been doing, and you could be able to see it in a much more concrete way. In connection with the 25 transformation programmes, Mr. Günal also said, Mr. Türeli also expressed in his speech. Dear friends, you should be pleased that the 25 transforming programmes that provided the 10th Development Plan have been transformed into 1,300 action plans. There's something you've expressed in both the reading of these government programs and the annual budget talks, and what's that? It is not a government program that provides solutions to structural problems. Or the development plan does not provide solutions to structural problems. What are structural problems? You didn't reduce the deficit, you didn't create a cure for import dependency, you didn't increase savings. You didn't provide a solution to the qualified labor force. Here's the 1,300 action plan, a strategy, an action plan, that goes down to economics and markets, down to the very nuances of the organization, the responsible institution, the co-ordinator agency, the capillaries. From this, on behalf of Turkey, on behalf of our institutions, the Ministry of Development has established 50 years of experience in the past... From the sales of friends, the State Planning Agency is dead, and the Ministry of Development has become an ordinary ministry. That's definitely not true. The Ministry of Development has turned into a ministry that still advises governments, monitors, monitors, and implements all sides, as a higher, macro-producing institution, which reveals the strategies for Turkey's medium and long-term future, plans for action, as a policy-making institution. In this regard, it is a pleasure for Turkey to have 25 transformation programmes explained in detail by our Prime Minister. And you have been given three explanations of each transformation three times by examining it, and I want to say that I find it more accurate that you go into the contents of the 3 transformation programs that have been announced, and that the action plan for the following action plan is not healthy. Because I think politics can only travel with their instruments in a healthy way, or the possibility of practicality is more appropriate in that way. There's one thing that's been alleged in general about SMEs, and I'd like to say that, by the way, there's been a total of $1.9 billion in grants from development agencies in four years. 56 percent of this is the support given to SMEs. So other than loans given through banks or through COSGEB, about 1.9 billion euros in the last four years have been used as a grant to the SMEs, which has reached 50 per cent, which we can't possibly accept. The dissertation is that 10 million families are condemned to live with the aid of poverty. If you see this as a culture of need, such as social government or social welfare or social justice, the government's practices, the disabled, the elderly, the widow, the conservative, military families, such as general health insurance, it's your approach, but it only reveals the difference in our understanding. We, wherever there's an orphan, wherever there's a loser, wherever there's a helpless person, wherever there's a man who needs to be protected, we'll continue to take care of them in the need of social justice and social state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In terms of social benefits and expenditures, $825m from illegal domestic revenues in 2002 reached $26.5 billion euros today, but this could never confirm this statement of poverty, which was condemned to poverty, because the daily spending per person, dear friends, we discussed this in detail in budget talks; the population living below $4.3 was 30 percent of our population in 2002; in the same way, our daily spending per capita population was less than $3.25 per cent in 2002, but today there was almost no spending below $4.30. That's the only way you can eliminate the inequality of income distribution. In the last seven years, employment has been created in our country for 5.7 million people, including the years of the global financial crisis, as our Minister of Finance stated during budget talks. This is a picture of Turkey, which quickly improves income distribution and expands its middle class. Enlargement of growth, justice of income distribution, the dissolution of prosperity between regions have been the priorities of our governments. The most concrete indication that rapid growth reflects positively on all parts of society is the comparison between the richest 10 percent and the poorest 10 percent. In 2002, the income of the richest 10 per cent was 18 times the income of the poorest 10 per cent, while it dropped to 11 floors in 2013. According to human development indexes, Turkey is ranked 69 (69) among 187 countries. It's been a power that has been trying to improve social development by reducing the inequality of income. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you the final assessment of the GAP area. Mr. Kaplan said in his speech that the GAP was initially considered, of course, a programme based on the development of the region's water and land resources, but the newly announced plan announced by our Prime Minister in Mardin was transformed into a GAP regional development plan. So, at this stage, a regional development plan for all aspects of the GAP region has been transformed into a regional development programme in terms of hospitals, roads, dams, massifications, social benefits, OSBs, environmental investments. A matter has been expressed concerning Diyarbakır. So I got the information before I left. Dear friends, nothing has been done in Diyarbakir. While the number of villages with sewers is extremely limited in Diyarbakır, prior to 2002 -- which is close to 50 percent village -- I want to say that our 425 villages today are in the sewers, our drinking water-going village is over 1,500, and an investment of 15 billion euros has been made in Diyarbakir in the past 13 years. Hakeza stated that, again, Mr. Kaplan was not able to do anything. The motion states that watering investments can be made at 17 per cent. The irrigation project for the Ceylanpınar region has been tendered, will be watered down 700,000 per cent, and its construction continues. In the same way, the Viranşehir irrigation project will water 355 per cent of the land, and the tender will begin in the coming days. In this framework, I've had the opportunity to explain, express, in the genotype of our Development Minister, how to apply the Tenth Development Plan, both the transformation programmes and a regional development programme for the GAP region after the GAP Project. I believe the GAP development project will create a serious synergy in our region, created it. I visited the area a year ago with 47 of our fellow lawmakers. I saw that even the name of the solution carries a serious expectation, hope, beauty for the future, and I felt it. Hopefully, these programs will bring us closer to our country's development, development, development, and 2023 goals. I say it will contribute to the construction of a more democratic Turkey, to the construction of a more advanced Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0101par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0101par0111	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0112	In his speech, Mr. Bonder accused our group of inappropriate and inconsistencies, the criticism we expressed from the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0101par0113	Here you go, Mr. Zozani. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bonder, I think it's enough that we take the conversation that you've been having here for about 20 minutes and put it in a gene question for good reason, because it was only tendered ten years ago, five years ago, and three years ago. Is there a possibility? No. You remember, last year -- because you mentioned his name -- Mr. Veysel Eroglu showed me a picture of the Photoshop with water in it about the GAP Project, about those irrigation channels; it was clearly Photoshop, in last year's pamphlet, look at it. As for the Minister, please speak to us in return for what we have expressed. Mr. Minister Hakkari has spoken at your party's convention: we have established our university in Hakari, and we are allocation of very important investments. There's $131 million invested in our Hakkari University's investment programme, and I'm not talking about current spending, I'm not talking about staff or other expenses, I'm just saying that our investment fund is 131 million. Either you've gone to Hakkari, Mr. Secretary, look up your head, see where this university is. That's how much you paid for it. You spent 131 million dollars, put up a sign on the mountain.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0103par0119	There's a sign, there's a mountain.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0120	Look, we've shown her pictures over and over. You spent 131 million dollars, and you put a university sign on the foot of Mount Sümbül, the University of Hakkari. It's on the mountain. Wherever he looks, wherever he looks, he sees that sign. Other than that, there's no college.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0103par0121	The Minister will see.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0122	The minister didn't see it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0103par0123	How's he looking? Depends on how you look at it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0102par0124	I wonder what he'll say here in a minute. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0104par0130	Members of parliament, the president of the Spanish Senate, Mr. Pio Garcia-Escudero, who made an official visit to our country, and the delegation with him, have now arrived at our House. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Applause]] Cevdet Yilmaz is now in the name of the government, Minister of Development. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0105par0138	Mr. President, I stand before you on behalf of the most valued lawmakers, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our development policies are being criticised in the general development policy; as far as various dimensions, social dimensions, regional dimensions, our SME policies, there are various criticisms about them. Well, first of all, I just want to say this, and I mean this sincerely, and I don't mean to be a polemic, but I wish we could discuss these things all the time. More current issues, unfortunately, are always discussed. Such development policies, long-term policies are not always discussed. The general question, of course, is that it can be considered in different ways in terms of the time of our House, but I think it's very useful to discuss these issues. In this framework, we will always strive to benefit from the criticism expressed by the opposition. I'd like to point that out. Dear friends, I would like to take this opportunity to share with you our approach to development policies. And for that, of course, I consider it an opportunity. The concept of ascension is a different concept than the concept of economics. We have a Ministry of Economics, a Ministry of Finance, a Ministry of Development. Development, of course, is an economic concept. Without economics, it is of course impossible to understand development without evaluation of the economy, but it is not a concept that can be reduced to the economy; it is a broader concept, a multidimensional concept. Especially when you approach human-focused development, you can see it much more comfortable. As a matter of fact, there is a concept in international discussions that the United Nations calls sustainable development. When you look at it with this concept, it's basically three dimensions: economic dimensions, social dimensions, and environmental dimensions. The economic dimension, you know, increase our well-being; the more balanced distribution of social dimensions, prosperity among the people in the present generation; what we call environmental dimensions -- the establishment of justice between today's generations, the balance of future generations, the total loss of resources by today's generation, and the transfer of it to future generations. I'm telling you, in fact, in international environments, it needs to be added to a fourth dimension. And that dimension is the dimension of fundamental rights and the dimension of law, the dimension of democracy. I think if we add the measure of freedom to economic, social, and environmental dimensions, we're actually describing it the way it deserves to develop. And in this framework, I'm going to try to share what kind of performance we've performed in the last 12 years during our governments. But at this point, I'd like to underline this. The concept we call success, of course, can be described in different ways, subjective descriptions can be brought to success, but can be measured, can also be described objectively. In politics, of course, maybe we should measure it both ways. One is to measure success in economics, social numbers, and the other is to measure the public's support for your policies in the context of humility. In both ways, I can easily express that the last 12 years of the EC PARTY have been successful. I'm not in a position to go into a lot of detail about the size of this, but I'm going to try to make certain points. More important than numbers, of course, is our people's support for our policies in a democratic environment, in free and fair elections, which, thank God, we see growing in every election. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, to sum up the economic indicators very briefly, it was about $3,500 per person when the AK PARTY came to power, about $10,500 in our latest measurements. Our national income has risen from $230 billion to $800 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0106par0145	The Prime Minister said 19,000 dollars at a time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0105par0146	Our exports went from $36 billion to 158 billion last year, our RD spending went up, and I don't want to go into all this in too much detail. There are services from public housing to double roads, to built education, health facilities.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0106par0147	Someone's lying, the Prime Minister or the Minister!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0105par0148	On the other hand, the social dimension is as important as this economic dimension. I want to be more of a social person today. Did the AK PARTY governments succeed socially? We really need to ask ourselves that because there is no way that an economic policy that is not socially successful is sustainable, and there is no way that it can be supported politically. So we have to look at this. Now, when we look, what did we do in this area? Dear friends, to measure this, there is a coefficient called the gini coefficient. It measures income distribution; as justice increases in income distribution, the Gini coefficient falls, and as injustice increases in income distribution, so does the Gini coefficient. When we look at this, the Gini coefficient in 2002 is 0.44, and it is down to 0.38 in 2013. It's a relative amount of income distribution that makes it better.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0150	Where does this 0.38 say it is, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0105par0151	So, on the one hand here...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0152	Mr. Secretary, where's this 0.38 from?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0108par0153	Listen, while you were talking, we were silent.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0154	No, no, the number of what?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0155	The figures of TÜİK.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0156	Yeah, it's a better average than the European Union average.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0157	The European Union is better, and we will rise there, I hope.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0158	Mr. Secretary, a better number than the European Union is 0.42.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0110par0159	You know damn well!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0160	Yeah, it's not a good number from the European Union, so check those numbers.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0107par0161	You check it out.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0162	Dear friends, of course, this 0.38 is a good number, but it's worse than the European Union averages. We need to get this better, and we're going to move on with better policies, of course, but as far as we're concerned, the AK PARTI has both grown the economy and raised our bread and made it fairer. Many countries can't do that, many economic policies can't. Some countries succeed in growing the economy, fail in social policy; some do good in social policy, but cannot grow the economy. The AK PARTY has demonstrated a performance that improves social justice as it expands the economy. And that's a performance that needs to be appreciated. On the other hand, there are also internationally comparable numbers of poverty. And again, we calculate this by the power of buying, not by the price of the current dollar, but by the parity of buying power that is comparable to the entire world. According to this, our population, which was under $4.3 per day in 2002, was more than 30 per cent of our population. So in 2002, the population of Turkey was 66 million, and more than 20 million of our people were sentenced to spend less than $4.30 per day, according to the buying power parity. This number is down to 2.1 percent in our latest calculations. This solo performance is a very clear indication of how effective poverty struggles during the EC PARTY period, and I don't want to go into the other numbers. All of this, of course, didn't happen spontaneously, especially when we made serious increases in public social spending. In the period of the EC PARTY, in the environment of trust and stability, in the environment of political stability and macroeconomic stability, our interest costs have significantly declined, while our investment spending and social expenditures have increased dramatically. Look, in terms of proportions, our social spending, our social welfare spending has increased by about two-and-a-half times in this period. In 2002, 825 million Turkish liras were used for these social expenditures, while in 2014, we were spending up to 26.5 billion Turkish dollars. On the other hand, again, the United Nations has what we call the human development index. This doesn't just measure development with economics; it comes to each person, education and health according to the ability to buy; it measures human development in three key indicators. In 2000, Turkey ranked 80th in 158 countries, while 158 ranked 80th in the country, while 187 ranked 69th in 2013. So the number of countries has increased, Turkey has improved its situation even more. There are four categories here that the United Nations recognizes: there are countries in a low-human development group, countries in a medium-human development group, high-human development, and the highest human development. The first 50 countries are about the highest human development, and we are in the category of high human development. Hopefully, in the coming years, we will be in a position to aim for the highest human development in our social policies, education, and health investments. On the other hand, there are some criticisms from time to time that our welfare spending has negatively affected employment. We've been doing important work on these issues in recent years. We're working with welfare to strengthen the bond of employment. In 2014, we put about 54,000 people into work, 44,000 people who had previously received welfare. Again, we've trained 32,000 people, prepared them for labor markets. We're splitting welfare. We also have temporary benefits, one that we really need to give, which is the constant support that we need to do for our people, who are in no condition to work -- that's a need for social government and justice. We're temporarily considering aid to our people who can work, and we're implementing policies that will make our people stand on their own for a while. There are new measures in the coming period. This is part of our 25 transformation programs, and we have some activities, some actions.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0111par0168	How many have happened, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0169	Especially when it employs poor people, people who receive social support, businesses, a number of incentives to support it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0111par0170	Has it changed or has the legislation changed?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0171	Dear friends, on the other hand, we can easily express the spread of prosperity. And I'd like to give you one example: look, do you know how much the minimum salary was in 2002? 184 Turkish liras, only 184 Turkish liras. In 2015, this number rose to 949 Turkish liras. Hopefully, for the first time in the second half, we'll be over a thousand liras. In real terms, if you accept 100 liras, 2002 is up to 212 in 2014. And that's a very clear indication that prosperity is spreading to the social community. There's a lot to be said for social indicators. From our investment in colleges, to hospitals, to a lot of other places. I'm not going to be able to get into any of this in terms of time.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0111par0173	Tell me about the hospitals, Mr. Secretary. Tell me about the hospitals and these businesses, it's your business.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0112par0174	Get in, get into these colleges.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0109par0175	I'd like to talk about the environmental dimension as well as the social dimension, because there are criticisms about the environment as well.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0111par0176	They had a public private hospital, so let's hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0112par0177	Mr. Secretary, tell me about this college thing.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0111par0178	We're waiting specifically for hospitals, hospitals.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0113par0179	Now, what we've done with the environment, I'd like to share a few things about it, as long as it takes time. There have also been significant developments in the environment during the AK PARTY ruling period. Look, we have a program called HUKAP. Maybe we haven't been able to explain this enough, it's actually a bigger program than CYDES. With this program, we are currently supporting all our municipalities with insufficient financial resources. We support 50 per cent of the projects of our municipalities, whose population is less than 25,000, we provide long-term loans to our other municipalities, and this is how we develop the infrastructure of our cities. Currently, 589 projects of $4.1 billion continue in this sense, and 362 projects have been completed. Again, when you look at our presence in the forest, in 2002, 20.7 million hectares rose to 21.7 million hectares in 2014. In this period, we've had 411,000 hectares of wooding, we've done an erosion check in 644,000 hectares, we've done 2.7 million hectares of rehabilitated forest work, and we've done 4.1 billion seedlings again, and we've established 127 urban forests here. This is all important work we've done in forestry over the last 12 years. We've also made some serious progress in the fight against erosion. Before our governments lost 500 million tons of land per year, the number we came to today has dropped to 178 million tons. Of course, the goal is to reset it, lower it to even lower levels. In 2009, Turkey again sided with the Kyoto Protocol, and in 2009 the National Climate Change Strategy Document was approved and implemented by the High Planning Board. In this period, we saved 1.4 billion tons of emissions. According to 2002, the emissions density of Turkey's economy decreased by 13 per cent in 2012. I mean, I can easily express that we're building a unit that will produce less carbon as our economy grows. We've completed 14 integrated solid waste projects in this period. Air quality stations, marine pollution monitoring stations, we've had some serious increases in all of this. And, of course, we've made significant progress here with the European Union, as well. Look, environmental issues come up all the time. It's a very positive area in the environment this period, compared to past periods. But the more we do here, the less we can. In the coming period, we will continue to give priority to these issues, especially energy efficiency. I'm running out of time. I'd like to share some ideas about the SME policies right away. The COBI are very important to us, as we have just been told. It's not just economically, it's socially, it's innovatively, it's an entrepreneurial area. As of today, about 76 per cent of employment, 54.5 per cent of the added value, 53.2 per cent of the investments are produced by SMEs. WHAT did we do to the COBI? Look, in 2008, we raised it to $394 billion Turkish dollars in 2014, when the SME loans were $86 billion. At the same time, the share of the SME loans in total has increased from 25.1% to 34.6%. Of course, we need to increase this, we need to continue with our policies. For the first time in our time, a COBI Strategy and Action Plan was created and implemented. As of the end of 2014, KOSGEB has provided 312 million Turkish liras for 34,751 businesses. We have various programs, such as technology development centers, entrepreneurial training, techno-entertainment capital support. We also increased the number of our organised industrial regions to 162. We've increased the number of our small industrial sites to 453. We've increased the number of our technology development zones to 59. Together with all these infrastructures, we continue to support our COBIs with development agencies, rural development funds. In the meantime, I'd like to express a few things about the GAP. It's a very important development programme that Turkey should be proud of. We also conducted extremely important work on the GAP. Look, some criticism may be repeated because of the past, but we have to fix this. In the past, indeed, watering in the Gap was not important enough. When you looked at the government before us in 2002, when we took over, the government's funding was reduced to 5 percent in total public investments. What did we do? We came up with a new action plan in 2008, and since then, the share of GAP investments in total public investments has increased to 14 per cent and reached a significant amount. We're pretty much done with the dams here. What have we been focusing on lately? We've focused on the main channels. From the dams, we focused on those huge, huge main channels that would bring water to the field. It's in this frame, but we didn't neglect the inside of the field. We have risen to 424,000 hectares in the field. But next semester, we're going to be in the real field. In the dams, the water piled up, and we carried it through the main channels to the great plains. Our enormous investments in Suruç are in the middle, our investments in Mardin, the second major irrigation project after the Ataturk Dam, in Batman, Diyarbakır Silvan. We're putting a lot of weight on watering it with all these projects. And in the coming period, the irrigation will still be heavy. I'll give you one number. In 2002, the funding for the watering of the Gap was only 75 million, 75 million...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0114par0194	What percentage is it, percentage?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0113par0195	In 2015, we allocated $1.2 billion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, we've increased the watering allowance 16 times, 16 times. We'd expect you to thank me for that. But we care about the thanks of our people. And from now on, we will continue to serve our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0115par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0116par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0202	Mr. Longhorn raised his hand before you, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0118par0204	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu announced on 9 February 2015 that national income per person in Turkey was $19,000 at the International Finance Institute's conference at the Bosphorus Hotel. Mr. Secretary says $10,500.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0119par0205	That's based on the power to buy.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0206	Yeah, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0120par0207	As a result, it fell to 6,300.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0208	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0209	Mr. President, Mr. Minister Yilmaz gave us the Gini coefficient and gave us the numbers in our share of income, which are unfair, education, health and social resources, in some way incorrect figures, and he gave us the wrong number when he expressed the Gini coefficient. The number I gave you...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0210	He gave his opinion, told him to work. I don't think that's...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0211	No, sir, I...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0212	No, did he tell you otherwise?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0213	He said I'd twisted it, he said I'd split the wrong numbers.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0214	Then no rat should be talking about anything.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0215	No, sir, let him speak, why not!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0216	I get it, look, now that...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0217	We asked a lot of questions.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0218	Mr. Zozani, we're looking for a tease to make you a promise.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0219	There's bullying, yes.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0220	Did he say otherwise than you said?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0221	Look, it's not just the opposite. He said I twisted the numbers, that's the opposite. He said the numbers I gave him were wrong, wrong numbers that weren't right. It's a tease. If he can't refute the opposite...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0222	All right, I'll get the transcripts, okay.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0121par0223	No, sir, what report!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0224	I'll have the transcripts brought in, Mr. Zozani. Why...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0122par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0226	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0122par0227	Now, he said, during his speech, our criticisms during the previous administrations became a habit, and those criticisms were again unfairly directed at this government regarding irrigation channels. So he made a public taunt of our group. I mean, it's like we've been picking on information from previous governments about irrigation channels...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0228	Mr. Baluken, please. Who's gonna talk? You?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0122par0229	Mr. Adil.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0117par0230	Mr. Zozani, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0123par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you can fill the water channels with Photoshop. It's between your skills. Mr. Minister Eroglu filled the watering channels with Photoshop, and we saw this. And you're saying it now, you're explaining the Gini coefficient. Let me put it in terms that the Gini coefficient is understandable. The unfairness of income sharing, education, health care, social benefits offer citizens the average data on transport, the Gini coefficient. Turkey expressed its Gini coefficient data as 0.38. Mr. Secretary put it the wrong way. Turkey ranks 27 countries, third to third in the OECD rankings. Who is behind Turkey? Chile and Mexico. What is Turkey's Gini coefficient average? 0.41 is this year's data, not 38. What's OECD's data, what's the average? .31 percent. Which country is in the best position? Norway is 0.24. Now, which one should I correct? It's all wrong, it's all wrong. Second of all, Mr. Secretary, look, I've asked close to 10 questions here, and you haven't answered any of them. I asked you about your province, and you didn't answer.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0124par0236	If he promises, I'll go on with the president.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0123par0237	Sir, you could have gotten into this in 20 minutes.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0124par0238	Come to Bingol, and we'll show you all the investments.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0123par0239	Look, I mean, we go to Bingley a lot, but you don't stop by, so it looks like. So, Mr. Secretary, I don't think you'll be able to see this Gini coefficient after you've seen the college sign.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0125par0240	Pull up a record of Mush Airport, and he comes there every week.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0123par0241	Look, sir, the Gini coefficient the Minister gave us belongs to the United States, not Turkey. Mr. Secretary sees America, Turkey can't see Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0126par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0127par0244	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0126par0245	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0127par0246	Mr. President, I asked Mr. Secretary about the transformation programs. I said, "You've explained 1,400 sub-measures, how many of these have you done?" Now, I mean, we're waiting for him to say something, he doesn't.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0128par0247	Time is limited.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0129par0248	Yeah, when? Mr. President, give him an hour and he'll tell you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0127par0249	He said about health: "Don't go around." He's in good health, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0130par0250	It's been filed, Mr. Günal, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0127par0251	...all the information was misleading, no explanations. For the record.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0130par0255	Talks have been completed on whether or not to bring up the motion to ask about Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0131par0259	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit08spe0130par0260	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Haberkes, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Nice, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Akchay, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Öz, Mr. Light, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Günal, Mr. Cloud and Mr. Farkırmak. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. All those in favor of bringing up the motion for the gene... those in favor of the motion... are inadmissible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0130par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposal for Changes in Population Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Change in Population Services Law; Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir's Proposal for Amendments in the Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu and Koseli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal for Amendments in Local Services Law; İstanbul MP Bkent Turan's Proposal for Al-Seconditional Law, Çanakkale MP İs Kashdemir's Proposal for Information Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Information; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law Order for Humanitance; İstanbul MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Proposal; İstanbul's Proposal Çağişdeşdeşdeşimation on Peace and the Law on the Laws Law; İstanbul Council of Humanity of Humanment; We will Proposition to Bene on the Law on the Law on the Law; We shall Propose to Bene of Humanment of Humanment of Humanity and the Peace and the Law on the Law on Peace of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Peace and Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; Wed on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Humanment of Human.; Wed.; We shall of Peace and the Law. of Peace and the Law on Human. of Peace and the Council of Peace and the Peace and the Constitution of Peace and the Constitution of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace of Peace and the Law on Peace of Peace and the Law on Human. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and Kırıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 45 MPs; the Law Proposal and Budget Commission Report on Changes in Some Laws and Laws Acts; and the chairman of the Turkish Parliament and the President of the Plan and Budget Commission. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 688 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now, Erkan Akçay, who has asked for the entire proposal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0132par0031	He's coming, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0130par0032	Second, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0133par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the proposal of Law 688 rows, or rather the bag. I salute you all. Dear friends, now, we have a story of the bill. As every bag that comes in here has a story of each row, there's a story. We're about to share this story with you in detail, but first, what is the element of its essence? That's where I'll start my evaluations. You know, a university is founded, a university of health sciences. Good luck with that. It's a useful business. Of course, we do not object to the establishment of universities, but universities must be established and serve the purpose. Of course, for many years, our academics in Turkey, especially in educational research hospitals, have suffered an injustice. Now, with this proposal of law, once we've been approved and accepted, we're going to eliminate this victim. But you didn't need a book like that to eliminate the victim. A change of substance could have wiped out that victim years ago. But so far he's been neglected, brought here. Now, a university is founded, founded, based in Istanbul, and if I'm not mistaken about the number, 59 education and research hospitals will become directly the university's unit, and Istanbul will also receive universities and students in central Istanbul. So from now on, this university will be able to record students, make choices, and graduate from this university. But while he's doing that, when he's starting this university, he's trying to try to make sure that the government doesn't exist. You know, in Turkey, universities are either set up in accordance with RD legislation or they are set up in accordance with the laws of the foundation universities. Now, the university, founded here, is being tried to become a university of RDC, but run by the rules of the foundation university. Our bureaucrats, our relevant friends, our fellow lawmakers, met together for hours and days, discussing a clause. I've been saying for days, they've worked for forty or eight hours with their own pronunciation, and we haven't been able to find it, why did we make such a mistake? What did they do? The last thing they found out was that it was against the Constitution. They're sending this anti-constitutional clause to the Speakership of Parliament in a bid. Now, we're going out here from time to time, we're objecting. This place is wrong. It's better if this place is like this. I'm just giving you this example to show that we're not opposed, that we're trying to right a wrong. It's important, and I think you'll understand, so I'm going to share this example with you in detail. There's the legislature's President of the Laws, and he's a member of the Parliament's Presidential Court. Every law proposal or bill that comes in is inspected and examined on behalf of the Speakership. What's it based on? Under Articles 73 and 74 of the Civil Code, and through Article 21 of the drafting of the law, it is inspected, examined, and then referred the Parliamentary Presidency, the proposed or bill to relevant commissions. That's what happened this time. Look, he studied bureaucracy, worked with fellow ruling party MPs, created text, submitted to Parliament Speakership, transferred it to the committee. Immediately, anyone who reads the Civil Code once or reads the Constitution once in a while finds that the article related to the establishment of this university is contrary to the Constitution. Against what? Sir, Article 82 of the Constitution says that they can't be busy with things that are incompatible with the state. They put the Minister of Health in charge of the trustees of this university. Let's say he got that far, he wasn't seen. He will play by the rules of the university foundation, which will be established in accordance with law code 2547. They've identified the trustees. Who's on the board of trustees? First, the minister, the undersecretary, the two people appointed by the Ministry and the chancellor. This has been corrected after the Constitution has determined a breach. What is it that's being corrected? The board of trustees, they're still there. You know, the board of trustees is a model of management for foundation colleges. There's the undersecretary, there's the chancellor, there's two members appointed by the minister, and there's one representative of the SEC. Under any circumstances, the Ministry leads 3-2. No matter how you look at the scoreboard, the Ministry is 3-2 at any rate. So let's say that the chancellor is going to be a little bit of a opposition, and think that the member of the SEC will be partially opposed, no matter how you look at it, the Ministry has 3-2 weights. What will this board of trustees do? The trustee's committee, which came to us in the text that came to the Commission, is in charge of everything, including the appointment of professors, professors and professors and their promotional arrangements, including the allocations of titles. A parallel RD was set up. Objection, some of the items were removed. Now, is that a satisfactory arrangement? Look, you can't raise the powers of the trustees' delegation, but the first thing you're going to do if you're in power and you're here in the next few years is you're going to make a slight change in any of the materials associated with the establishment of this university, and you're going to increase the powers of the board of trustees at the University of Health Sciences. Look, you're going to make a very small change. All of the powers that have been removed from the bill today are due to you, if you're in power one more semester, it'll be at the latest...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0134par0043	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0133par0044	In the fall of 2015, you're going to make such a small correction, into a bag... I'll write down today, and we'll see. I don't know if Mr. Cevdet Erdöl will be here, but... I've heard the name of Mr. Kerim Ozkul for a month and a half. If he's in the General Assembly for God's sake, I'd like to see him stand up once, I'd like to know him. Yeah, we slept with him for a month and a half, we got up, we argued, I didn't see him once. If he's on the General Assembly, I'd like to see Mr. Özkul stand up once. Second point: look, dear friends, another item has come to us, there's another story in the proposal text. Sultanbeyli, if I'm not mistaken, is a trampaisation of the solution to a 9 million-metre-square-square-square-square-square-foot plot problem found in Istanbul. For this, the AFAD envisions a change in the Disaster Act. According to the amendment to the Disaster Act, Istanbul will resolve this problem in Sultanbeyli. But Sultanbeyli is missing, no name. For example, there's an arrangement here about Konya, which is clearly expressed. We suggested, "If you have any doubts about this, Sultanbeyli of Istanbul, if you are prepared to do so, share it openly with us, we know, we promise you, we promise you support, 200,000 citizens are not victims." Guys, we argued for more than half a day. We discussed the same substance upstairs in relation to the procedure of the same substance. Now, if you're telling us here, the opposition is wasting our time. We argued for half a day. If there's a crescent in what I'm saying, a lot of friends are witnesses here. Mr. Secretary was there, our Commissioner, our Commissioners are there. Mr. Erdöl is a witness to the argument. We argued for half a day. We were saying, sir, you can't make such an arrangement in the Disaster Act. So go back to what we have said, and We have not made any evidence of what We have said to you except that We have enjoined it on you. We said, "Let us call an expert from the people of the land, and see what he says." There's an expert at national real estate, you know what he'd like to say? Sir, do you know where you can only apply this arrangement all over Turkey? You can't just apply it to Sultanbeyli. You can't apply it. In Diyarbakır, Hakkari, in other parts of İstanbul, in Kayseri, in Konya, wherever you want, you can apply it here, but you cannot apply it to Sultanbeyli, which you want to apply. What do you have to do to apply it? You must first declare Sultanbeyli a disaster zone. What happens when you declare it a disaster zone? According to the Act of Disaster, which has been in effect since 1957 and has been partially modified in 2012, you cannot nail it. The government will have seized the property of 200,000 citizens. It's in the amendment clause you brought in. As opposition party MPs, sir, this is wrong. We don't make this mistake, we don't easily get it through here. Let's make it right. After half a day of arguing, they came back to us, and they said, "I'm sorry, it's wrong. We're wrong, we're wrong, we're wrong. So, what are we going to do? Well, let's just bend the ear of the Civil Charter a little bit, and put Sultanbeyli here. Because according to Article 35 of the Civil Charter, commissions can't offer laws on things that don't work, they work on things that don't work. What are we gonna do? There's no sign of him there. They asked us to turn a blind eye because there were no amendments in the relevant law. The number of citizens living in Istanbul Sultanbeyli is given to us by members of the ruling party -- the law of 200,000 people has been improved here, according to the law and, frankly, friends, the opposition has solved the problem of 200,000 citizens living in Istanbul Sultanbeyli, not you. Not you, the opposition has solved, so this opposition is doing good things, so it's a good thing there's this opposition, and it's a good thing you're being followed, and it's a good thing you're being studied. There are other provisions, but just look at them on two counts, I've been talking for almost 15 minutes, and I'm not done with two more. He's got so many stories to tell, we'll go back to square one. Now, last semester, that famous, time-consuming bag was placed inside, then cancelled by the Constitutional Court, the TİB arrangement. We're talking, like, 36 points, but look, I'm only on the 3rd. What if last year, not even a year ago, what we said on this stand, on this committee, on that TİB arrangement, a servant of God had said, "Let's hear this opposition, perhaps he was telling the truth." If he had said, you wouldn't have lost a year, you wouldn't have kept the Supreme Court occupied. Is everyone in this country wrong and you're the only one who's right? So, look, you just came in here to bring in a TİB arrangement, a new TİB arrangement. The TİB arrangement, I'm sorry, it's wrong again, it's put here, it's wrong again. If he goes to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court must reject it, cancel it, and cancel the current arrangement. We've been telling you all along, you guys, if you really want people to live in peace in this country, if you want them not to have rest anxiety, there's one thing you need to do first: bring in the personal data protection law and we'll legalize it here. Let's talk about this first, and then we'll move on to the authority of the government and the government to listen to the citizen. But none of this has been done, and in the name of the state, the government has put a glass in everyone's hands, and they're listening. Yeah, well, it's primitive, it's not tangible, it's primitive. The Ministry of Transport has also made arrangements here, it's a celebration of homes. I'm sure there are issues here tonight that all lawmakers will be concerned about. The arrangements concerning the green moon and the red moon. Well, I didn't really spend a lot of time on that, since I assumed it would be too specific. But imagine that there is a foundation in a country, who are the foundation managers unknown, and the foundation is privileged in that law. We don't know who will use those privileges in any way. If you go on websites, you'll find out who's the trustee of any foundation, who's the board, who's the board of directors, and you'll find it very easily if you go in as an MP, but we've also been trying to reach the board of trustees of one of the foundations that has been privileged and considered useful to the public, and we haven't been able to reach them. We don't know who he is. But his name is very tempting, and for a long time Turkey has been a public name known to everyone. But, who owns it, who runs it? We want to know. Why are you hiding this information from the public in Turkey? Why are you hiding it from the public in Turkey? Well, friends, when you come at me like this or you look at me like this, I'm sorry, you'll be under suspicion, you'll have to hear criticisms that seem unfair to you. Open it up, it's good for transparency. In transparency, you get a little criticized today, but two days later, one of them says, "At least they're transparent. Now, I promised the Minister I wouldn't speak more than 20 minutes. There will be both amendment proposals and detailed assessments regarding their clauses. May the founding of the university be blessed, and I hope it serves its purpose. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0135par0056	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0136par0060	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the entire Law Proposal 688. I salute your honorable committee. Honorable lawmakers, Yusuf Has Hacib, Kutadgu Bilig (a law based on justice is the pillar of the sky; if the law is broken, heaven cannot stand in its place. We are discussing one of the legal regulations of the legal system that was destroyed during the Justice and Development Party today. In this law, there is no Constitution, there is no rule of law, there is almost no expectations and demands of our citizens; instead, there are materials, party ulations, university arrangements made into party colleges, there is support, there is interest, but there is no right, there is no law. There are no farmers, no pensioners, no tradesmen, no workers, no weird gurus. On this occasion, on February 10, 2015, the regulations for the rights demands -- despite the promise of economic compensation -- are still on the horizon in front of the Labour Ministry and Turkish Coal Enterprises -- of 400 mine workers who left Soma (February 10, 2015). Parliament is about to close, and on April 5th, it will interrupt its work due to the election. On 1 December 2014, however, 2,831 miners were fired from Soma, with cell phone messages. It has been a hundred and six days since then, and the clock has passed, but the workers still haven't received their compensation. However, the company, of course, explained that it was unable to pay because its rights were a precautionary measure on its accounts. The court's decisions, which came out before and after that, were considered to be the main employer, the employee of the Turkish Coal Company in court decisions. According to this court ruling, there is no need to make a new legal arrangement, but, of course, this legal arrangement can be made to free bureaucracy and institutions from certain hesitations and responsibilities. However, we visited all the political party groups in parliament along with these workers. Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, vice president of the Justice and Development Party, has also stated that the work will be done and that there will be a result, but we can't even see the intention for workers to receive compensation yet. On the other hand, it can be done in a very short period of time with the agreement of all groups during the talks of the bag of law proposals. Again, on 1 December 2014, the government's spokesman, Mr. Bulent Arinc, made the following statement: "We're on the subject, we'll figure it out." In the last hundred and six days, the government has condemned the miners to hunger, let them be unemployed, and workers are hungry and exposed, in the streets of Soma, in the streets of Soma, in the streets of Soma, day and night. We'd like to call in a joint call from the National Movement Party to all political parties: The Soma miner's eyes are on the Great National Assembly of Turkey. With an offer of law, we can settle this easily in the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this bag of law regulations also shows that the government has stolen a separate string from another wire, from the Justice and Development Party Group. No tunes, what I say, what my tamburam plays. On September 15, 2014, the government's spokesman, Mr. Bkent Arinc, states exactly that it is the Prime Minister's directive, which states that Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu has changed a clause of every law and, unfortunately, we are not trying to put a word like that into the literature of legislation. Let's hope we can get this out of literature. Legislature is something that accepts zero mistakes. From now on, you will not see such a material bill. This is Mr. Bulent Arinc. Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek used the following statements on September 29, 2014: We have not been able to make law enforcement efficient in law enforcement. So we took a strange detour and brought up an app like a bag of laws. So legislature activities do not accept mistakes, and efficiency is important in law enforcement, but there is no efficiency. So we ask: Why did the Justice and Development Party bring a total of 37 articles of law proposal to Parliament, under the signature of its lawmakers, and under the amendment of 20 laws and 5 laws? He brought it because there's no plan, no schedule, no intimacy, no principle, no orchestration, no chords. So to speak, he slipped.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0137par0067	It's broken!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0136par0068	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0138par0069	What's in the MHP?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0136par0070	Another thing I want to point out is that the basis of the legislature's legislative activities is the principle of legality. We can't leave the law here when we're making laws for the Turkish nation and the Republic of Turkey. We can't leave the Constitution and the Civil Code. In other words, it is essential that laws be prepared and discussed in accordance with the Constitution and the Civil Code, but there are amendments to the Constitution. The 5th article on the establishment of the University of Health Sciences, the 17th article on the restructuring of the targets of electricity-smuggling rates, the 27th article on internet regulations, the 26th article of the Civilisation Act, which stipulates a change in Article 4 of the Law, is contrary to the Constitution, and the proposal was brought to the General Assembly by a commission study against Articles 35 and 87. And due to the lack of time, unfortunately, we can't go into too much detail. However, during the matter negotiations, we will express our views on this matter in detail. Dear MPs, the bag of law regulations have been made a legal cover of AKP corruption and irregularities, illegal and even criminal activities. Illegal acts and activities are intended to be taken within the legal framework with the bag of laws. The bag of laws includes much more regulations that target individual and political interests than social needs. In this case, the law proposal reflects the will and initiative of some custody centers outside the government and above the government, rather than the will of the government. It's informal, arbitrary and personal. It points to the Constitution and an illegal will. Those who want to run the country like a company actually express their desire for a comfortable and personal government to society, but they have nothing to do with profit-only corporate management, loss. However, there are also many public harms from these regulations and practices. The six articles of the proposal include regulations concerning the Red and Green are regulations that lay the groundwork for nepotism and corruption. There is an arrangement to transfer $15m from the Ministry of Health budget to the Yeşilay Foundation and a grant to be raised in terms of re-valuement for the years following in 2015. Moreover, this arrangement for the Yerenai Foundation is under violation of Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018. According to 5018, if any foundation is transferred to a community, a community that is useful to the public, the state will oversee it. Law number 5018 commands it. However, 15 million liras to be transferred to Greenaya are being taken out of control. Why are you out of control? Here you are, laying the groundwork for corruption, corruption. That doesn't mean anything else. Another substance that could be the basis of corruption is the 25th article. It also rules that buildings owned by the Institute for Higher Education Loans and Dorms can also be run by the institution for construction, construction, construction, equipment, maintenance and repairs. However, they are already carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism under Article 20 of Law 351. If this Ministry isn't doing its job, it's against the law. In that case, there's a sign in the matter that I'd like to point out to you. There's a sign of construction outside the building. It is said that the construction of structured buildings and facilities can also be done by the institution. There is no notice in the first form of Article 20. So the Department of Environment and Urbanism isn't making it, they are. Now, it takes a blind eye to open a new space in the construction industry, which is one of the most important parts of these embezzlement corruption files. Another thing about this substance is it prepares its cover that steals the minaret. Despite its apparent violation of existing laws, according to public information and news reports on February 7, 2015, the Credit Homes Agency signed protocols with dozens of businessmen to build a 15-year rent-free housing. While these protocols clearly contradict the current state of Law 351, Article 25 of the proposal was included in the Commission with a motion. Another article is the 13th article. The proposal was included in the 10th article. After long discussions, it was made unrelated to its original form -- as Mr. Zozani just stated -- on the Commission, with a warning from the representative of the Ministry of Finance's National Real Estate General Directorate. Because the ruling party has no intention of heeding the warnings of the opposition and us. It was then restored to its present state. And that's a strange arrangement that won't cure any trouble. It was said that the land of 200,000 citizens, their buildings, has a zoning problem, and this is an arrangement that includes 9,000 acres of land and land. By December 31st 2015, there is no added value tax on these transactions and surrenders, under the exception of the added tax. However, we are learning that such statements have been hijacked, hijacked, corporations have been established, plots have begun to be bought, collected, in some hands, in some companies; the trampa issue will be held, then treasured, again given to the AKP-based municipalities, again given a price and commission, the price and commission will be acquired from the citizens. It's a total mystery, and there's an offer that's been set up for almost corruption. So let's make this very clear: first of all, if there's an arrangement of the Justice and Development Party, where there's an arrangement that leads to corruption, where there's a door opening, there's an order that needs to be looked at. Another arrangement is in Article 17. In areas where electricity is high in the number of missing fugitives, it is estimated that their lost targets will be redistributed for a period of time. We've got an interesting situation here. The article states that additional measures must be taken to deal effectively with losses and reduce casualties. Fighting a missing fugitive for the AKP has become more of a collection of missing money than an innocent citizen. With these regulations, you can't fight a missing fugitive, you only encourage a missing fugitive. The 17th article that was brought in is actually a provision that encourages loss and escape. This arrangement means that contracts made with distribution companies should be replaced by the determination of the missing fugitive rates. However, it violates the 10th and 15th Articles of the Public Contracts Act 4735. One thing we also want to emphasize is that these regulations are a confession that the government has failed to achieve its lost target in electricity, and it shows how wrong it is to privatize electricity distribution companies. There is damage due to the difference between the lost target and the fulfillment of electricity, but with the arrangement of the offer, the damage to the companies will be entirely on the shoulders and pockets of the citizens. However, Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, answered a written question motion on November 13, 2014, saying that, as a result of low performance, the additional cost of high missing fugitive levels will be covered by distribution companies in 2011-2015, as in 2006-2010. These additional costs are not reflected in consumers in any way, whereas the 17th article, the valued lawmakers, the Minister -- forgive me very much -- makes them a liar. There's also the rout part of this arrangement, but since we don't have the time, I hope I salute him to present him in the matter negotiations.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0139par0082	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Rahmi Kürelilıde, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0140par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on all of the proposals for the amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures No. 688. I hereby salute your high council. Yes, dear friends, we're up against another bag of law enforcement. This bag of laws has been passed over the case, for how many times have they been passed... and the Plan Budget Commission in particular, the bag has been passed outside the law. How we criticize this is common knowledge in both the General Assembly and the Commission. However, the bag of laws is persistently being enforced. First, we were talking about a bill of the bag law. At certain times, he can come as an offer, but the MPs can make an offer if they want to. We opposed it, we did our reviews on it. In fact, as chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there are motions for questions that I have submitted to Mr. Cemil Cicek. The last time you gave an answer, Mr. Yakut, with your signature, you're there to admit how wrong this method was, how wrong it was. Look, my dear friends, in the 22nd Legislature, the number of laws in the law was 2, the number of laws in the 23rd Legislature was 11, the number of laws in the 24th Legislature. However, there are three laws, the laws discussed here, and there's a bag of laws in Plan Budget above. When we assumed that there was no new law, he went up to 21, folded it to 2. Of course, there are statements from Mr. Cemil Cicek. What did he say in September 2014? ▪ We have not been able to make law enforcement efficient. So we took a strange detour and brought up an app like a bag of law. Gene, on almost the same day, the government spokesman Mr. Bkent Arinc said that Prime Minister Davutoglu noted similar problems regarding the bag of law proposals. Then, my dear friends, why is there still a bag of law coming? So, if everyone realizes that this method is wrong, there's no point in collusion in unrelated law and law enforcement here, first meeting at the Plan Budget Commission, and then coming here as a fundamental law, it's impossible to explain, but it's persistently brought here. And when we say that, can't lawmakers make an offer? Of course he can, guys, we have legal offers, but look, it's not a bag of law. As MP, the law can, of course, be prepared, but, no matter what, AKP lawmakers are offering bags of law. And when we meet on the Commission, we ask what the MPs say, they can't answer. They're forced to go out and get an opinion from the bureaucracy, where people from the relevant public institutions are responding. So it turns out that the bureaucracy actually created this, where the lawmakers were signed. Now, this is an extremely humiliating job when you look at it. I mean, we don't understand why such a method is so persistent. It's going on and on and on. Now that there's a bag of laws, there's a lot of different laws and laws in it, there's a change in the decree. There are tax exceptions and exemptions to association and foundations, a new university to build, publicization practices, Internet bans, electrical loss of costs, student dorms, whatever you can think of, all of which have been thrown into this law, and we are expected to discuss it here, in a healthy way, in a way that suits Congress, Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Now that I'm talking about it all, which one am I going to talk about? So there's so many different provisions -- 36 articles, 1 interim, 37 -- which one are we going to talk about? Another, of course, another problem, none of which are discussed in the commissions. Now look, the Plan Budget Commission shouldn't be a place where everything comes from, all irrelevant laws. The Plan Budget Commission is a constitutional commission, we accept, but there's no way of understanding that the laws that have nothing to do with us, which have nothing to do with the mandate of the Plan Budget Commission, are coming to us. Let's just say he's here, so at least he'll be seen on the commissions. In the relevant commissions, we would like to discuss the clauses that have come to us, essentially, in the commissions that are involved, an idea, an opinion, and we would like to talk about it. Well, is it? No. Unfortunately, this bag we're talking about, the law we're talking about right now, it's been sent to six commissions, delivered, and none of the six commissions have been interviewed. Three of them said: "It does not seem possible to meet within the period. " The Publicity, National Education and Internal Affairs Commissions. The Industrial Commission said: "We have a lot of work. We also have the Justice Commission and the Health Commission -- I'm shorting the commission names, so that we don't have a deadline -- we won't see each other either." So, guys, what kind of job is this? So how do you expect us to discuss this in good health? We also say on the commission, friends, take these, let them go to the relevant commission, and get out of there. Why are you bringing this to the Plan Budget Commission, we're trying to get everything out of the Plan Budget Commission, there's no way to figure it out. On the other hand, there is such a thing as a corrective effect analysis. Look, this is one of the greatest innovations that Law 5018 has ever brought. When a law comes in, if it creates a decrease in costs and revenues, if it changes the debt situation, it needs to be known what it brings and what it takes, the book of its account is made. And the same way that I asked the president of the TBM, Mr. President, the answer you gave and signed, so far -- friends, so far, I'm telling you -- there's not a single law in the 22nd, 23rd, 24th term that has been regulated. You won't find one law, friends; in bill or offer, not a single law. What they bring to the economy in the short term, in the long term, is that none of these books have been accounted for, what they bring to the budget is unknown, and when we ask about them in the Commission, we can't get the information, the answers. That's no way to run a government, fellas. Would such an illegitimate country be ruled? Now, if you'll excuse me for a few things. The 5th article is also related to the University of Health Sciences, 6, 7, 8th Articles. Now, friends, this was already part of a bill known as the University of Health Sciences (TÜSEB) Law, but after that, the group withdrew with its decisions and became law number 6569. It wasn't supposed to come up again, until it came back to the Plan Budget Commission's agenda in the bag of law. You guys know what this is? This was created by the University of Health Sciences: no camel, no bird, no ostrich; he's a freak. Now, there are two kinds of universities in our Constitution and all of our legislation: public universities, foundation universities. There are bodies of state universities, there are rectors, Article 13 of Article 2547, Article 14 of the Senate, Article 15 of the university board of directors. There's a board of trustees at foundation colleges. Now, this is brought in, dear friends, so-called state college, but there's a board of trustees. How can something like this happen, guys? There's no such thing. It's against the Constitution, it's against regulations, it's against everything, it's a freak case because it's counted, which is what organs are counted in the relevant law. Well, now, there are organs; there's a senate, there's a college board. How the decisions will be made, who will approve the budget, who will open the staff, all of them are defined, all of them defined, but you bring in the trustees, and you give the trustees some of those powers. On the other hand, what kind of trustee committee is this? It's made up of five people. The head of the Undersecretary of Health, the trustee, elects two people as Minister of Health, three, has already become three of the five, the chancellor, and one will be elected by the SEC. Oh, my friends, have mercy. I mean, you're bringing in a university in the guidance of the Minister of Health. Guys, the Department of Health can't be on the side. Look, all universities have medical schools, they have a health school, they have to be equal to all universities, the Ministry of Health. You're creating a structure -- interesting -- that shouldn't happen anyway, that's undefined in the Constitution, and you're setting up a political-effective university for the guidance of the Minister of Health. You can't do this, guys. You can't do this. This is clearly against the Constitution, contrary to Articles 130, 131 and 132 of the Constitution. Article 132 of the Constitution already states, my friends. Look, 130 describes 131. It defines higher learning institutions in 130. In 131, it defines the SEC, the upper board. In 132, the title says: "Those following special provisions from higher education institutions are those who are subject to special provisions. " In it, it says in the text of matter: ▪ Turkish Armed Forces and law enforcement institutes follow the special laws of higher education. • All other universities are defined in Article 130 and 131. The eighth joke of Article 130 of the Constitution states that the budgets provided by universities continue after the study and approval of the institute of higher education. Well, the clause in question included ratifying the university's budget proposal between the duties of this trustee committee. Now, I'm asking which will do it, will the Board of Higher Education approve it, or will the trustees approve it? Again, the final joke of Article 130 of the Constitution defines the higher education institutions established by the foundations and determines that they will be trustees. Now, when you look at it, you say it's a community college, but there's a board of trustees. There's no such thing, guys. See, the same in 131, the powers of the CEC and the powers of the trustee delegation conflict. I don't want to take up too much of my time, and I want to talk about other substances because I'm talking about all of them. As I said in that respect, this is clearly and clearly in violation of the Articles 130, 131 and 132 of the Constitutional Court, and it will also return from the Constitutional Court. Guys, please pull this stuff out. Pull this clause because, like I said, this is... this is... this is what I don't understand... so we're enjoying some of the laws that go to the Constitutional Court and then break down, people? We're lawmakers here, we want to make the best of the law, we want to make the most of it. That's why we exist, that's why we do legislature. We're all doing everything we can to help. We, the Republican People's Party, have a constructive sense of opposition here and at the commissions. Let us all solve the problems of the country together, but we will continue to be against the Constitution, against the law, against the law, against equality, against certain people, against certain groups, against certain individuals, against all kinds of laws, against all kinds of things, against all sorts of things. I'm going again to a non-constitutional clause, Article 26 of the Constitution. Under the private property of the citizen, no cost of publicisation or public service, is allowed to be tunneled under Article 2942, which is included in Article 4 of the Publicisation Act. That bag was already in the law that we discussed in the summer, friends, the bag, we discussed it in the law. It was the 99th article of Law No. 6552, dated September 10, 2014. So you're going over the property's land, either from the top or from the bottom. You build a cable car from the top, you know, I don't know, some kind of road, you cross a bridge, you look down, you go through something like a rail system. Now, we asked you, why did you bring this? They said, "We forgot the tunnel." Of course you forget. If we don't discuss these things seriously, if you bring such a bag of laws, if you don't listen to the opposition, they'll be passed immediately. This is how you forget them. In addition, there is no fee for -- I read that clause -- for this transaction, there is no publicisation, compensation and so on. There is a decree. We took this to the Supreme Court, and the Constitutional Court is waiting to discuss it, folks. Why are you bringing in something the Supreme Court is discussing, something it's on its agenda to discuss? The Constitutional Court will call it off because it limits the right to property on the property of the financier to any savings, sale, lease, and limited rights to establish the same rights. Once there's a loss of value in the move, and secondly, there's problems with the boundaries and the use of property rights. This may not come out today. For example, today from above, let's say you can cross a bridge, there, let's say the precedent in the settlement is five stories. Well, the day after tomorrow changed, the whole area went up to 10 floors. What's it gonna be? Are you going to be able to pass it, take it out, raise it up? No, because the facilities there are preventing you from using the property's property, your rights. So let's think about this: We're not just looking at today, the property right is as much about the future as it is today, and it determines the limits of that future right. When you look at it that way, as I said, both this and another necessary team of property rights are on the Supreme Court's agenda, so we don't understand why it's being brought back. Gene, there is the 27th article, which has been added to Law 5651 regarding the Internet bans, the removal of content and/or blocking access in situations where there is a problem with delay. Guys, the Constitutional Court broke it again here. So you can't just hand over the jurisdiction to the administration, you can't transfer it to the TİB. But what's going on here? We did not hand it over to TİB. They say that the Prime Minister or a concerned minister has come and applied to TİB. That's not what we're saying, that's not what we're saying, guys. We say that these things should be carried out by judgment. As I said, it's clearly against the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court is going to break, and it's already broken. It continues, the third article: it defines a model of public-private cooperation defined in health as "struct-private co-operation." Guys, we're done talking about this model. We say this model is the wrong model. Public infrastructure investments should be made public, done with budgetary resources. What are you doing here? A model called Yamarala, does not make city hospitals out of a government investment programme, no money comes out of its pocket at first glance, then you open it, someone buys it, and then you pay for it for up to thirty years. The rent you're paying is also increased as much as inflation, and the exchange rate is increased if there's a dry rise. There's no model like that. Do you have the regulatory effect analysis of this? What does it bring, what does it cost? Because, look, guys, there's 34 projects, the total cost is $30 billion. They're a conditional liability. This means that there may be no obligation at the moment, but in any case, what happens when a person leaves this place during this 30-year lease period? They're guaranteed treasure, my friends, they're guaranteed treasure. That's not gonna happen. This model is the wrong model. What the public needs to do is to invest in the necessary infrastructure. He also invests in private sectors, foreign trade; he makes production, he goes to manufacturing industries, he exports. There's no such thing here. What's being brought in now? When the tenders are conditioned, the case will be lifted from Turkey, and our country's courts will be invalidated. What do you mean, friends? What is it? There are statements made by the Ministry of Health representative in the Plan and Budget Commission, and cases are long in Turkey. He says, "The foreigners do not trust Turkish courts." Is that even possible, my friends, is that possible? What do you mean foreigners don't trust Turkish courts? Look, all the reviews we've been saying from the beginning are coming out one by one. This model is the wrong model. The last one to be brought here is absolutely wrong, leaving the courts in Turkey dysfunctional. I mean, it's an investment in Turkey, why shouldn't it be seen in a Turkish court, why would it be seen in foreign courts, friends? Turkey has a trial, Turkish courts do their justice on behalf of the Turkish nation. After all, you wrote it, a source comes out of the budget, you gave it to someone. Let's just say he's a Turk, but he's in debt, he's in debt, he's in debt, but you can't sit down and lean on his financing model. There are arrangements for the Red Moon and the Green. It's got a lot of stuff in it. For example, the 4th article, the 15 million-dollar grant to the Green Moon Foundation... The budget for every year. When was this Green Moon Foundation founded? 2/12/2014. Newfound friends, let's have a look. From the beginning, we always say, "Where is this from? What is this Green Moon Foundation? He already has the Green Moon Society. The Red Moon Society, the Green Moon Society, all right, where did the foundation come from? I mean, you're already providing exceptions, exemptions from a lot of taxes, but beyond that, exceptions, exemptions aren't enough, you're giving them altitudes in non-moving goods, up to forty-nine years -- it's not enough -- it's in these materials -- and you're putting 15 million on top. It's definitely wrong, it needs to be taken off the bill. Gene, the 14th article provides a forty-nine-year non-existent right of altitude over the removals of property to the treasury and public and institutional institutions. For one thing, why no charge, one; why only these institutions? Look, we're saying that these institutions, of course, have both the functions of the Kızılay Society and the Green Moon Society, and we're not against it, but there are other institutions, friends, and associations that work for the public. Look, I'll tell you: there's a Law on Obligation of Some Taxes and Institutions, 11/7/1972, and 1606. Article 1 of this law counted some institutions: Turkey's Kızılay Association includes the Yeşılay Association. But you know what else? There's the Turkish Air Agency, there's Turkey's Helpers' Association, there's official derural institutions, and there's the Darşafaka Society. Well, if you've got one, let's give it to them. We don't understand why you only give it to the Green Moon Society, give it to the Red Moon Society. Gene, there's a changing method of calculating the missing price of electricity. These are from the designated EPDK, you can't change them, guys. The Law on Public Contracts No. 4735 determines on what conditions to change the contract under Article 15, and otherwise you cannot change it. The 10th article also considers reasons to be overwhelming. But, as I said, these are -- they're said to be related to three of these 21 distribution companies at the moment -- none of them would go for a reason -- that's what's going on there, that's what's being told us, that's what's being done there -- and as I said, there's no changing the contract, they can't change it. Other than that, there are other substances that are already troubled. In this regard, we say that all of these substances must be removed from this text of the law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0141par0114	Thank you. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who asked for a personal word. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0142par0117	Isn't that in favor first, Mr. President? The practice is usually first the speech of the speaker in favor, then the government speaks, and the last word is the last speaker to speak against the MP. It's the general practice, but it's yours. I don't know if there's a talker in the field.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0143par0118	I do.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0141par0119	No, I mean, it's not an issue against you, but we're going by order here. But if you want Mr. Erdöl to speak first... Here you go, Mr. Erdöl.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0144par0121	On a general request? Yeah, sure.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0145par0123	But, yes, it is, the opposition in favor...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0144par0124	Especially if they want me to.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0146par0125	So much is accepted, Mr. Erdöl. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0144par0128	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin, I salute you all. I wish you a healthy, happy long life. If only this law had reached the March 14th Day of Medicine, it did not. Hopefully, with your contribution, we'll pass this law. I hereby bless those of the medics who will live forever. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the 18 March Çanakkale Sea Victory. I hereby cherish and thank all our martyrs, both in the Battle of Salvation and in other times, during the victory of Çanakkale Sea. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been living people for nearly 13 years so that the state can live. Under the principle of health, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has signed very important laws. In the 22nd term, in the 23rd term and in this period, as a longtime head of the Health Commission, we greatly contributed to these laws. I offer my regards and thanks to all my fellow lawmakers who have contributed on this occasion, on behalf of my people. In particular, I'd like to remind you once again that health and social security are the issues that have to go on horseback. In particular, I would like to remind you again that health presentation and accessibility are very important, especially in countries where health is good but social security is not good. In countries where social security is very good and health care is not good, health care is taken from abroad. Needless to say, healthcare is bad, social security is bad. There are rare countries in the world where both health care presentation and social security are very good; one is Turkey. I'd like to express that with great pleasure here. In particular, I would like to give you two examples of the point in our country where radical changes have been made, such as combining hospitals, family medicine, general health insurance, social security. Until 2002, there was a period when there was virtually no way to get to an ambulance from one place to the other, and those who could afford it gave gas money to ambulances. Now we're a country with an air ambulance system that we show by imitating other countries. With helicopters and jet ambulances, we can pick up patients from across the country, out of the country, and send patients. It's really one of the things that many countries are proud to follow us about. Another issue is that, again, a Tepecik Hospital in İzmir, for example, has become a health centre where a small bowel transplant was performed successfully, where stem cell applications have been successfully implemented, at the point where the recent changes occurred. As a matter of fact, I don't see the need to mention city hospitals and other changes in health here anymore, we're all going through this. I'd like to make a brief statement about the law. I'll tell you what, folks, about the offer we're talking about, we're all gonna sign a very good law together. This is an act of goodness from our people. The University of Health Sciences, which will be established with your precious votes, will be a university that, just as our esteemed MP friend said, will be subject to the law of the law, which, contrary to the rules of the law, will be added to the Law of Higher Education Institutions, a university which will be established, and will be a university that will not be enforced except by the rules of the YOK. I'd like to correct my deputy: the Health Department will be at all universities not equal distances, but equal proximity.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0147par0137	Same thing.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0144par0138	Yeah, it'll be evenly related. But our point of view is a little different. There'll be an equally close university and the Ministry of Health. Of course the Ministry of Health will be equal to all our universities. Here's what I have to say: we're starting a medical school in Istanbul. The first building of modern medical school, the first building to be implemented, the medical school, is being handed over to this medical school. Another important change: the medical school, which is licensing training, will be conducted only in Istanbul. In addition, educational hospitals that provide nearly half of all Turkish expertise training will be linked to this university under a roof and umbrella. In 59 educational research hospitals, they will continue to receive special training, as they used to, but the difference is that those who are professors will be assigned to the professorship staff, they will be assigned to the professorship staff, so now, with the ear backwards, a person who is in an x hospital -- who will not go to the Y university to become a professor, at the hospital where he is, at the hospital where he is, will be assigned to the professor staff, depending on the university. I'd like to say that this is both important in terms of their rights and very important in raising the level of education of those hospitals. The other thing is the change in the law about midwifes. Our nurses can become attending nurses, they can get a master's degree, they can get a PhD, they can become a professor, but our midwives who had almost the same training had no rights. That's what the law says. From now on, our midwives will be offered a clear way of becoming a professor, who will be able to get a master's degree and a doctor's degree. And what's to be done? These expert midwives will have successfully done patient information and patient training, which will reduce C-section rates to as little as possible. As a matter of fact, I'd like to point out that Redbeard is an important institution, a branded institution that feeds on aid. I don't know, Redbeard pays taxes on humanitarian activities, he makes tents, he pays taxes, I don't know, blankets, he pays taxes. You have to save the Red, because in the services of these humanitarian aid activities, the Red Sea is given a tax ease, and it's also made possible for itself to allocate buildings from the resources of the state, to allocate land. Here's the thing: Kızılay wants to build a blood center, he wants to open a blood center, but in the center of the city, a government institution building stands to be thrown out, can't be given to Redaya. Redbear will buy it with money, Redbear will rent it. We all need blood work. So that's what's being brought to the Red Sea. In the same way, I'd like to point out that Yerewa is a roofing organisation in Turkey that fights addiction, which is the biggest problem of youth all over the world, and it's an organization that all people, all of our people, need. The following is: Whether it's tobacco, alcohol, drugs, or volatile substances, what we now call Internet addiction, e-dependence, everyone needs Greenea in the fight against them. Because when a person whose child is in his house takes the computer, the child flies away from him and goes on-line somewhere else. It's a huge task for Greena so that our children can get away with drugs, drugs, gambling, alcohol, not to get involved in tobacco, volatile substances. All NGOs are in charge, but they need a lot of opportunity to be able to carry out these activities as a roofing organisation. Now, that's the real joke of this greenian financial opportunity and other possibilities, and I'm offering it to your appreciation. Mr. President, dear friends, I've probably been giving my final speech as a friend of yours who's been serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for nearly 13 years now, because I'm not going to be able to speak on schedule anymore. I urge all of you to grant your rights because I need you, Mr. President, the Presidential Court, and my fellow lawmakers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0148par0147	I'll open it because you'll give me your blessing. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0144par0149	...the bureaucrats and stenographers, my dear friends, may be that we have offended each other without anyone understanding, so I wish you all to give us your rights again. I give you my regards. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm sure your support for this law will be returned to you in gratitude by your children and grandchildren, and you will be thanked. I thank everyone who contributes, and I pay my respects, sir. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0149par0154	God bless us, Mr. Erdöl. Now, Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for a word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0150par0158	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Sure, I got my word on bag number 688. Mr. Erdöl was our President of the Health Commission in the 22nd term, giving a farewell speech. He cut us off, too, but a friend tells us pain, he tells the truth. With all due respect, Mr. President, we have differences in certain matters, different opinions. Of course, this bag of legislation -- friends before you, almost three speakers -- came as an offer, signed by a friend or friend group, not only does it change the way it is a government bill, but it is a law proposal given as an expression of embarrassment against what Mr. Arinc, the Speaker of Parliament, had said earlier. Now, dear friends, I don't know what we can say when this is actually considered a proposal, whether it's in the inside or the bill of law, 25-26 is a 36-point law that changes the law or the law of law, so soup is not the law, so I don't know what to say. In his speech, Mr. Erdöl said that the University of Health Sciences, which is included in this bill, is connected to the NGO, and that whatever the rules that the universities in the SEC are subject to, it will carry those rules, but this is a university that is far away from autonomy, and that other universities' autonomy is controversial, and we're going to stay in Turkey, and we're going to say, "We're going to stay in Turkey." Such a university also discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, a university that is not possible to be in Turkey or in a country run by democracy. On the other hand, of course, I participate in the part where the talk is associated with nurses, and we, as opposition parties, didn't say anything to him, but it's not in the original spirit of this law that there's an arrangement for the rights of nurses or midwifes. I'm not going to say this torpedo anymore, but the arrangements that exist within the soup offer, the regulations that have been made several times, three or four times, which are the latest by the Supreme Court, which you insist, as a finger to my blind eye, are the most important of all, the arrangement for the Internet access that you put in front of the House. On the other hand, dear friends, Mr. Erdöl said that everyone, especially Greenea, might need it. Yes, we all need green. So, what's the Green Moon Foundation? What need did he come from? Why do you build the Green Moon Foundation by leaning against Redbear and Greenea, when you can stand the Green Moon? Somebody give me an answer. TERGEV is worn out. TÜRGEV was a foundation in which his son or relatives, relatives, a few of my fellow MPs were involved, exposed in public. Now, Mr. Erdöl, I've passed Greenbear's corporate law. Some of the laws number 6487 and the amendment to the 375 Code of Law have been set up within three months in accordance with the Law. When? May 2013. Now, you're building the foundation, the founder of the foundation, the trustees, the trustees, you don't know who it is, you don't know the management, you don't have the foundation, you're moving 15 million out of the budget. Dear friends, this is really, literally, a public-owned, treasured property, public-owned move-ins, public-substantiated, public-substantiated assets, and even the General Directorate of the Foundation of the Foundation of Foundations, to be built by the Greenay Foundation for forty-nine years, or by the Greenay Foundation, or by the Red Moon, to lean on what I'm telling you -- a network of corruption is meant to be built by the name of two goods that have been placed in the service of the people. This is not acceptable. You'll see, the Green Moon Foundation is just as controversial as TERGEV, and it's going to get stuck in the swamp. Dear friends, Mr. Türeli has just told me what these arrangements are. See, the 17th article in it -- if I'm not mistaken -- is about the missing fugitive. Now, during the privatisation of electricity, you said it would be all good, all good. There's a good joke about him, not the place. Now, the missing fugitive rates are clear, the risk areas are clear, and while the situation is clear there, the contractor has entered the tender, received the tender. Now, because there are imbalances in the missing fugitive rates, you attempt to give the EPDK the authority to redefine the values there. Yeah, there was a tender, he entered those conditions knowingly, he got the contract, there's profit in trade, there's loss. I don't have to pass on government support, public support to protect someone. Now, what you're doing is confusing the law with corruption in a privatisation tender. By law, by law, you're changing that privatisation contract in favor of the person -- not in favor of the country. That's not acceptable either. Dear friends, we have brought the exception of VAT to the girl. Guys, when did Redbeard come to mind recently, the agenda? In the name of Riza Sarraf recently came to the attention of Abdullah Happani, who was given interest grants by Abdullah Happani, who, on December 17th and 25th, shared cartoons about corruption and bribery operations on social media, you fired Dr. Sherafettin's sword at the Isparta Blood Donation Centre, who threw him out as RedAY. So what else has the Redbeard come up with recently? In recent years, he's come up with corruption. I mean, of course, we protect these high-profile institutions as much as you do, dear friends, don't you doubt it. Dear friends, for example, there are arrangements that we never object to. As a party, we and the other opposition parties did not object to the organisational regulations of the Ministry of Youth and Sports law as a product of necessity. But you're constantly looking for a runt transfer to one side by making arrangements with such a bag of laws. See, I come to you on the basis of the fact that you are in the middle of your power -- because you are in the middle of your power -- you have transferred 5 million, unit, institutional institutions in 2006, 7 million in 2007 -- 55 million in 2008, 88 in 2009, 88 in 2010, 172 million in 2011 and 449 in 2012, 449 in 2013. Who is this institution, the foundation, the crates? Neither the ministers answer the questions, nor the Prime Minister answers the questions, nor the President of the Commission answers them. There's also a pen for other people; there's 2 million, 2 million, 2 million, 3 million, 3 million, 11 million, 54 million, and then suddenly up to 435 million in 2013. In the first nine months of 2014, the association, the union, the donations to institutions, aid, and assistance from the treasury were 902 million liras. Friends, now, Redaya, Greenaya, yes, we do, but other than that -- my friend just named it -- there are a lot of public institutions that operate in public interest, help the poor, help the poor, make poor students read, support the community of modern life, ADD, or so on. Now, if you get up and try to transfer the treasure's assets to the Green Moon Foundation, there's a shadow in this law. Dear friends, let me tell you something about the law that I just said, really, after you put the establishment of the Green Moon Foundation in law on May 23, 2013, if in three days you've established this foundation and brought it to the agenda of the House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...all AKP MPs have to ask, "What is this?" There should be no such law for him, such a law does not apply to the Republic of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0151par0175	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0152par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the AKP MPs have been in demand of halalism for some time now. I, for one, have no right to those who have earned the right to a slave, who have cleared the 17-25 December operations and the corruption there and who tolerate violence at every opportunity. We will question them in this world in judgment, and in the next, we will refer them to God.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0151par0180	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0153par0182	Mr. Secretary, with this bag of laws, you're putting the missing fugitive rates on our citizen's back, and you're trying to exempt the power distribution companies. As my friend has just explained, these distribution companies, when they were given to these companies, they had a contract condition, they competed on equal terms, they were bided on these companies, along with other companies. From now on, I think it's against the Law of Contraction to change it. And it's wrong to combine the missing fugitive and expose the fugitive as if it were a natural cause. Loss in electrical transmission lines is an acceptable ratio of three to seven percent of the world's standards. The fugitive is a stolen property, and he gets something that someone else steals or uses for free. You make it legal when people need to pay, when they need to pay the price, and you're exempting the power distribution companies. You're not going to be able to...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0154par0187	Yes, thank you. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0155par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you about the public-private cooperation model: Now, there are three ways: do-work, do-work-development, and what we just talked about. How many projects were done with these three methods, and in summary, with this model? What's the total amount of these projects? Is there a treasure guarantee for these projects so far, if there is, what's the amount? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0156par0192	Yes, thank you. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0157par0194	Yeah, I'm still on the loose. In the case of the missing fugitive, the province of Alexei is seen with an average of 6.4, far below the standards of the European Union and the world. What is the sin of the people of Kopeeli that you make all the fugitives in Turkey pay? In this law, why do you cause an injustice in this bag and then ask us to go out on the stand and give our rights? Is it possible for us to give you our rights when we're so hard on the citizens? Is it possible, Minister, that if you pay the people of Kopeeli for the electricity that many people use as illegals, we can give you our rights?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0156par0196	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0158par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. He explained in an interview published on US Secretary of State John Kerry CBS, that he had to negotiate with President Bezar Assad to end the Syrian crisis, that he had failed earlier because Assad had not been willing to negotiate the war. Over the past months, the project details of the project were agreed between the United States and Turkey in training Syrian dissidents under the Educ-Donat Project in Turkey, and the memorandum of agreement on this issue was signed by US Ambassador to Ankara John Bass and Turkish Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs Feridun Neryoglu. Is there a study under Project Educated Donat? If so, how many have been trained so far? How are these trainings provided by whom? What are these trained soldiers...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0159par0202	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0160par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I can't...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0161par0206	Who are these weapons being supplied by? As part of this Educ-Donat Project, how do you assess John Kerry's above statements? Will Turkey's Syrian policy change in this direction?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0162par0207	Mr. Lightning, I promised Mr. Horseman. We'll extend the deadline, Mr. Pitcher, and I promise you again. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0163par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the AKP government brought in a bill to establish the chairmanship of the Turkish health institutes a few months ago, and the establishment of the University of Health Sciences was part of the bill. However, due to the busy agenda of the Assembly, the law could not and could not be discussed. At the time, the Minister of Health said he had taken our objections into consideration, saying he had withdrawn the process of establishing the University of Health Sciences and that he wanted to deal with us. We applauded the Minister of Health's position and thought he was paying attention to our objections, but now we understand that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been deceived, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been misled. That law at the time was used to get passed so quickly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And then we see that this law is reassembled into this bill with a new clause.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0164par0214	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0165par0216	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary through you. In the district of Anamur, my constituency district, it has been claimed that our citizens have lost their lives in the last week on the charge of swine flu, and just yesterday, a 30-year-old lawyer died of swine flu, and there are allegations that it is hidden from the public and that there are no measures taken. Is there any progress on this subject, or does your Ministry know about it? Do you intend to take any precautions?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0164par0218	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0166par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are health arrangements in this bill. First of all, the University of Health Sciences has been brought here under a bag of legislation once again, and we said that there would be no state university within the system that the foundations are applying on our objections, but now, there is a university proposal that applies the system of foundations. Do you intend to make this unconstitutional offer? Second of all, how many people still work for the Department of Health as surrogates and nurses? Does the Ministry have a study of staff demands and rights? The third question is that it is unclear whether a large number of members of the Ministry of Health are civil servants, workers, or in what status. They're entitled to...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0167par0225	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0168par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. 2,831 miners were laid off on December 1st, and workers have since been unable to receive severance pay. And again, on 1 December 2014, we are on the subject of the Council of the Government's Speaker, Mr. Bkent Arinc. We'll figure it out. There's an explanation in the name of the government. And on February 10th, when workers visited political party groups in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Justice and Development Party Deputy Director Mustafa Elitaş said they would do the necessary work needed to arrange the issue. Currently, workers are standing, waiting for the arrangements to be made for severance pay. Does the government have a study or not, or what will be its position? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0169par0230	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0170par0232	Minister, Turkey uses the most expensive electricity in Europe. While citizens all over the country were paying for their electricity, you were unable to privatize companies, the TEDAS, because they could not be paid in some places. In privatized areas, quality electricity is not available for citizens. It needs to be stitched up, the poles need to be renovated, not renovated. They have to put a transformer in public, get the transformer to the citizens. At the checkpoint, the government burdens the citizens because they can't control the companies they've given them. What kind of work do you intend to do on solving this injustice?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0169par0233	Thank you. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0171par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in Article 9 of this law proposal we're talking about, 25 percent of the teachers and administrators in the schools and institutions where students in need of special education are trained... these classrooms have been closed, you know, and there are courses in place. The manager, teacher, and other staff there also receive an additional 100 per cent payment, which means additional tuition is being paid. Why don't you think about bringing this extra tuition for all the teachers? Because the extra tuition is between $9.8 and $9.73. It's extremely low. I mean, why is it that only the people here are taking advantage of it, and the others aren't? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0172par0238	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, there are questions about this missing fugitive, about the electricity market. As you know, the arrangements for these matters are not an added burden; rather, a demonstration is an arrangement for a representation of costs. A reorganisation is being made because this has caused some difficulties in the courts. The arrangements for the collection of information given in a specific detail. There's a certain number of casualties and fugitives all over the world. Of course, it's ideal to reduce it to the lowest levels. In this sense, in fact, the privatisation of distribution contracts is a positive step. Over time -- there's a performance indicator here -- you know -- they have to reduce the missing fugitive. If they don't, the contractors here will have to pay the price. So, in time, we expect these missing fugitives to descend to lower levels. A transition process, no doubt, is not an easy process. We know that rates are particularly high in our specific areas. It's going to take some time to narrow it down from here to a more reasonable rate, but we have to do that, too. So, in order to achieve a more balanced distribution across Turkey, as an energy-addicted country, we care very much about this transformation process so that we can use energy more efficient, more efficient, more efficient. I believe we're going to have better points in a certain process, both in terms of balance and efficiency. On the other hand, they were asked about the building-work, the building-work, the do-or-care issues. Very detailed, of course. As of right now, I can tell you the number on these do-and-restraints in health. So far the contract for 17 public-private hospitals has been signed, and there's no guarantee of a treasure around here, it's just a promise of rent, in a sense, a pledge to pay rent. Of course, there's a wider area. In total, as I recall, we're talking about a package that's over $100 billion in contract amounts, but it's better to present very detailed numbers in a healthier way. Of course, I'm not talking about the amount of investment, I'm talking about the amount of contract. I mean, with that investment...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0174par0244	Is there a treasure guarantee here?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0245	In some cases, of course, there are, of course, different features in different projects. On the other hand, Mr. Lightning has raised a question about foreign policy, concerning US policy in Syria. Of course, each country has its own national interests to determine policies. We're approaching it in our own national interest.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0175par0247	But he's cooperating with the U.S.A.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0248	Different approaches can also be developed at different times. As a country, we follow policies by maintaining stability in our region, taking into account the unity and integrity of Syria. Of course, it's very important for us that the problem there is resolved immediately. We want this to happen as best we can. Of course, we can cooperate with other countries where our national interests are intertwined, but at the same time, we do what our own national policy requires. We, in this sense, have no doubt to maintain our flexibility in foreign policy. If the United States of America and our national interests are in sync at a certain point, of course we can cooperate, but in another matter, our own policy can be divided, we can follow policy in a different way. This is a subject that must be evaluated in each event at some point and time. In foreign policy, we never hesitate to take steps in whatever our own interests require. Of course, on the one hand, we apply it in our general policy framework, not forgetting our principles. Regarding health care, again the University of Health Sciences withdrew, and why did it come back? Mr. Shotman had a question. Our Minister withdrew it from a bill of law at that time. I understand that he prefers the bill to run faster, but it's not going to happen again. So we did this, and we're not going to bring it back. Our friends said there was no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0176par0250	It's very AKP-like.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0251	On the other hand, this law has not come from our Minister, it is a proposal from our MPs, and we must consider it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0177par0252	The Constitution withdrew it on grounds of violation.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0176par0253	Mr. Secretary, at least don't say that. You're not dealing with stupid people, you're dealing with lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0254	As for Anamur, I've been informed that one person died of swine flu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0178par0255	There's one in the body and two in the coma.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0173par0256	We need to use these issues, gossips, different phrases, open issues, careful expressions. We can't talk about any common circumstances here. Perhaps, very soon, our Ministry of Health will inform the public in a healthier way. To date, in Turkey, when you look at the collection, 12 people have died from the past to the present. So we can't talk about a very common epidemic. But our Ministry of Health will make a much more detailed statement public. When we comment on these issues, it is greatly beneficial for us to be sensitive and to honor the statements made by our authority institutions regarding the lives of our citizens. On the other hand, there were statements from Mr. Izlight regarding the breach of the Constitution of this foundation's university. Of course, we don't think so. At first, there was a management that our Minister of Health was involved in. Some necessary renovations were done there in the Commission's work. In this case, we consider it to be in accordance with the Constitution. On the other hand, there are 560 people working as substitute midwife and nurse at the Ministry of Health. The application is planned to continue in need. As of now, this is the approach of our Ministry of Health. Again, Mr. Türeli said, "Why don't all teachers' additional tuitions increase by 100 per cent?" Schools for support and education are courses that are opened without cost from the student at the request of students, which is described in this way. It is intended to encourage teachers who will take part in these courses. These courses aim to increase additional tuition fees for teachers. So there's a particular purpose in this arrangement. On the other hand, we talked about Anamur. Mr. Akçay asked me a question about Soma, but I don't have any detailed information at the moment. Then, in writing, I think the final situation can be expressed to our deputy in a healthier way. Here, again, not all places about energy were privatized. As a matter of fact, as of distribution, everything's privatized, there's no more privatisation, it's finished. On the other hand, were investments being made? Each firm has an investment obligation, they have to do it, and they have to invest in a certain amount every year. Of course, if there's any shortages here, if there's any defects, then I'm thinking that through concrete information, our Department of Energy about them might be able to do the necessary work, the intervention. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0266	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0180par0267	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, even though the ethical reasons for the incident in the district of Anamur of Mersin have not been determined in the past week... I am a man who has seen the means and the deceased, and I ask God's mercy on those who have died. There's no real cause of death here in four cases, but there's a widespread belief that they died due to swine flu in the county, where the citizen is in an infinitive state. So, especially in public transportation, in public places, in schools, everyone's very concerned. Maybe it's another viral infection, although the cause may not be obvious, and since it's an event that starts sudden and causes people to die in a short period of time, I think we need to be sensitive at the point of measures that need to be taken. Is there a break for schools, a consultation with the city, a councilman? The public accepts these people because they died of swine flu. So...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0270	Yes, thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0181par0271	Mr. President, in one sentence...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0272	Minister, you've answered before. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0182par0276	Mr. President, roll call...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0277	The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I'm going to vote on your terms; there's a roll call, and I'm going to do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Elector, Mr. Ater, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Akçay and Mr. Belen. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0183par0287	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0288	Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1 to 16th article. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0291	Mr. President, we can't go through the clauses because of Article 35...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0179par0292	Just a second... let me get the mike on, according to him, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. We can't move on to the provisions because there are some other clauses that have come to the Commission beyond the proposed proposal, even though they're not present there. Therefore, it is not possible to pass. Article 35 does not allow a new clause in the Commission. Therefore, the Speaker also has a report to the Commission, and there is no regulation in this, which is stated that the Commission will set its own agenda on the basis of Article 26. Thus, such a right does not eliminate Article 26 of Article 35. Therefore, this is not possible to discuss.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0185par0297	Call off the commission.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0298	He needs to withdraw to the commission.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0299	Yes, thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. We've already agreed to have it passed on to our earlier ballots.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0301	No, sir. Now, we may have agreed to transfer the materials, but...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0302	Sir, the General Assembly has agreed, rather.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0187par0303	They're late, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0304	No, we're not late.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0305	No, it's not a matter of being late, Mr. Halaçoglu, we can't move on to the things you said. You said that the General Assembly agreed to move on to their articles, but that's another matter, as you say...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0306	The General Assembly may have agreed, but you can't do anything against the Charter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0307	Now, Mr. Halaçoglu has sent the file back to the Commission to be reevaluated due to the violation of the new proposals submitted by the Plan and Budget Commission, which were submitted by the Plan and Charter Commission on the Amendment to some Law and Law Charter, which is the main part of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (2/2616). Despite this warning issued by the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, he has demanded that the report be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, arguing that he had not made any irregular procedures. There is no clear ruling on the President's authority in the Civil Code. In view of past practices, it has also been noted that, at times, in violation of the 35th Amendment clause of the Civil Code, the commission reports on the draft or proposals have been sent back to relevant commissions to assess them, but the Speaker of Parliament has no authority except to inform the commissions that they have not made any changes in their reports and that they have not made any mistakes in their procedures. Our presidency is not authorized to adopt a bill or a proposal that has been launched into the agenda and started negotiations -- the main issue is already here -- or to return it to the commission. He has done his part in the House of Parliament, and he is the ruler of the Commission's agenda. We don't have the authority to return a bill or a proposal to the commission, which has been discussed and discussed and started negotiations. The opinions expressed here will be assessed by the commission and lawmakers. The decision to withdraw to the commission, or to change or reject the bill is also in accordance with the Supreme Assembly's discretion, and there is nothing to be done.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0310	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0311	Then why do we need the Charter?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0312	That's our view, and there are previous applications.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0313	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0314	Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0315	A repeat of a previous error cannot be shown as a procedure.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0316	I get it, but...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0317	Excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0318	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0319	Secondly, I mean, if he's not going to implement the Charter, then why is there a commission or the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Charter?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0320	Mr. Halaçoglu, let me tell you again: We have no authority to take or take or return a bill or offer to the commission, which has now entered into the agenda and has begun its negotiations. Whose authority is this? The powers to withdraw are your commission and the General Assembly's on the other side. The authority to change the government's bill and reject it is the High Assembly's.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0321	Mr. President, in that case, there's an article written by the President. If this is not implemented, is there a verdict on the implementation of the presidency?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0186par0322	Sir, if you'd like, I'd like to open up a discussion. That's my opinion.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0184par0323	Then we'd like to discuss it in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0188par0324	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0189par0325	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0190par0326	At the end of the day, sir...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0191par0327	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0192par0328	Against...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0193par0329	Four parties between you, I promise. Lehte, Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0194par0335	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my views in favour of the position of the President in the procedure hearing. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, Mr. Halaçoglu has voiced an objection to the fact that part of the legislation discussed by the Commission is not included in the text, so the bill cannot be discussed here and must be extradited to the Commission. Now, basically, at this point, the leadership of the National Movement Party Group has an application of the issue of this objection, including allegations of disintegration from the Constitution, dated February 12, 2015. On top of that, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is sending objections to the Plan and Budget Commission -- which is the main commission on all these objections. And the Commission, in its exact response here, we have studied these objections, and since the clauses on the proposal are directly or indirectly related to the integrity of the provisions made with these proposals...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0195par0338	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0194par0339	For this reason, there is nothing against the procedure and the Constitution or the Civil Code. He reports to Parliament in his February 18, 2015 article. And the Speaker of Parliament, again, gives the National Movement Party an additional article, detailing all the answers given by this Commission on February 20, 2015. Dear friends, we've had a few similar discussions before, you know. Now, according to Article 35, the commission has the authority to combine the bills and proposals it sees involved. The 26th article also states that the second joke states that the commission can decide on jobs that have been proposed by its members undermining its agenda. I believe there is no contrary to the Civil Code, nor to the Constitution, that the motions given by members on the issues that are seen as closely related to the issue of this proposal should be passed again by the commission and amended here as a clause. However, according to Article 81, these objections would have been met and would have been extradited to the Commission if it had not been approved. However, the General Assembly's will has been granted -- not even the Commission's report, not the General Assembly's report -- the Supreme General Assembly's will was at the point of discussion of this report. Basically, the presidency has no right or authority to return its commission report to the commission. Thus, the position of our presidency at which these talks are being carried out says that it is appropriate, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0196par0345	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has made a promise against my conviction. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0197par0349	Mr. President, most of all, I don't agree with what Mr. Kubat. Because the Commission's report states that these articles are not contrary to Article 35 of the Charter. Here, he has the entire 26th agenda of the Commission, and he decides on the work proposed by his members. He based on the decree. However, Article 35 eliminates each one of them because the 35th article clearly states exactly that the Commissions cannot offer the law except in the special case of Article 92. You have now proposed the law, and then you base it on the 26th article. You won't abide by the Open and Clear Charter, so why is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey making laws, called legislatures? None of this is true. See, the Parliamentary Presidency's report, dated 17/02/2015, also states that Articles 2, 22, 23, 24, 24, Articles 375 have changed the Law on Health Ministry Institutions 209, and none of these are actually included in the previous bill. But you kept it here, you put it in here, you put it in there. There's no way that these substances can be brought up in any way according to Article 35, because they've made it clear to you here. What is Article 92? It's about the death penalty. So they can't offer any law other than that. Now, sir, you've proposed the law, brought it up against the Charter, submitted it to the House, refused to be Speaker of Parliament. I thought you swore on the law. Didn't we swear on our honor and honor here? Then why are there regulations, why are we making laws? None of this makes any sense, so let's not discuss any commissions. What you're offering here includes 29 articles, clearly and clearly, other than that, you've raised it to 37 articles, put in non-existent substances, and then you say, "That's it. Mr. President, if the presidency can't decide whether or not to meet in situations like this, why are you there, for what reason?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0198par0351	That's the paper dispatcher, the paper dispatcher!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0197par0352	I mean, for God's sake, don't! If we're talking about Parliamentary administration, the Parliamentary administration must act according to the Charter. If the Charter is being broken here, you need to take the same action on whether you're warning someone or making decisions. I have no authority, I cannot send it back. Unfortunately, such a word as this is not appropriate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0199par0354	Thank you. Idris Baluken, Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0200par0357	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It may have appeared to be in favor, but if God had written it in the proceedings conducted by Mr. Faithful Yakut, I would say so. In your management style since February 17th, you have had an attitude that completely puts the Civil Code on the shelf. So, he may have been only in favor of taking words, but I'd like to say that I'm against your attitude today. Here, speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party, the speaker has made it clear that there is a violation of the Civil Code. A proposal sent to the Commission under 29 articles has 37 articles of recommendation to the General Assembly. The Civil Code clearly contradicts Article 35. The Presidential Court does not have such authority. It is not true to say that the Presidential Court is also in charge of overseeing the General Assembly's own work, according to the Civil Code. Thus, we feel that the situation regarding the infraction of non-proposal substances is contrary to the Civil Code, and that is not the way any further talks should be held. The Commission has only the agenda of the commission. If all problems are to be solved by its statement, then there is no basis for the Civil Charter here in the General Assembly, and there is no need to pay any attention to it. We can't possibly participate in something like this. Of course, the main problem here is that we're dealing with problems involving the ruling party's way of making laws; that's the main problem. The ruling party, unfortunately, has made it a habit to collect some unrelated law proposals in a bag and bring them to this General Assembly. Now, if we look at the Law Proposal number 688, let's keep it from privatisation in health, including the establishment of a health ministry university, the regulation of the Ministry of National Education employees, the transfer of public resources to the foundations, the urban transformation, the loss of electricity, the access to the Internet, and a lot of other issues that have nothing to do with it are stored in a bag and brought here. This method has been wrong all along. In fact, for the last month, you've been giving a very bad test at this General Assembly. Today, Mr. Cevdet Erdöl made the request to be made lawful here was actually a painting that should have been in this House in the last month. This Parliament should have filled the law with compromise, one last month with an agenda that wants to make it lawful with each other, but unfortunately, as long as you insist on wrong, we continue to break each other in opposite positions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, as I stated, we invite you to act in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0201par0366	Thank you. Now, it's Engin Altay, the Sinop MP who wants to take a stand against you. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0202par0369	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, there's nothing you can do because the injury to the procedure is to observe the violation of the Civil Code, the injury done by Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Plan Budget Commission on the next number of law proposals, Mr. Cemil Cicek, sent to Parliament's chairman, "We have discussed Proposition No.2/2616." He sent it to him on February 16th. Mr. Cemil Cicek has clearly studied the matter with the members of Parliament's Laws, made a statement, stating that the articles 2, 22, 23 and 24 and 25 have been processed here without authorization, and has written a letter to the Commission.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0203par0373	We applied and he did it for her, out of necessity.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0202par0374	Cemil Cicek, who did his job, wrote an article as a neutral Speaker on the last eighty days of the fourth year, to the ruling party group, or rather to the President of the Commission, for the first time, to write a proper letter in accordance with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's why we thank him. However, Commissioner Recai Berber wrote an article to Cemil Cicek. What I do is right, mind your own business. If our lawmakers compare the 35th and 26th clauses, the 35th article contains very clear and precise provisions and statements, but the 26th article, in a vague statement, is the commissioner's... and I'll tell you exactly what: the commission is in control of the agenda, but the 35th article has noted that it cannot be offered. Now, there's one thing you've been saying on every occasion, the Commission has the agenda. Of course it has the commission and the General Assembly agenda, but it has the Constitution and the Civil Code to abide by. This law will already be taken from us in terms of content to the Constitutional Court. In essence, the law seems to be on the way to the Constitutional Court, with this written by Cemil Cicek. Mr. President, you're gonna have to keep doing business according to this, I'll tell you that. But here's the thing, let's not say it's rude, but what's wrong is that it's illegal for Cemil Cicek to print it out with 688 rows and send it to the MPs and groups.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0204par0378	It is against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0202par0379	The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has done an illegal job. I call upon him to return from this stand, from this unlawfulness. In the last eighty days, I'd like to suggest and at least follow the law that he completes his political life. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0205par0382	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0206par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0205par0384	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0206par0385	The article of the Head of Laws and Decisions, which we are now discussing and in the number of Laws and Decisions, has been written by me, through our group, to write to the Speaker of Parliament that some of the articles of this law are contrary to the Constitution, and that the articles in question are contrary to the Civil Code. Mr. Altay said that, but...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0207par0386	I didn't know about your writing.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0206par0387	No, no, so that's the same thing that Law 6552 sent forty-eight articles that were printed out again by the Laws and Decisions. Again, Mr. Recai Berber said, "No, it's true." Now, I wonder, Article 87 of the Civil Charter says: "Nothing is added to the General Assembly that is not in the law. " They try to put a trace on it. Likewise, in Article 35, the Commission does not deal with the law on its own. Yeah, how come 87 is being applied here, and I don't know if it's Recai Berber's farm or AKP's farm? We're writing, see this article... what does the President of the Laws do, Mr. President, you represent the Speaker of Parliament. The Speaker is in charge of overseeing the commissions according to Article 14. Sir, I told him, I don't have authority. He says, "We told him the other day at the Council of Counsellors." Yeah, how can you not have clearance? So if everyone's going to do it their way, why do you read the proposals we've brought here, and then just ask them to add them, then why don't they see each other, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0388	Mr. Altay has just told me that this will be brought up in the Constitutional Court, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0206par0389	No, I'm telling you now, look. I mean, can that happen now? This can't be discussed. This is something that according to the Civil Charter, it is uncompromising.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0390	But Mr. President wrote to the Commission. There are previous applications, and I'll give you examples: (1/594) is the main number...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0206par0391	No, I already told you, that's not necessary.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0392	Just a moment, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0209par0393	What date is it, Mr. President? Are they all AKP years? In what years? Can you tell me the years?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0394	The main number (1/1257), the main number (1/514), the main number (1/566)...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0210par0395	I'm saying the last one.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0396	Yes, earlier, sir, that's correct.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0211par0397	In what years? Are they all in the AKP era?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0398	The main laws (1/810), 2/447) and (1/931) are the same, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0212par0399	Bad precedent, no precedent!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0213par0400	Mr. President, I'm already telling you, look, the guys behind you, they wrote in Bag 6552 that 48 articles are against the Civil Code 35. It's not one, it's not five, it's... it's now, I mean, it's an unconcerned law, so what are we going to discuss?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0401	Yes, thank you, Mr. Günal. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0214par0403	Mr. President, the 87th article says, "The amendments to a new law proposal, which brings additional and change in laws that are not the subject of the proposed bill or proposal, cannot be put into effect." Mr. President, can you tell us who will execute it now?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0404	Mr. Halaçoglu, that's why we've opened the discussion of the procedure. I gave my opinion, and we started a discussion on him.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0214par0405	Yeah, but who's gonna do it? You know, we don't have authority. You say.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0406	So, who's in charge here? We said the Commission has the authority to withdraw, the government has the authority to change the bill and reject it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0214par0407	At least these substances are invisible.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0408	. We said the High Council has the authority to refuse. For the reasons I've just explained, there is no change in my attitude. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, who want to speak on chapter one, Demir Çelik is an MP for Mush. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0415	Mr. President, you can't go into the department, it's still unconstitutional.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0416	Sir, it's been done before. Mr. Steel, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0418	What about before? Wait a minute... so, there are other non-constitutional clauses here.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0419	Sir, it's been discussed. We've just had a formal discussion. Here you go, Mr. Steel. Mr. Steel, please...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0421	Look, wait a minute, Mr. President, that's what we're telling you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0422	Mr. Günal, there won't be a minute, but... do we have a procedure like this? Please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0423	Okay? Except it doesn't fit into the Civil Code of 35.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0208par0424	Sir, I've made my point, I've started a procedure debate, and I'm saying my opinion hasn't changed.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0425	Look, you've argued about a clause that doesn't apply to the Civil Code 35, there are articles against the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0216par0426	Then vote, Mr. President, put your attitude to the vote.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0427	It's gone to the department, it's gone to its materials, it's all...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0217par0428	So, Mr. President, you only did the procedural argument to avoid?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0216par0429	Put your attitude to a vote, Mr. President, so that the General Assembly can control its will...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0215par0430	Has your attitude changed or not? You're not saying anything...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0218par0431	I told you, sir, you didn't listen because you were talking.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0219par0432	Did you do it to pass, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0218par0433	For the reasons I've just explained, there is no change in my attitude. You can ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0220par0434	But the insistence is that you must vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0221par0435	Otherwise, put it to a vote. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0222par0436	Based on what clause are you saying there isn't, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0220par0437	Apply for the General Assembly's vote.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0438	Mr. Steel, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0224par0439	The Speaker wrote, Mr. President, here, look, in the same thing, the Constitution...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0440	Well, we can't keep this up, Mr. Günal, we've talked, we've had a discussion, please...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0225par0441	Present the General Assembly to the game, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0442	But let's not do this the way, let's not do it the way we do it, Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0226par0443	You've already done it. It's a road.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0444	Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0227par0445	Keep the peace.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0446	Mr. Steel, please come in.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0227par0447	There's a group of vice presidents standing up.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0448	Don't do what you did before, Mr. Steel, please, but...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0228par0449	At the same time, Mr. President, there is a violation of the Constitution. Is there anything contrary to the Constitution? Is there a law against the Constitution?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0450	But I explained, Mr. Günal. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0228par0452	That was about the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0229par0453	What the hell, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0223par0454	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0230par0455	Mr. Iron, you guys shouldn't talk until you sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0231par0456	This one's screwed up, tomorrow... so I'm making the paper dispatcher official now. The Speaker's just a paper dispatcher now, and he's got no jurisdiction.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0232par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the esteemed lawmakers on Bill 688 rows.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0233par0459	The wire transfer, the wire transfer!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0234par0460	That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right! From now on, I won't call you Speaker, and I won't tell you. You're all paper dispatchers. Yes! The 14th article says, "Control the commissions." "Send what the Commission's president says." He does not say.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0232par0461	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0235par0462	Mr. Steel, I promise you again, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0232par0463	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the esteemed lawmakers on Bill 688 rows. I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, power corrupts, absolute power rots. The one who intends to achieve absolute power has one goal, one goal, one goal, and that is to try to achieve and maintain its own absolute power by eliminating all human values in order to protect and protect it. It's the understanding of thousands of years of ruling, state-of-the-art mentality, like today's powers. Therefore, society is nothing, freedoms, justice, and demands are not considered. The point of 12 years of practice in the AKP's rule is to look after its absolute power, its rule of law, its legal activities, which are not legitimate. In a law proposal, it is worth considering whether legitimacy is in accordance with universal law, whether it is in accordance with the law of democratic society, whether it provides justice, whether it is in accordance with the principle of freedom and peace. Now, in this sense, part of the law that deals with the bag laws and different purposes and segments, the habit of bringing the law into the same bag and occupying the agenda of the House, is what it seems to do to those who are able and who are involved in absolute power. In addition, the AKP continues to steal our day, our resources, our efforts, our time, with an idea of an opportunistic, pragmatist, promising, marketing merchant. It's a shame, it's a sin! When it comes to building a much fairer, much more democratic, much more liberal country and society, we're missing our present, with a number of laws and laws offered to power, to capital. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, it is possible to sort out the discrepancies that we will see in this bill: First of all, the university, the University of Health Sciences, which is intended to be established under the name of the University of Health, is subject to the hierarchy, political power and university, so it is free of scientific education, quality education, education in the native language, et cetera, an autonomous and independent university. As if they are not satisfied with these aspects, the 1982 Constitution, which you do not like, which is no longer fit in the sack, is also in violation of the 130th (131), 131st (132), 132 (i.e., 132), of which the spear is no longer fit in the sack. How do you bring such violations to the agenda of the House knowingly and willingly, to prevent the law from taking place? Secondly, the perception that we're going to compensate by privatizing the public by privatizing the inability, as if it's not enough that health is being metamorphized, commercialized, and the qualities and capacities of state hospitals have been reduced. Public land will be subject to privatisation of public goods, and hospitals will be sequestered. Who are you looking for? The population will not have 78 million; the 78 million will amount to 1 in ten thousand, 1 in 100,000, the capital will be held in hand, the power, the strength, the power, and the strength to grow, trying to create new profits on society; this is the proponent, the power that worships power, the power. What's in it for society? No. In this way, the Constitution violates the principle of being a social state. If you violate the principle of the social state, if you don't know it, come, put this Constitution on the shelf, and maintain your sovereignty. Another issue is urban transformation. Look, you're making the difference in regional inequality. There's a massive population movement and migration that can't be controlled from the country to the city. At a point that destroys, destroys, destroys, destroys the environment, nature, ecosystem, in order to meet the demands of the people you're disintegrating, which, in fact, is ecological destruction, which is what is meant to be done under the name of concrete and multi-stated buildings. You're trying to play with society's tissues, with an understanding of how people touch each other on the street, break the contact of people who breathe air on the street, lock them in their own apartment, their own space. You're trying to seduce the will of liberal democracy through selfish personalities, by educating hunger based on their neoliberal policies, to surrender the will of your poverty. Another issue is the missing fugitive in the electricity. The missing fugitive, yes, is a reality of this country. There's a limit to theft, fraud, shameful crimes, no account, but mostly in these areas where you apply to privatisation policies, it sprouts. When you privatise electricity, a state that guarantees and guarantees the profits of companies entering the tenders causes the citizens to burden this burden with more oppression, exploitation, and poverty. Is there justice here, is there law here? No. He will become rich and rich, and he will put the exploitation, the oppression, the oppression on the back of the poor, the laborer, the oppressed; and from here we will be in search of justice, justice, and law. Well, that's inconsistencies. This bag of legislation, which is completely in this dimension, which has nothing to do with rights, law, justice, and, of course, the previous bag of laws, will be organized, organized, to serve the AKP's power and service, regardless of the needs of society, the agenda of society and the current, in spite of society, the mechanisms of public, elite politics, the agenda of profits, power, and international global imperial powers. Mr. President, another matter -- especially the fact that public land, land within the 2/B area that has lost its forest quality -- is a matter far from manipulative and deceptive -- that many other public areas, under the scope of privatisation, are being sequestered to national and international financial institutions, making them Ranta open areas, where the energy position of energy is supposed to be met by the hees on our streams is completely manipulative and deceptive. Imagine that at this time in the Black Sea, Kurdistan, about 1,500 hydropower plants thought to be built in the Mediterranean are 8 percent of the potential for electricity energy. But considering these 1,500 hydropower plants, as well as Keban, Karakaya, Ataturk Dam and so on, the flora, fauna, where these dams are built, the ecosystem is being eliminated, the region is being dehumanized. People who have been dehumanized and immigrated to the metropolitan area, Istanbul, Izmir (Izmir) are engaged in efforts and efforts to compare these people to the dominant culture, the dominant language, the dominant identity, as well as their identity, culture, faith, soil. In this respect, this bill says it's not democratic, it's not fair, it's not legal, I offer respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0236par0473	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0474	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0236par0475	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0476	The speaker has used a geographical expression that is not in Turkey. The Constitution does not exist. I demand that this be removed.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0236par0477	We didn't pay attention. What did he use, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0238par0478	It's called Kurdistan!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0479	He referred to it as the establishment of energy centers in Kurdistan until the Mediterranean.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0236par0480	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0238par0481	Is everyone going to define this country as they please, Mr. President, what is this?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0482	Do you have a statement, Mr. President? Take it off...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0239par0483	So you're just saying thank you?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0484	Mr. Akçay, I mean...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0485	Bringing up an issue that is not in the Constitution...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0486	Earlier, it was asked by the presidency that everyone be faithful to the Constitution, to the oath they made. There is no authority for the presidency to remove a promise from the written record, and you know it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0237par0487	You may warn me.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0488	Yeah, well, you've already filed a report.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0241par0489	I mean, don't you have anything to say as president, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0490	Sir, I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0241par0491	Doesn't the government have something to say? Will everyone define this country as they please?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0493	Every member of parliament must speak and act in accordance with the oath he made here.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0241par0494	Is there an oath, a Constitution, a Civil Code?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0242par0495	There's nothing unconstitutional about the Constitution, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0496	On behalf of the groups, here you go. I promise all groups. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0243par0498	It's not a group, you have something to say as president.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0499	Sir, the groups will object, so far the groups have no objection.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0244par0500	How could it not have happened?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0240par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0245par0504	Now, Mr. President, it is against the Constitution to mention geography here as a geographical term that is not in the Constitution, which has nothing to do with Turkey, which is completely divisive, and should be warned by you as president. But you don't warn, you don't notice. I warn you, after I warn you, you look at the reports, you give a warning according to them, saying that it is contrary to the Constitution, at least it should not be included in the reports. You need to give this warning. Now, like I just said, I mean, what are you sitting there for? When it comes to your job, you have the opportunity to act in any way you want, you can pass the articles quickly, you can put them to a vote, but you can't even talk about something contrary to the Constitution. Then don't sit there, let's close the coven.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0246par0506	How do we shut down the coven? Isn't it against the Constitution to close the House?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0245par0507	You know what I mean!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0247par0508	Yes, thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0248par0511	Mr. President, the current debate has nothing to do with this proposal of law. There have been several discussions in the Assembly General Assembly earlier, and political party groups have voiced their views on this issue. We, the People's Democratic Party of Anatolia and Mesopotamia, expressed that it was the reality of Kurdish and Kurdistan in Turkey, that it had been defined from the time of Sultan Sörr, from the time of Yavuz Sultan Selim to the time of Mustafa Kemal, to the time of the Assembly, so that it would actually contribute to this country's social peace and integration, in fact, to a social, historical, sociological, geographical reality that was rejected along with the Constitution of 1924, which we expressed today. There is nothing here contrary to the Constitution. There's nothing more natural in this context than our congressman expressing his own free thoughts from the stand. As long as there is no violence in this country and in all democratic countries -- we don't think that this definition is an contrary idea -- to be freely expressed on this bench is the natural state that should be expressed in this Parliament. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0249par0514	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0250par0515	It has nothing to do with historical reality.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0251par0516	I call upon the government to state their opinion.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0249par0519	Yes, I read the second joke of Article 81 of the Constitution: that I will protect the existence and independence of the state, the unbreakable integrity of the country and the nation, the unconditional sovereignty of the nation; that I will uphold the rule of law, the democratic and secular Republic and its principles and its teachings; that the peace and well-being of society, national solidarity and justice; that I will not abandon the integrity of the nation; that I will not abandon the integrity and integrity of the Constitution; that I will stick to the rule of law and honor of the great Turkish people; that they may not be held accountable for the First Amendment, except by the opinion of the Parliament and the fundamental freedoms of parliament; that they will not be held accountable for the First Assembly, except by the opinion of the Constitution and the Constitution. Yes, thank you. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0527	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0253par0528	Why didn't you greet the President?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0529	I'm not greeting the Presidential Court now that the Presidential Court has lost its function as President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0254par0530	Don't salute, there's no need. And don't salute the government.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0255par0531	It's not his fault, it's Cemil's fault. Cemil Cicek who didn't do his job.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0532	Now, he has also confessed to being instructed, Mr. Altay. So, if we don't take into account what we're saying here, if the Civil Code isn't implemented, if the Minister of the Constitution doesn't recognize it, we don't expect them to. I mean, why are these articles written, Mr. President, why are they written? What does the Department of Decisions do? The work they're writing... here's what I'm saying -- when we're giving it to them -- they send back one item right now, they're making it tick with a pen, guys. Is he just working for us, the Civil Code? What kind of a thing is that? You do it every time. We wrote the same thing. Mr. Barber lives there. Is it the privilege of Mr. Barber? He's signing it, it's true what I'm saying. How is yours true, Mr. Barber? You did the same thing, you know, 48 of them? Not one, not two, not eight, my friend. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. It says here, Mr. President, I wrote that article, right here. Mr. Cemil sent flowers over there on the article I wrote. We said: "These articles are contrary to the Constitution, and these are the 35th Amendment of the Civil Code. " How many hours did all our friends discuss in the Commission? We were lost for two days, we went to a meeting, and after that, I was wondering if he sent me on purpose. I started thinking on one side. As members of the Plan and Budget Commission, we went to a place, came in, four or five items interfered. Mr. Lütfi, what's the crime of Jon? Why is his clause in this bag?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0256par0533	Let's put him away.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0534	Don't worry, he's already got it in the bag upstairs and he didn't put it in the Commission on my objection that day. Yeah, that's no law-making technique, that's no disgrace, that's no way to run for office. He's a paper dispatcher. From now on, I'm the president. I'm not saying that. You're taking it, you're taking it... Article 14 says that the president of Parliament oversees the commissions. He writes, he won't shout if they object! Why, why? What do you mean, "check it out"? As a result of your inspection, you've done your duty, so if an audit report comes to you and needs to be transferred to the D.A., do you always cover it up? If what you're calling "testing" doesn't match what you found... who's printing this report? Mr. President, just because there's that term in it, who didn't suppress the opposition to the budget last year? Wasn't that the presidency? Didn't you have them removed and reprinted because it was against the Civil Code and the Constitution? Why doesn't this Civil Code apply to the Justice and Development Party and the Commissioner, why?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0257par0536	They printed it out later.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0537	What's so special about Recai Berber? I did it. He wrote here and sent it to us. The law doesn't know the experts of the Decisions, the Speaker doesn't know, Recai Berber knows very well. I mean, you can't just suck it up and make a law. Do we get a law in one day that we don't have to discuss it with all of them, all of the Speakers of Parliament? Wait a decade, what's the hurry? You're surprised at what you're doing in such a hurry. Here are two signatures. Look at these two signatures, these dark ones, are they any alike, dear friends?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0258par0538	One's a fake.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0259par0539	Are they the same person?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0540	It's the same signature.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0260par0541	He must have dumped someone standing up, sitting down.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0542	Yeah, he threw one of them out because one of them had his tail down, the other one up. He couldn't beat up the secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0261par0543	He must have been doing somersaults.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0544	Shame, shame! It's an insult to the House. It is also an insult to the Speakership who accepts these things. How do you accept these offers, brother? We warn there, we talk five times.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0262par0545	What about forensics?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0546	Yeah, there's no need to take it to forensics, if you look at it rudely, you'll see. Look, this one's tail is up, and this one's tail is down. Are they the same signature? Take a look! Look at this with this signature!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0262par0547	It looks the same from here!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0548	It'll look the same to you from up close!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0263par0549	Any denial of the signature?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0252par0550	Yeah, it wasn't denied here either. You signed it and brought it here the moment the Deputy Speaker didn't exist. He said it was my signature. He was abroad. We silenced him, that he might not be ashamed of the commonness of the assembly. There's nothing to shut up about now. That's what happened. There was an unsigned transfer here, Mr. President. In the transcripts, you did it here. Unsigned, without the President's signature, one of the legal proposals was transferred. You're the one who made him take over as president. In the other, you collect, you make an hour's call, you make a phone call, I'm the signator. But the friends who saw it already saw who it was. Well, now the verbal agreement is beautiful. There's a dot in one, and there's no dot in the other, and the other one went up, and one of them went down, and one of them didn't look like a person, but would the line he drew slide up and down? Is that even possible? Mr. President, we've shown it to you many times, and you know it very well. The last time he came to you, we showed you the same signatures you received from the commissioners when this law was being discussed, along with the previous signatures. We also showed him the signatures with the stamp and the real signatures. He's finishing it that day, Mr. President, and then he brings it in, and he throws it out, and they give us a photocopy. And when you put it on it, it's like a zucchini in a photocopy; you don't need forensics, when you look at it with the open eye like this... That's no way to make a law. That's no way to impose power. There's no law against that. What is this, sir? Is this Erdogan's father's company? What's that like? Family company, I've decided... you know, in the beginning, the dad, the anonymous company for five, the kids shut up, that's what all the decisions are about. Well, we're always at a loss. And we're always at a loss. He's going, where he's going, who's going to pay for it? If it was his father's company, the damage would have been his own. Guys, this isn't a coven. Our reputation is being undermined. There's no law like that. Now, I'll tell you. Why are you getting so worked up, he says. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like me to read your proposal for the law first. If you'd like me to read it to you, see why I'm angry, why I'm so angry... the article in the bill proposal, if you'd like to see if it has anything to do with what actually came in. What does the proposal say when you come in, then what does it say when we change it, if it has anything to do with the law, I'll read it to you. Dear friends, here in an unnecessary way -- about disaster, our friends have brought in a law clause. So we disagreed that contractors get favours because it's a trampo, tax money. When we were discussing it, we asked the National Real Estate Office for information from our friends. The result is comedy, tragic comedy, terrible. Now he's got a substance that almost makes it impossible to nail, and our friends, they've put it together. We put this thing about the Disaster Law... our friend said: "What are you arguing about?" Was it about the Ministry of Environment's 688 (KK) and the Ministry of Finance -- 178 -- we have friends behind us -- about the decision of the Law, about its establishment. Then the matter changed completely, and it became something else. I mean, the House President didn't write it in these words, but it's actually against the Civil Code of 35. The fact that the frame material is the same up there, Mr. President, can't save the situation with this. The 13th article states that the following temporary clause has been added to Law 3065. • Before there was no Ministry of Environment 644, what was the Ministry of Finance 178? Now, there's a substance like that. Don't you think that's against the Civil Code? On the contrary, we are solving the problem of Sultanbeyli. There has come to be an arrangement that subject all the land that prevents the nail from being struck. Yeah, he doesn't even know what's coming or what he's coming for, most of our friends. Our objection -- it's urgent -- there's a runt here, as always, the Justice and Development Party, land, publicization. When he says that, we go on alert. We said there'd be favors, construction and contractors. That's right, a will that can't even write what he wants, then bring it to us and accept it... let's just say that if we didn't object that day, if the law came out like this, if nobody noticed, you wouldn't be able to nail nails, nails, nails... would that happen? And then you say: "We're making a law." I'm sorry, this place is no longer Parliament, it's like a barn of Dingo. Everyone brings it, gives it, makes a motion, changes it, adds it, brings what they can't bring, forgets at the last minute. You add what's not in the bill, what's not in the law, and what's not in the bill according to Article 35, and what's not in the bill, and you bring it in and add it here. You've done the same thing, you've done the same thing, you've got 6552, you've added the pirate material here in Soma, you've made special arrangements for the person, for some reason. We're gonna tell you to give it up now, but you're not giving it up. People say they'll pay for this in the polls on June 7th, so I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0264par0559	Yes, thank you. The People's Party of the Republic has chosen Vahab, Mersin MP, who wants to speak for the People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0265par0563	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise on part one of bag number 688. Of course, I'd like to start with this law-making technique before it gets into the context of the proposal. Mr. Günal has rightly expressed his objections in an extremely angry manner. Now, Mr. Commissioner lives here. Today at the Plan Budget Commission, we had talks on another bag upstairs. When these meetings began here at the General Assembly, we could hardly convince Mr. Berber after ten o'clock in the evening. So, on one hand, the commissioners of this proposal are discussing such a weirdo, a bag of shit, another arrangement upstairs, while only here is the Speaker of the Republican People's Party Plan Budget Commission, Mr. Türeli, and there are no other MPs. We're here to discuss an offer that passed through the commission earlier. Now, there's no sense in making a law like that. I mean, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it. Mr. Bulent Arinc says... there was a summer bag, and it took too long, remember? Then, after a meeting of the Council of Ministers, he says: "We are not in the effort to put a word such as "torba" (which has changed a clause of every law and, unfortunately, has a right to its end) into the literature of the living. Let's hope we can get this out of literature. The law is something that accepts zero mistakes. It's beautiful, says what we say, Mr. Arinc. ▪ Life is something that accepts zero errors. As a result of your long work, it must be removed to be implemented in the best possible way. ▪ This is a serious business. This matter must be discussed for a long time, then it must be legalized. He says, "We are doing the opposite."
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0266par0568	Parallel, parallel!
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0265par0569	And that is the order of our Prime Minister. The Prime Minister gives the same instructions. Mr. Speaker says we've failed in legislature activities. He says this bag is after the matter of the law. Now, we've got the bag bill off our agenda, haven't we, Parliament? In fact, as a government, you've made the bill, you've gone around the back, you're coming up with an offer. There's a separate offer up there, a separate offer down there, different issues. Some papers have just been shown here, from different signatures, commissions, Mr. Barber. The commission was unable to discuss it because of the time shortage. Such reports are coming from the Tali commissions. Now, for God's sake, we're back in the Mercenaire store as commissioners. You know, there's everything in the hardware store. We've become such a commission, Mr. President, thanks to you. We have to understand health, we have to understand agriculture, we have to understand law; is that understanding possible? So the law we made, for God's sake, would it do you any good? Then he turns around and comes back three months later, five months later, six months later, Parliament did it wrong. Let's go back, don't argue again. Now, my dear friends, chapter 1 and 16 are included in the article. Let me start with the 4th article here. I'm going to share with you some of the important items, some of the things that are being discussed, and I'm going to express our objections. Now, there's the Green Moon Society here, the Green Moon Society, and this was then established as a foundation on 2/12/2014. So there's an association, there's a foundation, and it's not even on the board yet. Why am I telling you this? We've already made a money transfer infrastructure to the Yeyiray Association in 2013, with a law dated 28/3/2013, without the Law 5018, and in 2013, $12.8 million was spent on this association. Now, once again, every year, we make a law that regularly redistributes money from the Health Department budget, this time into the foundation's account, we edit it. Now, here again, 5018 is not subject to the Law on Financial Management and Control, which means it cannot be audited. So, why do we recognize this privilege? What's so special about the green bear? Oh, Mr. President's family is in charge of the foundation, so we're making an exception. If that's what you're feeling... I mean, in Turkey, there's not only Greenies, there's plenty of associations, there's organizations that do as much good as this, they're not allowed that privilege. Now, there's an arrangement that covers the 5, 6, 7 and 8th articles. Here the Ministry of Health is starting a university, a thematic university, the University of Health Sciences for Health. This issue has been discussed here in Law 6569 before, and the ruling-responsibility agreement has been passed from within this bill, but whatever Plan Budget Commission understands from health, it has been rushed again into a bag arrangement, and this law, this clause, is being discussed here in this proposal. Now, there are two important issues here about the objection. One is a violation of the Constitution. The opinion came from the Laws and Decisions, and it says: "It would be appropriate for the University of Health Sciences of Turkey to have a different organisation than other state universities and to have the rector's election processes evaluated in light of Articles 130 and 132 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0267par0577	Didn't we?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0265par0578	Sir, we've assessed it, but it doesn't fit. Now, are there any public college trustees?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0267par0579	We didn't?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0265par0580	Sir, you've changed some of his subjects. Are there trustees now at public colleges? It's in the foundation colleges that I know of. There's a board of trustees here. So there is a violation of the executive provisions of this Constitution, which regulates higher education. There's another thing. Now, when you say "universities," don't we, science nests, education nests, teaching centres; we perceive it as an institution separate from autonomous, independent, political will's guardianship, don't we? Now, look who's on the board of trustees. There's the Undersecretary of Health. A political authority? He's a bureaucrat, but he's under the Minister's administration, isn't he? He represents the Minister, in a sense, a political will. The Minister of Health has two members to choose from, there's the chancellor, there's a member elected by the Board of Higher Education, and the state university is run by a trustee committee. I'm switching to other substances, and I'm running out of time. Eleven, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen. Again, there are privileges here. In Article 11 of Article 12 of the article, the rule of tax exceptions to Redia and tax cuts is issued, as well as the exception of VAT in some services, services, imports and services to the Association. Again, what we really need to pay attention to here, of course, is an institution that we all respect very much, which does a number of humanitarian services both domestically and abroad, but here is a really unique institution, such as Redbeard, which is shown as a charity, which brings many exceptions to Greena. In the most crucial article, the 14th article has been granted free altitude for forty-nine years of non-results belonging to the property of the Redaya, the Yerenai Society and the Foundation, to the treasury, to public institutions and institutions. It's really, as I just said, it's extremely unfair to other community organizations, to the foundations, and I'd like to point out from here. My dear friends, there are certain arrangements in this bag offer that we see in the best interest of society, but as much as I have time to explain, we are opposed here. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0268par0587	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0269par0591	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, for the record, I'd like to say now. Kurdistan was just mentioned. Yes, for the first time in the Sultan Senser era, Kurdistan has passed the term. Sultan Sençar is a Seljuklu ruler from 1117 to 1157, and the place referred to as Kurdistan is the western part of what we call Hamedan, which is today called Hamedan, and, along with the Iraqi region, is only in the area of the fortress called Bahar Castle, which has nothing to do with Anatolia. In 1847, the province of Kurdistan was founded only after Tanzimat Ferman (Tanzimat) and was removed on the pressure of the Westerns and on 1864. The fact that it was already established in 1847 is the most important evidence that it was not first. Therefore, there is no place called Kurdistan in Anatolia.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0270par0593	First Assembly Teacher...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0269par0594	No, including the First Assembly. There's no such thing as Kurdistan, it was then rapped. Kurdistan is entirely in the Iraq region and Iran region.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0270par0595	What do the MPs say?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0269par0596	My brother, they were all said for political reasons in that day, and for that reason: Look, the Musul region still belongs to the Republic of Turkey until 1926. For him, Kurdistan is in the First Assembly because it is not about Turkey, it is about Iraq. I mean, it's not about Turkey again. On the other hand, look, did you really turn Turkey into a law state or a cuckoo state? Friends, Article 2 of the Constitution defines the Republic of Turkey as a state of law, and Article 10 provides all equality. Now, you call it a time-out, but you don't know who the trustees of the foundation are. He may be exempt from taxes, okay, it's the green moon. No objections, no support, but how can you do it without supervision? Could it be an unsupervised organization or a foundation? On the other hand, wouldn't it be against the Constitution if you were to support a foundation, a foundation, and not give the same aid to other foundations in the public interest? Sure. Why don't you do the same, then, why don't you do it to other foundations, give them this support? If you think about it, then you're not a law state, then you're not fair, you're not interested in justice. The state survives as a state of law, standing in a fair state of state. You're going to help someone, you're not going to help someone. How beautiful, how wonderful. You won't listen to regulations now, I don't know, you won't listen to the law and you'll say: "Force is democracy." Yes, advanced democracy. So, if you don't listen to law, order, it's dictatorship, nothing else happens. It doesn't mean anything if you stop being a law and order state. Now, we've been talking about it ever since, and you say, "Sir, this is beyond us." If it gets out of your way, sir, don't sit there. Because the 35th article and the 87th article explicitly forbids any substance violation except what comes normally to the commission, but you say it's done, it's done. So if you don't comply, as a legislature, then what function do you have here, what function do you act on, how do you manage it? So, once you don't comply, you can't expect to obey the laws of the people, the people, the society. You're making a big mistake here. Hence, such matters need to be taken seriously. Now, what you're saying here is that, here, you're exempting the Redee from temporary institutional taxes. Guys, what kind of control do you have in the Redwood? You know, there was a great corruption in the Redwood. I mean, in institutions like this, of course, the government supports certain issues. The foundation of these is the Crescent-i Ahmer, and he also served a great deal in the Ottoman era. The Red Moon is also providing important services today, but how do we know that if you don't bring an audit, with some sort of tax exemption, with some kind of support, how do we know it won't be abused? Which, in fact, happens all the time. As I said, if you're building a foundation, then surely the trustees of the foundation are who, so tell me clearly what you're going to do as a trustee, as a trustee. So you'll build a foundation and the trustees won't be tied up. The same goes for colleges. In universities, you also connect with the plans and projects of the foundations in violation of the Constitution, which is against the Constitution. No one outside of the institutes of higher education can do that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0271par0604	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0272par0607	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the last two months, due to the increase of dollars in the national income of the Republic of Turkey and the income per capita due to the debate that Mr. President has made with the president of the Central Bank, how much change has there been in dollars, has Turkey changed its place as an economic size in the world ranking? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain what number of incomes Turkey has now fallen to in terms of per capita income.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0271par0609	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0273par0611	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, let me continue with the question our dear friend just asked. You insisted on lowering the interest rates of the Central Bank, but the recent meetings led to a settlement on which this should not be dropped. In that case, you, as the minister in charge of the economy, are also in trouble. What do you think about that? Also, some data was released today, and according to the same period last year, there is an increase in the number of unemployed people applying to İSKUR in the first two months, January and February. This shows that unemployment is getting worse, the economy is getting worse, and on the other hand, how are you going to comment on that? In January and February, they apply to İSKUR, according to the same period of last year. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0274par0615	Thank you. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0275par0617	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu prepared and explained a package of transparency. Then, Mr. President, where did this transparency package come from? If you do that, we won't find anyone to run for county and county. He said. After that, the matter was not discussed in public, it had to be reconsidered in that regard. He had expressed an opinion against his Prime Minister. Has the transparency package been abandoned? And what law has been raised in public enough? He needs to know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0276par0621	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0277par0623	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, this is also discussed in the proposal of the law, and the third article is about public private partnership: the Ministry of Health's work in January 2013, especially in the first three years, towards the end of 2017, where private hospitals in Turkey can't find financial resources from outside, finding about 44,000 beds capable of public private partnerships to build city hospitals, but nearly half of the time has ended. Some of its foundations have been laid. Two of them were also laid in Ankara, in Kayseri, in Elazığ. Where's he at? Is there a problem with finance? We also have the name of the hospital, although there is a protocol signed in between. Are you having financial difficulties? Do you know anything about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0278par0626	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0279par0628	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me try to answer as much time as I can, starting with the question our scholar Light Teacher has asked, because we're seeing a bomb of information that's been at the top or the top of the agenda lately, or at the most, causing different, misperceptions in public. Although the same gene is given to me, I will try to answer the issues broadly on Wednesday. As you said, since the last month and a half and two months, the President of the President spoke there, the dollar increased; the President spoke there, the dollar jumped there; the President silent, the dollar fell; the Minister of Economics spoke, the dollar jumped up. They brought me a graph, and they even wrote on it at the clock, day and day. So we did a study on the same date, the same day, what the euro did about the same clocks. I don't have it with me now, but I'll show it to you on Wednesday. On the same day, Turkish lira moved at the same time, with approximately 95 per cent in harmony with the euro. There we asked ourselves, and I want to share this in front of you: OK, Turkish lira may have lost value with our President's speech or he drew those fast graphics and who did what to the euro? We have to ask, of course. And the euro is now devalued by our President? Dear friends, due to our assessment from June 2014, the euro lost 29 per cent to the dollar, from June 2014 to noon today. At the same time, from June 2014 to today, Turkish lira lost 22.5 per cent. In the same way, the euro, which we call the euro with the index of the does, the Japanese new, British pound, Swiss francs, the Australian dollar dollar, lost 6 main currency dollar indexes, 23 per cent against dollars from June 2014, and the Turkish lira lost its value by 22.5% and 23 per cent. Look, it's a fluctuation. In the world, other dollars are lost in the face of dollars. I'm not taking them for granted that Brazil's realism has lost more than 40 percent of its value here. I don't value the ruble or evaluate the Argentine pesos. It's not money like this, it's the money we're dealing with that I value here. Now, the other thing is, do you think that Mr. Kusoglu would say that the interest rates of the Central Bank should not be lowered? I don't think that any citizen of the Republic of Turkey, or you, or any member of parliament in this country, would say something like that. Dear friends, from the moment this Federal Reserve began in the United States, where the U.S. Central Bank in the late 2013s stopped its financial expansion and created its expectations that it could increase interest, there has been an interest demand in the world by the way that American dollars, such as Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Turkey, South Africa, India, the abundance of the world's reserve money, are now unreachable, and america's liquidity of $750 billion is more than that of $4 trillion. We said, as soon as the world's demand for interest arises, we said: "It is true that Turkey is expected to be affected by this, but if we open up the secret code of the President of the Central Bank of the European Union, which has done 40 per cent of foreign trade with the European Union directly, that Turkey, which has made 72 per cent of its foreign capital entry from the European Union directly, will not be affected by such a risk, it will not be affected by the United States, it will be affected by its negative expansion, and we will not allow the President of the European Bank of the European Union to continue to say that it will be affected by the United States at the end of February 2014. As of now, I'm saying that interest is still high in Turkey, that interest should be reduced, that if interest is compared to inflation and interest will be compared to interest, and therefore Turkey's expectation inflation is at 5.5 per cent of 2015, and that interest is still high right now. I don't know that -- as of today -- I can't control it -- it's true that from the beginning of 2009, Turkey has increased the number of insured employees to over 26 million, which is about 6 million new citizens. On the other hand, in 2014, Turkey gave 1.4 million citizens new jobs, but despite that, unemployment has risen from 9 per cent to 10.4, 10.5. Why, why? At the same time, Turkey has brought the number of women within its labour force from the 2006-2007 to 30 per cent from 18 per cent. So now our women want to be more involved in the labor force, and Turkey has raised its labour force turnout to 51-52 per cent of 44 per cent over the past three or four years. I mean, is that, of course, enough for Turkey? Not enough, of course. In order for Turkey to reach that environment of its 2023 targets in the next period, it has to reach around 70-72 per cent of the labour force turnout rate, so we've reached 51-52 per cent of the 40 per cent, but what we really should be doing is 70 per cent -- the 70 per cent -- that's where we're going to get to Turkey -- and that's where we're going to be, and that's where we're going to be. Well, we're all fighting for Turkey to get here. The truth is, we all share that Turkey can't grow under 5 per cent. Turkey can't carry itself to the future with a growth of less than 5 per cent, so with 3 per cent, 2 per cent, 4 per cent, Turkey can't do it. Turkey has indeed achieved a great success so far. In the past 13 years, Turkey has averaged 5.1 per cent growth. Turkey has grown 5.6 per cent since the 2008 crisis in the last 20 quarter, average since the twenty-quarters, but the current performance of Turkey in the last year does not make us happy, and Turkey does not make anyone happy. So it's 3%. What does that have to do with anything? It's the mind's way. Using our minds together in Turkey, together in unity and unity, we are now lowering interest rates that make it difficult for Turkey to invest. And with these recent courtship arguments, look, there's nothing to worry about. Turkey has no worry about courtship. Turkey can't do this: Turkey can't intervene by selling currency to protect the value of Turkish lira with the Central Bank, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, and it shouldn't interfere by increasing interest. Why? Because the fluctuation isn't a fluctuation from us, it's a fluctuation from the Earth. Is this sustainable? It's not sustainable, it's not sustainable for the American economy. Because I'll give you the simplest example. A year ago, when we compared an American car with a German car, or a French car, or a car produced by foreign patents in Turkey, the European car was more expensive, now the European car became cheaper, the American car became more expensive, so America became harder to export. The result is: When all resources and resources flow to the United States because of the valued dollar: One, investment will increase; two, capacity will increase; three, production will increase, employment has already increased. So, what's the product going to be? They have to export. And for them, the day will come when they will have to make the necessary decisions about it, not the precious dollar exporter friend to export it. The public's private finance problem right now, according to the information your friends have given me, says it isn't. In some, yes, I know that, in some of our provinces, there are problems with land reunification. But now the tenders for public private partnership continue at all speeds, and believe me, both Turkey and the financial institutions from all over the world are competing to finance them. So the firms taking this tender, the financial institutions around the world are currently licensed and continuing, Ankara, Adana, Isparta...
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0280par0642	Why am I changing the terms of my investigation, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-03-16sit09spe0281par0643	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-16sit10spe0281par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 688. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 687, which is ranked in the 7th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions were not to be found after this, the decision was made, on Tuesday (March 17th 2015) at 15 p.m. to discuss the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
