tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the General Assembly to a moment of silence in front of the blessed memory of the late Adana MP Murat Bozlak. [[Respect has been held]] God rest his soul. We ask for patience for those close to us. Congressmans, with two painful losses, our General Assembly completed last year. We started this year with a pain. I wish the New Year would bring health, peace, happiness, success, and a year when criminals are not strong. I'll make a short promise to the members of the group who have entered the system to pay their condolences. Mr. Row, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0002par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy to the People's Democratic Party Adana MP who lost his life on Sunday. My condolences to his family, his relatives, his constituents and the Democratic Party of Peoples. By the way, we're having the first General Assembly meeting of 2015. I wish the New Year would bring blessings to our country and to all mankind, a healthy, happy, successful year, a year when our words would rise, not our voices, but the brotherhood's law would improve. My respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. We are deeply sorry as the Republican People's Party family after the death of Peoples' Democratic Party Adana MP Murat Bozlak. Mr. Bozlak was a politician well-known to the Republican People's Party family; he was a very valuable politician who, with his kindness and hard work, always made great efforts to improve the democracy of our country, the human rights. We lost ourselves in a very timeless time, in its most productive age. Because of his untimely death, we would first like to extend our condolences to the MPs, family, and political community of the Peoples' Democratic Party of Turkey, members of all parties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We want to say that we will be in solidarity with his family in any way that both his family and his party see fit. In addition, during our first meeting of parliaments in 2015, in the following days, we wish our new year's work to be a successful year, with Turkey's democracy, human rights, the rule of law, cleared of corruption, the account for injustices, and the public conscience that Turkish people expect will be established and justice will take place.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0005par0030	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0006par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Peoples' Democratic Party Adana MP Murat Bozlak Bey has died with great sadness. We ask for his mercy, and we ask for patience for his family and for his family. Meanwhile, we wish blessings to the Turkish Republic of Turkey of 2015, Turkey and the Turkish nation, bringing peace to the whole world as the National Movement Party Group. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0007par0037	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0008par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have taken on very important duties in the political parties we follow, and have been the leader of the People's Democratic Party in the most stormy political period, and we are suffering from the deep pain of losing our friend, Mr. Murat Bozlak, who was elected candidate for the Labour, Democracy and Freedom Bloc in the last 2011 elections, and who worked together as a member of the Peace and Democracy Party and as a member of the Peoples' Democratic Party. In the Kurdish freedom movement and in Turkey's struggle for democracy, we remember once again our brother's struggle and his memory with gratitude, with respect, with gratitude, with gratitude, with no hesitation to pay the most heavy price for being the voice of the oppressed, with the values of the struggle that our people have created, with the unique contributions to the revelation of today's achievements. We want to say that by expanding our people's will to live together, we will be able to carry the flag of freedom that Turkey carries with honor in order for the liberation of the Kurdish people, the full democratization of Turkey. We consider the Turk, the Kurdish, the woman, the youth, the Aleli, the worker, the laborer, all the oppressed in Turkey to be on all sides of the struggle until the results come, as a duty to all of us in Murat President's life practice. In this honorable struggle, we'd like to stress here that arrests and arrests, certain counter bullets, cold prison walls, can't work, but can see very clearly through his life. To his last breath, Murat President was involved in an approach to the strength and contribution of his every breath that he followed closely and took in our country and our region. We say that in his humble, humble, wise stance, he is both an example and a guarantee for the success of the struggle of the oppressed in order for the success of many of our staff, our people, our youth, our struggle. We offer him God's mercy, our party's condolences to all the people of Turkey, especially the Kurdish people. Throughout the entire funeral, we want to be there with our phone calls, to the precious representatives of political parties, NGOs who support us, and to our dear fellow MPs who have not left us alone again, to express our gratitude and gratitude on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0009par0046	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kars MP Ahmet Arslan, who asked for a speech on the memorial events of the Sarıkamis martyrs. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0010par0054	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, and I ask God's mercy to our fellow MP Murat Bozlak. I offer my condolences to the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and to his family. Again, I wish 2015 would bring blessings to our country, to humanity, to the world. December 22, 1914, the start date of Operation Sarikamis. It lasted about twenty-three or twenty-four days, and today it is remembered with 90 thousand martyrs. On Sunday, we walked with young men, brothers, uncles, and grandfathers from all over Turkey while we were honoring 90000 martyrs. I'm here to tell you what this march means, what it adds to us. So, in 1064, especially Abu'l Hasan Herekani, who came to Anatolia in 1000 years and was killed in 1033, in 1064, again in Kars geography, we gave up about 1.5 million in Kars geography, including the martyrs we gave to Sultan Alparslan and his friends nine hundred years ago. About 100,000 people from all over Turkey walked 9km on Sunday in memory of the 1.5 million martyrs in that geography and the 90000 martyrs in Sarıkamis. Walking alone doesn't mean anything. The point of walking was that if 1.5 million ecdats were martyred in that geography to leave us as a home, as a homeland, then you had to remember them, to understand them, to know our past and to build our future in this way. For that, we thank our Prime Minister, our cabinet members, and especially our Ministry of Youth and Sports, especially Mr. President. In recent years as part of their steps to take care of our martyrs, Sarkamiş had wonderful activities for three days. The events tried to explain: A hundred years ago, from Baku, from Yemen, from Jerusalem, from Gaza, from the Balkans, from Kosice, from Pristina, from the Caucasus, and from all parts of Asia Minor, from all parts of Asia Minor, from Yemen. Ninety thousand ecdats have also been martyred by the intention of leaving this geography as a sister, shoulder to shoulder, home to us. Ninety thousand is symbolic. Why is it symbolic? Because we know that many ecdats have been killed by fighting during that operation, many veterans have killed just as many Russian soldiers as they have. But what is symbolic? To defend the country at the cost of freezing, to act at the cost of freezing, and to take Sarikamis (Sarikamis) even for a day. Unfortunately, in the circumstances of that day, the plans didn't work out the way they were supposed to, so some of it froze to death. On Sunday, young people from all over Turkey came and walked. As they walked, they saw that this land was not easily left to us as a home. For this land, one and a half million martyrs have been left in Kars' geography alone, and 90 thousand in Kars' geography have blocked the Russians, so the victory of Çanakkale has arrived, and today we are trying to build, grow, build Anatolia as a homeland. Happily for us, we walked with at least 30,000 people in Sarıkamiş, because we made Sarsakamis, and because we made it easy for them to reach, and the young ones saw that it was necessary to risk death for the sake of the land, and to be a martyr. What we want to emphasize today and that day is that in this geography, we need to keep our past as brothers and sisters, and we need to build a future. I give thanks and respects to all those who contribute, walk, and make spiritual contributions on Sunday to build this future. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0011par0062	Thank you, Mr. lion. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bilecik MP Bahattin Şeker, who wants to talk about natural disasters in the Willows and Inhisar districts of Bilecik. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0012par0067	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I ask God's mercy on our late MP, his family and his party. Again, I wish you all a happy New Year, health, happiness, and success. Because of the winter and heavy snowfalls we are in, there have been many setbacks in our region. Süğüt, Inhisar districts of Bilecik Province have been affected by snowfalls in Mihalgazi and Sarıcakaya districts in the districts of Eskişehir. The local greenhouse farmer's crops are wasted due to the collapse of his greenhouses. Although this was due to snowfall, there was actually a white earthquake in our area. The situation is truly pathetic. Because the greenhouses were destroyed, more than 70 per cent of greenhouse production in the region has been damaged. Our farmer has become extremely victimic and desperate after this situation. The farmer, whose bread, stove, hope, and breath that binds everything to this production, must be taken care of immediately. What's happening here -- I'd like to underline -- is a natural disaster. The problems that arise in the face of this natural disaster require that the Prime Minister and the relevant institutions and organisations, including the AFAD, be involved in the Prime Minister's office. I went to the area over the weekend. I've visited the districts of Willow and Inhisar with our victims, our mayors. Likewise, Justice and Development Party Bilecik MP Mr. Fahrettin Poyraz and Republican People's Party MP Haydar Akar visited the region. After all, we saw the painting together, listened to our farmer, talked. There's no politics in disaster. If there is a disaster, the solution must be sought together, and the solution must be reached unitedly. On this occasion, we call upon the government and its relevant ministries, the healing of the injuries caused by this natural disaster, the taking action to resolve the situation of victimhood and crisis in the region. There are efforts made by the governorship, the governorates, the agricultural district and the district managers in good faith. However, you'll appreciate that there's more to it than that. These efforts cannot meet the needs of the region. Yes, when we were talking to our farmers, they said, "If our house had been destroyed, we would have said the house had been destroyed, but we would have done it. This is worse than that. Our bread, our furnace, and our hope were destroyed. I can't take another farmer, my daughter, my child. He said, "Will you send a psychologist here?" Another farmer has suffered this kind of disaster, God knows. We don't want anything we don't deserve. He said, "Let them come and listen to us, and see the situation, and support us." Look, our willowy countrymen are in such a noble manner. Despite his great sacrifice, he speaks of his situation in such a solemn and honorable way. That's why it's time for our government to extend its help to the founding of our government and to the salvation of our nation. In our provinces of Willow, Inhisar, Mihalgazi, and Sarıcakaya, known as the Çukurova. Let's show responsibility for this disaster that has destroyed hundreds of acres of greenhouses. Let's take care of our farmer. Once again, in the presence of your grand delegation, I would like to say that I have invited our Prime Minister and our ministers on this matter. Also, after snowfalls in Bozüyük and Willow, closed markets collapsed, many vehicles in our counties have been hit by debris. Our consolation is that there is no loss of life. It is still snowing in our area. Snowfalls are expected to continue during the week. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the work of our municipalities in our Willows and Bozyük districts is ongoing, but under the AFAD, our government is in need of assistance. Debris removal continues. I'd like to point out that we're here to offer our best wishes to all our fellow citizens, who have been victimized. With these thoughts, I salute your grand delegation as I end my words.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mughla MP Tolga Çaldar (who asked for a comment on the wind power plants planned in the Basement Peninsula). Here you are, Mr. Chandar.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0014par0082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Right at the beginning of my speech, I offer my condolences and condolences to our congressman's colleagues and family first. When we go in, right above you is the kingdom of the unregistered, unconditional nation. It's a very important word from our Ataturk. I pictured it, and there was this picture from years ago, when Deniz Gezi was tried in court, and he started laughing. As he laughed, the judge asked, "Wait a minute, what are you laughing at, Deniz?" I'm laughing at him because it says "justice" on you. So, now, here, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there. Wind power plants, of course, are very important to this country. Over and over again, our friends spoke of the bench, calling it renewable energy sources. We argue this, we also know how important renewable energy sources are to fossil fuels, but should it be made by the Yalikak, one of our country's most important points in both its shipyards and tourism? Couldn't you find another place to do it? I mean, with the endemic birds, with the endemic plants, with the six kinds of birds that only live there -- only six birds that are suitable for our locality -- and with countless vegetations, we'll bring them here! The public says: "No, you can't make these REMs here, because scientific research that was done in Europe in the 1990s shows that wind power plants have a very negative impact on human health even when they're only between 1.5 and 3 kilowatts. Look, we did the thing here: it's very interesting that the negatives on human health, such as vomiting, nausea, blurred vision, heart palpitations, nervousness, focus, and memory problems, have been decided to be made in the Yalikakak, which you have declared to be the primary development area of the wind power plants in Turkey -- the Ministry of Environment -- which you have declared to be a special environmental protection area in development. Is it only done in Jalukak? I mean, it's being done in spite of all the court decisions. It's the same example that you've been going to Iztuzuna, Iztuzzi for more than ten days -- there's a marriage -- how can you refer to a company such as the local people, the people of Centralca, the people of Dalchev, the People of the Village, the Fethiyes, the Muğla people as a whole -- not just the Muğla people, but the environment, that contributes to the tourism of that region, the Caretta caretta caretta, the 15 beaches of the world, just two days after its establishment? You say, "When was this tender announced, brother?" He says, "They gave me this contract by phone." What the hell is a phone contract? See, the same thing has been done in the Dead, the dead has been declared in the Dead, the people, the companies, those who want to buy it have entered the tender, the deserving firm has taken it, and now it works like roses. But what's going on here? So who is this Dalchev? It's a company with three partners, one of which is foreign. One of the employees is an unelected citizen of the Justice and Development Party, a member of the AKP. Guys, you're wasting this country. See, we have problems with shipyards in Mughla. And though we have said it many times, it is very important to be a shipyard in the country, in the Mediterranean, in the shipyards; and you close the shipyard at the Shipyard, and it is not opened yet, and now the shipyards do not know what to do. Thousands of Mughals are eating bread from it, and now, unfortunately, they're desperate. The Justice and Development Party, the concept of justice... I told you, when you go in, there's justice written on you. I swear, I don't want to laugh because it's tragic, but it's a tragedy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0015par0093	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. I'll give the MPs a minute of my word that he's in the system. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The events in Iraq and Syria have turned into ethnic cleansing from Turkmen. In this context, Turkey has taken refuge in the Turkishmen of 50,000. The Turkmen family of 800 also has taken refuge in Ankara. These families are in total poverty in Abidinpaşa, Mamak, Yenimahalle, Demetevs, and Luntepe. Turkmen families try to live in an apartment of 30 or 40 people. The AKP is blind and deaf and indifferent to the needs of our Turkmen brothers. Despite all warnings, the AFAD does not provide serious protection for Turkmen. Since Turkishmen are not registered, they cannot benefit from health services, social benefits, such as other asylum seekers. When AFAD was cooked, Turkmen had no record, so they sent official letters to the governorates that they could only receive health care in emergencies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The AKP, which deprives Turkmen of the rights guaranteed by international contracts, and abandons their fates, will pay for the harm done by a single Turkmen. Make up your mind, AKP, abandon your indifferent and hostile attitude towards Turkmen. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0017par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0018par0106	Thank you. Mr. President, as it is known, a large number of businesses, housing and greenhouse areas have been damaged in the province of Kütahya due to heavy snowfalls that occurred on 31 December 2014 along with some of our provinces in Kütahya districts and in the following days. For example, the estimated cost of damage in Simav district -- I have seen the size of the damage personally -- is more than 10 million euros, including the greenhouse area, which is a total of 185,000 square metres. I'd like to thank the ministers and the government for providing new loans with low interest, at least a year's delay to compensate for the damage to greenhouse areas and other businesses in the province of Kütahya, which have been damaged as a result of the natural disaster.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0017par0108	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0019par0111	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the loud voice of the union struggle, the fearless man Mehmet Akif İnan....remembered on the anniversary of his death. Mehmet Akif İnan, an example in the union struggle, which began as the voice and the voice of the workers, the patron of the orphans, the victim and the oppressed, follows his disciples and takes care of his trusts. After his death, it is one of the beauty they have made, especially known as the Roman poet Aksa. Today Mehmet Akif İnan is not among us, but as he said, who said it all ends in death. We continue with our resolve, our faith, our faith, to write epics, saying, "Our graves are written." Mehmet Akif İnan is a person who first met society and the values of society in Turkey. He has taught us through his own experience to be a unionist, to be the voice of the oppressed, to stand up to the oppressor, to defend rights and to represent the labor of unionism, to be a representative of the sweat of his own. We remember him with mercy.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0017par0113	Thank you, Citizen. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0020par0116	Mr. President, my dear fellow deputies, from the great city of Burma, from the city of Ulurdağ; from the city of Bursah; from the city of Bursah; from the city of the mosque; from the city of Bursaht; from the city of the cities of the saints; from the city of Bursah; from the city of Bursah; from the city of Bursah; from the city of Orhan Ghaşt; from the city of Bursah; from the city of the city of the cities of the villages; from the city of Bursah; from the city of the city of the city of Bursah; from the city of the city of the city of Orhan Hatun; from the city of Bayez; from the city of the city of Bayez; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from Bursah; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from Bursah; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from Bursah; from Bursah; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city of Turkey; from the city; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Turkey; from the city; from the city of Turkey; from Bursah; from Bursah; from Bursah; from the city; from the city of Turkey; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city of Orcabey; from the city; from the city; from Bursah; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city of Orsah; from Bursah; from the city of Turkey; from the city of Orsah; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city; from the city of
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0017par0117	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0021par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. He's celebrating the new year of you and our entire House, and I wish this year, at least, to be the last year of democracy. I also ask for God's mercy on our colleague, Mr. Murat Bozlak. And my condolences to our friends and citizens. In the park, which is located just outside the city hall, the oak trees have been cut down for decades. When asked why, excuses have been made, as the trees have been worms and dried up. Is this subject considered to be investigated? Has the Department of Forestry been cleared? It's already seen clearly with satellite images of how much the region has dried up in the last few years, how much green has been destroyed. There is concern in the environmental community that the region will be developed, as all green areas have been destroyed. The matter must be cleared up immediately, and it must be documented that it will not be developed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0022par0125	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0023par0128	Arif Nihat Asia, a master of language and style, was also a star in our world of ideas, not only in our literary world as poets, but in the material and spiritual realities of the Turkish nation. Those who disbelieve in it and try to make it go away are troubled by its emphasis on national and spiritual sensibilities. He was a lover of Turkish language, a lover of Turkey, who had excellent use of Turkish language both in his poetry and in his progeny. He was not separated from the values of the people in which he lived; he had always lived with the people, eye to eye. He was not arrogant and proud; but he was a man of the people, rich in heart, with open hands. Although the late poet, who came out of the bosom of the Muslim Turkish nation, was well known as the Bayrak poet, a part of which many did not know was the Prophet's lover, which was perfect. Arif Nihat has written to our Prophet Lord *Seccaden sands, From the ages, from the realms, The one who comes and meets in the sky, You had a crusher. Again, doves on the ledges, And let the saints mingle with the Huu, Blessed is the night, Come, you conquerors, Yasil...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0024par0138	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0025par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a private training practice center at Izmit Muammer Aksoy Elementary School in Kopeeli. A total of 57 mentally challenged students are educated at this school, but 17 teachers are in total. Only two of the teachers have the status of a mentally disabled homeroom teacher. As it is known, a training process must take place after four years of university in order to teach a class that is mentally disabled. I would like to ask the Ministry of National Education to take an urgent precaution in terms of the future of our disabled children. I also send greetings to the activists who resist in the village of Iztuzu of Mugla. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0026par0145	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0027par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. As of New Year's Eve, 400 minimum-paying sub-employees have been laid off by the municipality in the district of Yaydem district of Samsun. They've lost their jobs in the middle of the winter, and as of now they can't bring bread to their families in their homes. They were told that they were removed because they couldn't pay their wages, but they were replaced by a new worker, with 130 more. In addition, unnecessary expenses to the municipality, such as luxury power tools, separate cars for bodyguards. What conscience allows honest people to take away their bread, whose sole purpose is to deliver lawful bread to their children? The First Step City must immediately give up its wrong and end the victims of these people. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0028par0151	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Yellow...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0029par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 93rd anniversary of the salvation of Gaziantep, which we celebrated over the past few weeks, our Gaziantep people fought for the great honor of the occupation of the French people for 11 months in hunger and absence in 1921. In his defense, he made bread out of the Zerdali core, he ended his French tyranny and occupation with the whiteness of his face. On this anniversary, which we celebrated in the year 93, I bless and thank all our martyrs who were martyrs in the Gaziantep defense. I thank you for my honor and joy in serving Gaziantep, as well as being a member of Gaziantep.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0028par0156	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0030par0159	I wish our fellow co-worker mercy. I'm so sorry to hear about your colleagues again. Of course, during the AK PARTY rule, in 12 years, 3 billion 250,000 trees were planted. There's one thing that's often come up about these trees being cut down, and it's come up today, but of course it can always be made up by replacing new ones, but there's been a lot of tree massacres in Yalova and Aydın. I wish that I'd be more careful about them in 2015.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0028par0161	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0031par0164	Mr. President, I wish you a world without war, without exploitation, to celebrate the new year of all mankind and our people, health and happiness. Mr. Murat Bozlak, the Adana MP who lost his life, I want to express my condolences to Allah and to his family and to his group. Last week we met with our citizens in the village of Güzelyurt, Espye district of Giresun, my constituency district. I know a duty to thank Mr. Sejdi Sadid, who has us at his house. The old name of the beauty village is Goat village. After I went to the village, I understood why it was called Goat Village. The village is an hour and a half, 35 kilometers from the city, altitude 770. It's really bad transportation, but there's also a serious water problem in the village. Citizens in the village have stated that they voted 294 votes for the AKP in the 2011 elections, that the Republican People's Party received 33 votes, and that the National Movement Party received 20 votes.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0032par0169	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0033par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the prime minister says, we do what is right about corruption. The AKP commissioners do the opposite. The Commission's decision is to admit that the law is over in Turkey and the judiciary has been nullified. Corruption, theft, is not an internal issue of a party; it is the law, the courts that will account for corruption, theft. If the Prime Minister doesn't trust the court, if he doesn't trust the law, how can a citizen, why would he? In the countries where there's theft, the people are poor. All values to reset corruption, theft, Turkey is resetting. I'd like to ask: has the MIT reported to the Prime Minister of the period about Reza Zarrab and the ministers or not? Has this report been processed? Also, nearly 1,000 workers were laid off at Antalya Metropolitan Municipality. There's a slaughter. Someone's getting rich wrong, and someone's losing their minimum wage job. This is the justice of the AKP. People from the district of Büyükşe district of CHP have been informed that the municipalities of the district... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... While all debts are being loaded, all assets, valuable properties of the city's municipalities are being transferred to the whole region. I'm asking for such justice, such government.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0034par0178	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Boiler...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0035par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to express my condolences to our HDP MP, who passed away the other day. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are this week's White Cane Blind Week. No one chooses to be disabled willingly. They give the best example of patience when it comes to holding on to life. It is our government's duty to provide equal rights and resources to all individuals who form society, regardless of color, language, religion, race, gender, and their physical status, and all the legal provisions that we make in order for them to live in better conditions, but we also have to help them, as individuals. And I say, as lawmakers of the EC PARTY, we too celebrate the White Cane Blind Week of all our disabled, and wish for an uninterrupted life.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0036par0184	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Mr. Fish...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0037par0187	Mr. President, I hereby condemn the attacks on the right-wing PEGIDA Group against Islam and foreigners in Germany in the name of humanity. This group calls themselves European patriots against the Islamisation of Europe. However, the problem is neither Islam, nor the attacks of Islamists. The form of racism today in Germany is anti-Islamic. The feeling at the bottom of the PEGIDA Group's demonstrations is a sense of hatred for everyone and everything who isn't German. What they call Islamophobia is a policy of public hostility created by imperialism. This includes the role of all German bourgeois media and politicians who live on the right, left-wing, and the classic game of fascism. I say I curse all forms of racism against humanity, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0036par0189	Thank you, Mr. Fish. Mr. Right... no. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0038par0193	Mr. President, in the hope of bringing peace and peace to our entire country in 2015, I'd like to say a brief word about the problems of our driver's shop this winter's day and the cab drivers who were killed in Istanbul and other cities. Maybe it's kept out of sight, but our truckers who work under very difficult circumstances and our taxi driver, who serves for 24 hours, are seriously victimized. It's a very easy job to avoid killing cabbies. In many developed countries around the world, this is done by cabins between customers and drivers. There's only one thing the government can do, and the government shouldn't take WTVs or VATs from taxis. It's unacceptable for taxi drivers to be driven to death in public for years without doing so. At this point, I wish the ministry would take immediate precautions.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0036par0194	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0039par0197	Mr. President, I wish Allah's mercy to Adana MP Murat Bozlak. My condolences to his family and his party. Sir, right now there are hundreds of buses trapped in the snow, winter, type Ardahan-Kars, blocked the road to Ardahan-Artvin, Ardahan-Posof-Damal-Khanak-Kunir-Gole. Mr. Secretary, please listen to this. Our territory, unfortunately, has heavy winter conditions, but no one has sent equipment. They're really trying to open up two old-fashioned cars. There are now nearly thirty vehicles trapped between Lake and Ardahan, and people say we are about to freeze. I mean, I'd like to ask them to send cars as a state to the east, southeast, especially in the snow-winter area. Send snow machines, send labor machines. Indeed, there were many people trapped there. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0040par0200	Thank you, Mr. Övüt. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0041par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, yesterday was the day of our salvation of Adana on January 5th, and today is the day of the liberation of our Adana-Ceyhan district. I give thanks and thanks to our grandparents, the heroes of Adana, who fought bravely to save our Adana from the enemy's occupation. I give thanks and thanks to the martyrs, God's mercy, and to the veterans. God bless them. Today, of course, I'm celebrating the days of our people from Adana to get out of here. I also ask the HDP Adana MP to have God's mercy on me, and I am sorry for the heads of their group. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0042par0207	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0043par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. However, a significant portion of the environmental massacres in Mugla are being carried out by the Ministry of Environment itself. Many of our beaches, particularly Iztzu, are being illegally tendered to non-companies by a company that has been co-founded by the Ministry of Environment. Again, the CED report process for three new thermal plants is being continued in Mugla. Lake Bafa is unclaimed and helpless. The Ministry of Forestry cuts through our forests unscheduled and unscheduled. After all, the key assets of Mudla are looted by the AKP's power. If this plunder continues, there will be no more tourism or agriculture or beekeeping in Mugla. I call upon the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to immediately halt this Talan and protect its most valuable assets. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0044par0214	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0045par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, last week's Rize Management Court put an end to the attempt to mine gold in Artvin Cerattepe, which we've been carrying on for years. The Rize Administration Court announced its verdict yesterday. This has decided to cancel the mining initiative that was intended to be removed. I wish all of Artvin, all of Turkey, good luck. The Artvins rid him of trouble, and by judgment, they halted this insurgent attack that was intended to be done to them. There's a court process behind this, but we believe that after all those wonderful reports in the file, Artvin of Artvin also registered his efforts to protect Artvin. To the Genghis group who received this tender, I wish them the best of luck to the company they redesigned. In particular, Mr. Taner, I say good luck to Star, he had great zeal for this tender. He knows what I mean. As a result of this tender, this cancellation decision has been a lesson to all Turkey, and Turkey has been an honorary precedent for the environmental movement. Congratulations to the judges of Rize who made this decision.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0044par0219	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0046par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. In the name of the Turkish nation, lawmakers use sovereignty in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and the Constitution does its duties under the Interior Charter. Domination belongs to the nation unconditionally. A motion issued by the Justice and Development Party on December 17th-25th was adopted in Parliament, and a parliamentary investigative commission was established. Then the Commission made that decision. On the day he makes his decision, unfortunately, with the announcements of those with money in the papers, the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been threatened, pressured, and, in this case, all lawmakers, especially those who have decided to sign the motion of the Justice and Development Party, have clearly insulted the MPs by describing the process as a coup attempt after the Supreme Court. On a day when the Parliamentary Investigation Commission will decide, in fact, those who threaten those who will make this decision are in debt to the shadow of their strong will, in fact, the sovereignty of the guardian regime, the couptarian regime, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the declaration of the postless juntas, the coupgers who cannot digest the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Those with money, I will return to the Turkish Parliament and the MPs with the announcement. Parliament must protect its honor, its honor, and its honor. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not a position to be threatened by ads. The MPs are not responsible for someone's shadow, they are responsible for the Turkish nation and they owe it to them. In this regard, I would like to request that Parliamentary Speakers make the necessary initiatives regarding those who make these announcements, as a derogatory and threatening tool of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this declaration, with pool ads, pool money, to threaten the representatives of the nation, this mentality, juntist, bureaucratic, oligaristic, junta. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0047par0226	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0048par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. I also think that the natural massacre in Istuzu, in the Mugla Dalyan region, will hit Turkish tourism with a heavy blow, and a great natural heritage will be destroyed. I demand that the government desist from this immediately. Second, pensioners find a raise less than charity. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0049par0233	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0050par0236	Mr. President, because of the heavy snowfall in Bilecik province, in Willow and Inhisar counties and villages on December 30-31, a total of 6,000 acres of greenhouses have been destroyed and are not possible to be used again. This region, called Antalya, is being sown all year round. The region must be helped by the state immediately, with urgent financial assistance for the removal of greenhouses, as well as new greenhouses cost 15 to 20 thousand euros per acre, with state support, March-nisan, must be brought to the new October. I also say that our farmers' bank loans and agricultural loans must be postponed immediately.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0049par0237	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Finally, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0051par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, according to our Constitution, the President will provide the administration between all the boards and institutions in the country, establish my co-ordination, and carry out the unity and unity of the country. However, at the dinner that he is now sitting in the presidency, he played with the honor of this great Parliament, which says, "The government is a unconditional nation," which states that lawmakers, all of us, all of us, will take a decision in accordance with the decision of the Commission of Investigations in Parliament, as well as the decision made by the Commission of Investigations yesterday. On the contrary, there is no other period in Turkey where the MPs will be subjected to the decision taken by the Commission of Investigation, in order to instruct lawmakers on a matter that should be addressed and given an account on the matter of corruption, even if a president has a authority that is not his own in any way. As he says, there is no other period in Turkey where the Constitution is being put underfoot. Such a practice does not exist in the history of the world, and is the first in our country as I remember it. Imagine a president who has committed a constitutional crime by choosing a way to instruct lawmakers on a closed investigation, instead of giving them instructions that corruption -- which he knows will reach him -- will lead to corruption. This country can't carry such a president. I hope and wish that our AKP MP brothers, in their honest, honest, and honorable consciences, will weigh this matter to the full and decide on their own conscience. We hope and wait for the president's instructions to be pushed away by his hand.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0052par0243	Thank you, Mr. Sky. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has five papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly With Van MP Nazmi Gür resigning from EU Integration Commission membership, membership in Turkey-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission (KPK) has ended. According to Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 in Turkey, the membership of Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkçı, which has been reported by Peoples' Democratic Party Group Chairman, is presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 12 of the Court of Presidentship. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of Iraqi House of Representatives President Selim Cuburi and the chairman of the Czech House of Representatives, Mr. Jan Hamacek, along with a Parliamentary delegation, was met with the 15/12/2014 decision of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court. The visits of the delegations to our country are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 33620 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly As a result of Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı's resignation as a member of the European Security and Business Association Parliament Assembly Assembly Assembly Assembly (OSCE PA) of Turkey's Delegation of Turkey, the membership of Anthalya MP for 28/03/1990 and MP for the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall be submitted to the General Assembly of the Law on December 19, 2014 under Article 12 of the Law of Justice and Development. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament was eligible for talks with members of the European Parliament on Turkey's Progress Report on the European Union's Co-Chair and Siirt MP Afif Demirkıran's departure to Strasbourg on January 12, 2015. The visit is submitted to the General Assembly's information, according to Article 10 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKP) of the Council of Europe (AKP) has been discharged as a result of the resignation of the Republican People's Party, which is part of Ankara MP Mehmet Emrehan Halici, and has been submitted to the information of the General Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey's Council (AKP) Reserve membership, dated 28/03/1990 and on the regulation of the Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 2 of the Law, reported by the Chairman of the Republican People's Party of the Republic and according to Article 12 of Merkur Law. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Education in the native language has been regarded as an existential right both individually and collectively from the second half of the 20th century, when identity policies are on the agenda in the world. In parallel with the development of the right-seeking approach to education in the native language, the main languages outside the official language in many democratic countries of the world are also being used as the language of education, which is included in many international agreements and agreements. Turkey's long-standing main language education debates are increasing, and the right- demands approach is evolving towards a stage of public sensitivity. I would like to take the initiative of the TBMM on the demands of education in individual and collective language, and ask that a Parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, under the Articles of the Interior Charter, in order to contribute to legal, scientific, political and sociological debates developed by Turkey. The native language is a human saddlebag. Languages are the key element that determines the way individuals and societies think about social life. The native language, so to speak, is important for the survival of the language by standardizing the home of the entity through education as well as by providing more widespread use of the language. Arguing for education as a right in the native language has been developed in parallel with the corrosion of policies that do not conform to social structure and differences, such as the one language, one nation. Many scientific studies have been conducted in the main language, and the results of these studies have shown that primary language education contributes significantly to children's pedagogic development. According to studies, children studying in the native language are experiencing faster learning processes, while education in the native language also makes it seriously easier for children to learn another language. Scientific studies, sociological data and political debates in the native language have brought with it the assurance of education in international treaties and agreements in the main language, directly or indirectly, in the status of rights. Many international texts, such as the UN Convention on Children's Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, EU Criters and Turkish Progress Reports, include encouraging statements that guarantee and encourage education in the main language for education in the language. The world's public debate on education in the main language is about to be exhausted, and there is a consensus that education in the native language is a right. Since primary language education is the right, debates are also being taken on how to train with movement and language, and governments exceed this problem with various practices. Some countries also teach other languages as well as the official language, while some countries implement multilingual training practices. In Belgium, for example, they teach Dutch, French and German, while in Spain they teach Castilian, Catalan, Galicia, and Basque. In the United States, as discussed in Turkey, the interstate education language differs, while state governments decide which language to train in, while Spanish and Native American languages are also taught. In Turkey, education debates in the main language are in public opinion, as well as in the new Constitutional Compromise Commission, which continues its process of building the Constitutional Compromise, and the key point is the government's behind on education in the main language. One government representative describes Kurdish education as following the devil, while the other means Kurdish is not a civilized language. However, according to public research conducted by educational unions, 69% of Turkey's population approves education in the main language. As a result of public sentiment and the government's out-of-date approach, prisoners in prisons demanding basic language education in Turkey have begun an indefinitely unchanging hunger strike to remove barriers related to education in the native language. We demand that a parliamentary investigation of legal arrangements be opened in order to contribute to all these international legal regulations, practices and public sensitivity in Turkey to the new constitutional writing process, to the sensitivity of social rights demands, to the implementation of regulations in accordance with scientific and sociological realities. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The hunger strike, which started in prison on 12/09/2012 and included two political demands, covered dozens of prisons as of today, exceeded the number of prisoners on hunger strike and entered its 51st day of strike. The families of the prisoners are in great pain and concern for their children on strike. Families carry out acts such as hunger strike, sit-in action, press release, visit political parties to end the strike. During these actions, families are subjected to the attacks of security forces, as well as their anxiety is not enough. In accordance with the request of Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, a member of the BDP Mardin MP who has been arrested for investigating the problems facing the families of the prisoners, I respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Today, at the beginning of the country's most important agendas, 683 prisoners in 66 prisons have been subjected to an unchanging hunger strike on their 51st day. The cause of the hunger strike is again due to two important problems in the country that are facing urgent solutions. The prisoners' demands are: the constitutional recognition of the right to education and defence in the main language and the opening of the way for Mr. Abdullah Ocalan to not be interviewed by his attorneys for four hundred and seventy days; the removal of direct isolation; the resolving of health, security and freedom conditions; the start of the negotiation process. Mr. Ocalan has been imprisoned for more than thirteen years in the private prison on İmrali Island. Four hundred and seventy days of counseling, "Coster's broken." The reason is being blocked. Legal legislation makes it possible for him to talk to his lawyers because of his ongoing cases. The only obstacle that comes to mind because the law allows it is a broken and irreparable cosster. Aside from the fact that there will be no private prison in a legal state, it is imperative that all measures and measures be taken in order to remove the physical barriers in front of the right of defence and ensure that the prisoner is met with his lawyer. It's a trick to think that a government that re-prisons a former minister can't correct the physical conditions so that Mr. Ocalan can meet his lawyers. The power that can't fix Kosteri must lead Mr. Ocalan to conditions that can provide the negotiation process with the fact that he is the most important person to solve the Kurdish problem instead of the island he has isolated. That's one of the demands of the prisoners in prison. The right to education and defence in the native language is a congenital and committed right to one. It is the reality of life and the country that has been denied or prevented from limiting this right. This problem that has not been experienced in democratic societies has caused a major blockage in recent days, causing problems in our country. The failure to resolve these two problems in legal ways has led to the starvation and death of nearly 700 prisoners in prisons. The hunger strike is now on the verge of death. With the passing of the 40th day, the strike on the border of death has now become a death fast. Desperately in the face of the insensitivity of political power, relatives of prisoners are visiting solidarity hunger strike, mass march, press release and political parties. During their actions, they are also injured by being attacked by security forces. And indeed, families are in great disquieting doubt. Every moment, they experience the sadness and anxiety of receiving news of their relatives' deaths. It is not difficult to understand the pain of a parent who knows that his child is hungry. In fifty days, these families are in a state of disheartening when they're eating, laughing, going to work. The commission must be established to investigate the legal, financial, and psychological problems of families during which they live. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The hunger strike, which started in prison on 12/09/2012 and included two political demands, has now covered dozens of prisons, over 683 have been held on hunger strike, and the strike has entered its 51st day. After the hunger strikes in the past, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliament research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, with the idea that investigating the economic and social problems of prisoners who have been released or released from the strike will benefit from the end of the ongoing hunger strikes today. According to the Justice Department's latest statement, 683 prisoners in 66 Prisons are on the 51st day of an unchanging hunger strike. Two prisoners have turned the hunger strike into a death fast since 16 October 2012. Hunger strikes are due to two very important reasons. The constitutional recognition of education and defence rights in the native language and the opening of the way for Mr. Abdullah Ocalan to not be interviewed by his attorneys for four hundred and seventy days are two key reasons for the process of negotiations by fixing the conditions of health, safety and freedom. The right to education and defence in the native language is not a problem in modern and democratic countries today. These countries have secured this issue in the past century. In addition, no country in the world, except for two examples, has implemented a private prison and execution system. Of course, the Imralı Island Prison, which violates the court's principle, is also the result of the state's insecurity and fears. It is a shame for the state of law to have a problem that can be solved with a legal arrangement forced to cost hundreds of lives today. There have been many hunger strikes in this country in the past. After the September 12th conflict, hunger strikes were carried out by political and political prisoners. The Diyarbakır Military Prison, which led them, was marked by torture after the September 12, 1980 military coup, and has not been erased from memory by the atrocities that have occurred even today. In Diyarbakır Prison, between 1981 and 1984, in the hunger strike, 34 people lost their lives and dozens were injured. In 1996, nearly 43 prisons in the country, including 2,174 prisoners on hunger strike and 355 prisoners on death fasts to protest the district of Justice Minister Mehmet Agar, have faced health problems related to hunger. The next hunger strike began at the same time in many prisons on October 20, 2000. The hunger strike launched by 816 prisoners turned into a death fast about a month later. During the 1996s and 2000s, many prisoners suffered from hunger sickness, particularly Wernicke Korsakoff Syndrome. The worst consequence of hunger strikes is death. But health problems are the other biggest problem. In addition, there are other major problems with prisoners whose executions have been halted due to permanent health problems following hunger strikes, as well as the fact that they are unable to maintain their lives on their own due to physical barriers, that they are unable to work, that they are lacking social security, and that they are still unable to address health problems. A commission must be set up to investigate the economic and social problems of prisoners whose executions have been halted or released due to health problems following the hunger strikes. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Row, you're in the system, please.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0053par0326	Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to make a brief statement. I'd like to say a few more words against the speech of our Republican People's Party Deputy President friend. Our esteemed President, who lived in the presidency, said: I blame him for that. Zat, who resides in the presidency, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the first President elected by the people's votes, with more than 50 per cent of the vote held in the elections held in Turkey. In addition, it is normal for the President to make statements and analyses in the name of the head of the state against any attempts to pressure and coup against elected power. Because according to the Constitution's ruling, the President represents the unity of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0054par0328	But he'll also insult Turkish.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0053par0329	In and out, we feel it's only natural for him to make a statement and comment on any illegal attacks against our republic and our nation. I wanted to share this on behalf of my group. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0055par0332	But it's not philosophy, it's science, it's something else.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0056par0333	Thank you, Mr. Row. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has a membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who want to run for office on Monday (January 12, 2015) are not members of the political party group. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. According to Article 75 of the Civil Code, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: a) dated 1/10/2010 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. 10/101-110/4091. B) dated 22/9/2011 and B. 02. 0. KKG/101-30/2991. I would like to request that "Responsibility between the Ministry of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of Housing and Construction of the Republic of Iraq be sent back under Article 75 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Justice in accordance with Articles 75, which is deemed appropriate for you to be approved in the Education Area between the Republic of Iraq and the Ministry of Housing and Construction. The bill on Foreign Affairs and Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism Commissions has been restored. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the UN (UN) Security Council's 1368 (2001), 1373 (2001) and 1386 (2001) and the results of the 5 December 2001 Bonn Conference, the strategic command, control and co-operation of the government of Afghanistan was adopted by NATO in 2001 by the Council for International Security and Aid (ISAF) to help build its own security capabilities; in 2003 the responsibility of this force was expanded beyond Kabul by the UN Security Council's decision 1510 (2003). The Turkish Armed Forces have been in Afghanistan since the beginning of Operation ISAF (ISAF) on the basis of the power vested in the government by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on October 10, 2001, and on the basis of decision 722. Operation ISAF, which is under NATO leadership, will be completed by the end of 2014. After that, the Determinate Support Mission will form one of the key elements of NATO's relations with Afghanistan. As part of decisions made in Chicago on May 20-21 and on September 4, 2014 in Wales at the Summits of NATO State and Governments, it is intended that the Decisionary Support Mission, which was envisioned to be launched on 1 January 2015, would not have an effective quality and be carried out for two years in order to provide training, advice and assistance for Afghan national security forces throughout the country. Turkey, which has long-standing brotherhood and friendship relations with Afghanistan, has always supported Afghanistan's national unity, integrity and independence, and has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas, providing the Afghan people to live in peace, stability and prosperity. The country, which is running the largest foreign aid programme in the history of the Republic, is considered to be a natural extension of our bilateral relations with Afghanistan and our active foreign policy in the region. With this approach, the move, the border, the amount, the amount, and the amount, and the amount of time that should be recognised by the government, the Turkish Armed Forces will be carried out in Afghanistan, the Determinated Support Mission for NATO and its continuation, and the request for permission of foreign armed forces to be granted two years in accordance with the government's mandate to participate in the mission, which is for the same purposes. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. The period of speech is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who have taken over Tezkere: Honourable MPs who will speak for the Group of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Chair Idris Bauken, Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğul Türkesh on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Adana MP Osman Faruk Loğoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Kokkar on behalf of the government, Milli Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz; Isparta MP Recep Special, Kurıkkale MP Ramadan Can on behalf of the members. Now, for the sake of the People's Democratic Party Group as the first speaker, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0057par0365	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the People's Democratic Party over the Prime Minister's thesis on sending troops to Afghanistan within NATO and the opening of Turkey's territory to NATO troops. I salute you all. Before I speak, I demand that 2015 bring good fortune to our whole country, to our region, to all our peoples, peace, democracy and freedom. In particular, I sincerely hope that the laws that will contribute to peace, democracy, freedom will be updated and legalized by the hours that will be held here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, the subject of our thesis is extremely important. In fact, in this first General Assembly of 2015, we would like to start working here with a reform package that would contribute to social peace, regional peace, to improve our democracy, but unfortunately, after a long break, after a vacation period, we have again come together with a agenda that puts military thesis ahead. We would like to say that we again consider this a great misfortune. Because, in general, we've always been principled that these military arguments will never bring democracy, peace, freedom to our country or to the peoples that have been dealt with. And this is where I want to express our principled stance on today's thesis from the very beginning. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as you know, in particular on the global plane, the political ground of the new world order has come to life along with 9/11 attacks. The forces behind the 9/11 attacks later carried out major operations, major political planning under the name of security, democracy and terrorism, both to the Middle East and to the Near East, and they pushed all of the people here into a great depression well, so to speak. These Western forces, particularly the United States, have single-handedly brought down regimes, regimes, governances that they have supported for years, in their own best interest, and instead, instead, they have put their own state interests, their own imperial interests on the line. In fact, at the beginning of all these plans that brought blood and gunpowder to the Middle East and to the Near East, we think it's very important to present and identify attacks on October 7, 2001 in Afghanistan. After these attacks, some operations were carried out on the grounds that both the United States (US) and its allies had set out for terrorism, and the peoples were paid a great price, so to speak, the Middle East and the Near East were made a full graveyard for the peoples in search of colonialism. In these policies, which global imperialism has carried out in the Middle East and the Near East since 2001, we have repeatedly stated that Turkey has played the role of a preliminary police station. Unfortunately, today's thesis brings forward a very grave picture to show that Turkey still continues its efforts to carry out its role as a forward outpost, in line with its mission. It is in our opinion that sending troops within the borders of a state without the will of the people there is an updated idea of colonialism. We would especially like to share with the General Assembly what these operations in Afghanistan have brought to this day. If you recall, the departure of these NATO troops, the fact that the policies were involved there, was all intended to bring democracy, prosperity and peace to the people of Afghanistan and the region. Well, I think it's very important to see the next painting, as a result of these operations and policies from 2001 to today, to actually assess whether prosperity, peace and security have been provided for the people in the region. Look, from 2001 onwards, 3,485 NATO soldiers have lost their lives, 14 of them being Turkish soldiers, from the day they went to Afghanistan on the basis of extreme organizations such as the International Security Aid Force, the Taliban, al-Qaeda. Again, the bombings that NATO had done during this process were also marked by massacres from wedding sites to civilian settlements, villages to stadiums, to human memory, to human history, unfortunately. According to 2013 data, 20,000 people lost their lives and hundreds of thousands were severely injured in the conflict from that date until now. So when NATO and its allies said that we would bring peace, peace and security to Afghanistan, they carried death, blood, tears, and pain. These attitudes of NATO and its allies deepened the human crisis there every day. Instead of rulings based on the will of the people, some policies have been implemented through puppet governments that have seized that will. With impossible mistakes to make amends, with policies that turn people against them, and with the massacres of warplanes, particularly drones, the populations in Afghanistan were pushed into the arms of the Taliban, the Al Qaeda organization. The reflection of these faulty policies did not occur only in Afghanistan. These wrong policies in Afghanistan, especially Pakistan, Bangladesh, Syria, Nigeria, Somalia, and Iraq, have provided an enormous basis for the strengthening of these extremist organizations. At the root of all of this, we can easily say that during the Cold War, the imperialist forces that supported Al Qaeda and the Taliban against the Soviet Union were dealing with a monster that they had created with their own hands. When the monster they created with their own hands attacked America, when it attacked Europe, then a number of different policies of these imperial forces were restored, unfortunately, to bring death to the peoples. We can also consider the attacks on the synagogue in Istanbul and the attacks on the HSBC Bank as part of this global threat. Dear lawmakers, Afghanistan is not only a country that is a victim of war; it is a country that has become a centre for drug trafficking and human trafficking. And so far, NATO intervention has brought with it a painting that has deteriorated every day in terms of drug trafficking and human trafficking. From Afghanistan to Europe, we need to express that the drugs traffic and the centre of human trafficking are also from Turkey. We want to say again that Al Qaeda and Taliban militants who settled in Afghanistan used Turkey's territory to go to Iraq, Syria, where they caused great atrocities to the people. Turkey, unfortunately, has not given up on a number of policies that will allow all these Al Qaeda groups to pass freely to Iraq, Rojava, and to this day, under the protection of the Free Syrian Army. We particularly think that the strengthening of both Al Nusra and ISIS in Syria and Iraq is directly related to false NATO policies, Turkey's faulty policies. This is where we want to express that Qatar (Katar) and Saudi Arabia had a great share in these wrongs, especially Turkey. I'm sure that the speakers who will speak for Mr. Secretary or the EC PARTY will bring to our attention that Turkish soldiers are not members of the Turkish Armed Forces. But we do know that the fact that they're not from the combat class will never stop these extremes from targeting Turkey for every development in Afghanistan in the coming period. We also want to say that Al Qaeda, ISIS, or other extremist organizations that are close to it are organized in Turkey in a very comfortable way, and that it almost forms the organisational backbone in the entire Middle East through Turkey. In many of the attacks carried out in Rojava, we are one to one witness to the actions of this vertebrate, organized force. Especially since this recent raid of the Musul consulate, we would like to express here as a great danger to Mr. President that some trades have been made over political and diplomatic negotiations, that ISIS, al-Qaeda's top staff, as well, should be sent back to Middle Eastern geography. We want to express here that it is not possible to send troops to Afghanistan. If Turkey wants to help the Afghan people, Turkey should send doctors, engineers, teachers, provide technical support for the scientific schools that are opened there, while women are active in studies that will allow young people to be conscious. Not the Afghan police who have been raised according to NATO criteria, but we think they should strive to develop a force that knows the identity, religion, religion, language, respect for the Afghan people. We would like to rephrase that security-oriented measures will never come to fruition, rather than safety-oriented measures, there will be a number of relations that will be based on the peace and peace of the peoples there. Dear lawmakers, on this occasion, I, in general, would like to stress a few issues concerning foreign policy during the AKP era. Unfortunately, not only in Afghanistan, as I just stated, but in Syria and Iraq, almost all of the Middle East is now on the verge of bankruptcy, a foreign policy that employs some extremist organizations. We want to say that a concept that now deals with organisations instead of governments, based on the interests of governments, is now in place of bankrupt policies on this issue. Turkey has become increasingly lonely after its foreign policy mistakes, and has come to a crossroads even with its most recent chief friend, Qatar, the co-director of these policies. Even Qatar has set a distance from these extremist organizations and has launched a new set of diplomatic talks to improve relations with Egypt. Especially during the AKP period, we think it's very instructive to see what level of relations with Iraq, Iran and Syria, what relations are in place in foreign policy, to turn from the wrong in terms of the coming period, to produce the right policies. I'm sure that during a previous intervention in Libya, the Prime Minister of the period, the current President Erdogan, had a conversation about sending troops to NATO, we all bear in mind. After NATO's statement stating that NATO had no such rights and that it would not accept it, NATO intervened in Libya, and Turkey had to keep its policies at the opposite point. We want to emphasize here that all of these foreign policy errors, especially with policies that feed on a neo-human set of utopian dreams, have created a huge reaction to the Middle Eastern people, creating a major antipathy. Especially in Rojava, and in Kobani, before all the world's eyes, the AKP government has never put a satisfactory distance between him and ISIS, which the world has declared to be a violent organization. When it came to Kobani, when it came to Rojava, the reckless statements made by the Kurds there about the people's failure to achieve gains, in all the peoples -- especially Kurds -- brought with them a great deal of anger, a huge reaction. In particular, we would like to express here as a big mistake that AKP is still insisting on these policies at a time when many of the forces who advocated similar policies with the AKP in the early days today had to accept the reality of Rojava, the reality of Kobani, the legitimacy of Kurds, the status demand of other peoples. When you look from all over the world, the painting in Kobani is clear. In Kobani, and Rojava, there is a barbaric ISIS organization that is trying to slaughter mankind, where all peoples have an international power that is united in the leadership of YPJ-YPG, which tries to save the dignity of mankind. Therefore, we want to express from here that it is time for the change of policies with the Shengal, especially with Kobani and Rojava. I'd like to point out that the outside perception is still not passed through the articles where the AKP was mentioned, along with ISIS. ISIS has pulled the pin of a bomb that will attack Kobani, attack Rojava, and end its own, but the sight of Turkey at one end of this pin from all over the world brings a dramatic situation to our attention. We think it would be best for all of us if a new policy was determined on the basis of legitimacy of the Kurdish people's demand for status of all the other peoples there. Look, valuable lawmakers, we've been asking Turkey for a full month under the conditions of the winter, asking for permission for diesel and tube gas. We don't have an approach to Turkey demanding it from its own budget. Either we get it from here, or Turkey has been blocking the gas and diesel crossing for civilians living in Kobani for a full month, with a corridor permitted from the Cizire Canton. The intelligence in Kobani has strong data that ISIS, whose work is about to end, will attack chemical weapons. For a full month, even our desire to send gas masks to Kobani, against the chemical weapons of ISIS, has not been met by Turkey. Turkey continues to withhold these corridors of humanity from the people of Kobani, the people of Rojava, as opposed to the cantons there. We want to express that these insights will do great harm, that they will increase regional chaos, that they will not serve the peace of our country. We would like to express to government officials again that one goal of the process of solutions inside is to end the 30-year conflict with lasting peace, and another goal is to form an historic Turkish-Kurdish alliance in the Middle East. We say that it is correct to immediately abandon all these mistakes, to focus more on policies that predate security in Afghanistan, prioritize military measures, prioritize military consultations, that will lead to peace, democracy, freedom of the peoples there. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I'd like to say that I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0058par0386	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0059par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0058par0388	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0059par0389	The speaker used such a word as the canton of Cirre. There's no such canton.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0060par0390	Not in Turkey, my dear.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0061par0391	Jazeera or Cizre?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0062par0392	He said the one on the other side, on the other side of Syria.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0063par0393	That's Al Jazeera. Did he say Al Jazeera or Cizre?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0061par0394	Al Jazeera? Let's get him on the record.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0064par0395	Mr. President, for the record, there are now three cantons in Rojava, the Canton of Afrin, Kobani, and Jazeera, which are declared by the people there. These are the cantons I was talking about earlier.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0063par0396	We don't know whether it's Jazeera or Cizre.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0064par0397	Jazeera.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0065par0398	Jazeera, okay. Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0066par0402	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion of the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad under the continuation of NATO's support mission in Afghanistan. As I begin to speak, I salute the great Assembly, asking the Lord God to bless our country and our nation for the new year. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, while we are in Afghanistan, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to contact the broad lines of the historical period of the Islamic world, to do a series of diagnostics and tests in this direction. The Islamic world is going through a very difficult, difficult and delicate process. Sadly, from East Turkistan to Palestine, from Yemen to Syria, from Nigeria to Bangladesh to the heart of the West, 1.5 billion Muslims suffer a thousand plagues every day. Through blood, war, terror, murder, persecution, violence, oppression, oppression and intimidation, systematic destruction, denial and assimilation operations, arson, harassment, rape and black propaganda today, the Islamic world is under attack both from the inside and the outside. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to mention it later and I believe that we need to do an internal accounting of this great world that we are involved in before we can move on to alien origins that attack Muslims with inhospitably. Accounting should be operated in the most intense and comprehensive way in Turkey, which has been the patronage of the world's Muslims over the years. The Republic of Turkey has a national and spiritual duty in this direction, and it is time and even time to take our responsibilities. I'd like to ask: can we consent to a system where women are metabolized, bought, sold, enslaved? Can we allow the cruel military education of play-year-old boys, little girls, students, to be forced to marry? Can we accept that an ethnic group or community is forced to choose between being banished from its cursed land and being slaughtered? Can we be on the same side as those who, as a manifestation of their relentless illness, share their headlines with the rest of the world? Can we remain silent about the execution and execution of religious scholars, parish or party leaders who are out of the reach of official ideology? Can we put up with those who brutally raid schools where young saplings are raised and educated? The only answer to all of these questions is no. This is where our country's national and spiritual duty begins with our answer, "No." Dear lawmakers, violence has no place in Islam, especially non-target and barbaric violence. Islam brings peace, peace, and mercy to the lands it reaches. It must be a moral duty for us to fight against the evil intentions of the Koran, who have declared that we should forgive our enemy, that those who do not forgive us today will not be forgiven tomorrow. Dear lawmakers, in many parts of our state's Islamic geography, there are military missions within various international institutions and organisations. Mehmetçik represents presence in critical countries such as Afghanistan, Lebanon, Mali and Kosovo. This, of course, is important and true to Turkey, but it is clearly not enough. In addition to the presence of the elements of our Turkish Armed Forces in these areas, and perhaps most importantly, our human and religious institutions need to take serious action. The chairmanship of Religious Affairs, which has a considerable share in the budget, needs to be more active in areas where there is war, religious and religious conflict. In addition, with strategic planning and preferences, it would be wise to open the way for the activities of the TİKA (TİKA) to be concentrated in certain parts of the world. Our government, perhaps in good faith, should be everywhere at the same time. It moves with the formula, but unfortunately, the results are not always as expected. It may be flattering to see TİKA (TİKA) give equal weight to each region, to want to spread activities around the world, but as a result, this request remains fluid. What's important is that TİKA (TİKA) implements its applications with a strategic plan that will be set up long-term, conjunctural and infertile beyond the vicious cycles. A series of choices must be made in this sense and priorities must be set. For example, you go to Colombia, Georgia, or Moldova, a little less, but on the other hand, you give more resources to Afghanistan, Somalia, Yemen. Of course, any choice is a waiver, but it is clear that the choices made with determination will have more benefits. Dear lawmakers, I would like to stress from the seat of the High Assembly the importance of the President of Religious Affairs in foreign activities. We need to consider the reasons for the gloomy painting of the Islamic world that I've just tried to describe. We need to look at the source of our internal conflicts, our fights, other than external interference. What are the factors that serve the birth and development of structures such as Al-Qaeda, ISIS, Al-Shabab, Boko Haram, or Taliban, we need to ask the question. At this point, I think Turkey's national, spiritual, and especially historical savings have a decisive role in finding the answer. We, from Yemen to Kosovo, from Tunisia to Palestine, from Damascus to Algeria, are heirs to a state tradition that has made peace for centuries. In this sense, the Ottoman Empire has served directly to promote, settle, and promote Islamic religion from the Balkans to North Africa. The historical source of modern Turkey's national and spiritual mission should also be sought in this exact collection. The chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is the final link and modern representative of the great breakthrough in history, at least it should be. So instead of being trapped inside, it must be opened and reach out to countries accepting its services. To tell you the truth, I'd like to see the money of a hundred thousand dollars of luxury authority for the president of the Religious Affairs to be used for superior services to the world of Islam. I'd like to underline this issue on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, the Islamic world must ask themselves: Why is it that Turkey does not have an Al Qaeda, an ISIS, a Boko Haram? Why do these plagues find my country? Why does war, terror and blood only find Muslims in my country? The moment these questions are asked, the importance of the President of Religious Affairs, not only for Turkey, but for the entire Islamic world, will be better understood by everyone. I invite the government's rulers to think about it and take initiative. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's look at the other side of the medallion. Of course, they are not the only ones responsible for the suffering of the world's Muslims, their internal conflicts, disagreements, or lack of organization. Consider, for example, the ISIS, which is referred to as "DAESH" today and operates under the name of "Iraq Damascus," or "Levant Islamic State" in the early days. Why would an organization that really is Middle Eastern use the Western concept of the name "Levant" as such, and why would it come out with such a name? In the same way, what do we say that the so-called caliph, the leader of this organization, was photographed in a photograph taken between 2011 and 2012 in a conversation with a foreign senator? Again, how do we explain that this organization has only killed Muslims, destroyed shrines, mosques? These are extremely innocent, accurate and accurate questions, valued lawmakers. And it continues: How are we going to explain the recent civil wars, coups, divisions of oil fields, natural gas, such rich underground resources? Here is the situation of Sudan; in Mali, and in Central Africa, the blood is taking over, Nigeria is fighting a twisted organization, and Burkina Faso has had a military coup in the past few months. Is it a simple coincidence that these things happen simultaneously? That's Afghanistan. They left Afghanistan, a deep history, culture, and location, into the swamp of opium and opium. It's not over, let's go further. How should we interpret sectary-based conflicts in Yemen? How, in Somalia, or rather the international trade route, was the piracy that took place in the Gulf of Aden, where its head was cut as a knife? I wonder if any of you remember any of the pirates from Somalia. Why does Israel insist on shooting Gaza, the Gaza Strip, the valued MPs? Why are Jewish settlements in Gaza Strip increased? For pure political, religious, or ideological reasons, or for the monopoly and so-called safety of natural gas reserves in the eastern Mediterranean? In addition, what was the main cause of the blow in Egypt? Why was Sisi chosen over Mursi? Was it just ideological? I'm sure today's alliance within the exclusive economic zone in the eastern Mediterranean is whispering something to you, the notion of energy lobbying reminds you of something. Dear lawmakers, we must learn from these questions rather than from the answers to these questions. For what? To set up a long-term, national and inter-party state strategy. In fact, there is only one door to which these questions are opened, which is the freezing reality of foreign policy, the necessity of realism. I'm not looking for conspiracy, conspiracy or conspiracy here, I'm just asking and questioning. For example, we hear about the Western script, the Western game, the complaining, the criticism, or the accusations, every day. Dear lawmakers, it is time for these criticisms to actually evolve into a autonomy. How can we blame them for following a realist policy that suits the interests of the West? Why can't we fight back here, and why can't we build a policy that's in our own interests, that's why we should criticize ourselves. Our Turkey has such a state savings, power and power, valued MPs. Our mistake, as I said in the beginning, is our national lack of strategy. Such a realist policy is prepared for us, our state mind, our human resources, our politicians. As long as it's a joint plan and will. The Islamic world needs such a line as much as Turkey does, as I just mentioned. That's where our national-management mission, which I'm standing at the beginning of my speech, begins. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to tell you about a couple of cases of Islamophobia that have been raised in the West. The results of the 2014 European Parliament elections were almost a harbinger of today's elections. The hostility to racism and Islam in Europe is now reflected in the street after the polls. In 2011, the civil crusader initiative, which was launched in Norway with Breivik, finally reached one of the peak points in Germany with the example of PEGIDA, turning it into a hate campaign against Turks and Muslims living in Europe. I regret to inform you that at this point, I have not heard of any attempts by our government in the European state, especially in Germany. Again, no comforting message was given to the public about these alarming developments. I think our government should have made it clear to Germany that racism, discrimination and hatred would never include freedom of expression, that it was a clear democratic weakness, and that those who taught Turkey first had to clear the front of their own doors, even their homes. At the end of the 19th century, Kaiser II. How quickly did they forget that Wilhelm took the title of patron of all Muslims, that at the beginning of the 20th century, the German people looked up to Jön Turks, the late Enver Pasha, the late Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and that their country fought shoulder to shoulder with Muslims during the First World War. I think they need to be reminded of that. More and more large and small civil crusaders across Europe want to spread the anti-Islamicism on a social basis, with actions leading up to the arson of mosques and killing of Turkish and Muslim girls. The government, which must object to the situation with the loudest voice, remains unequivocally silent. I urge the authorities to report to the authorities that the state of the Republic of Turkey is disturbed and to share these messages with the public. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party Group, our view of the provision of the NATO Armed Forces' support mission carried out in Afghanistan is clear, but for the last time, participation in military missions is not enough; it is not enough; we must mobilise all our human and spiritual resources in the fight against terrorism, war, destruction. We have to do this for the greater good of both our country and the entire Islamic world, and then we're late, and we wish we didn't. As I end my speech, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0067par0421	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Osman Faruk Logogoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0068par0425	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office for the decisive support mission NATO will perform in Afghanistan. I salute you all. Bilvesile, I wish the salvation of Adana on January 5th to be blessed on behalf of all our Adana MPs. Starting with my words, my condolences to the People's Democratic Party Group. Dear friends, the year 2015, which I wish was good for mankind, will be a period of very important domestic and external developments for our country. The 100th anniversary of the 1915 events, which have been the source of our foreign relations, Armenian claims, will brand 2015, especially in the context of Syria and Cyprus in our region. Inside, the main issues of our agenda will be general elections, the outcome of the solution process, corruption, constitutional debates, the fragile state of the economy and attacks on secularism. I'd like to make some observations at this point. In these early days of 2015, when we ask where our country is, the answer is clear, and unfortunately it is not pleasant. Turkey is drifting through a bitter vortex, democracy is over, basic rights and freedoms have been reset, like so many other things. According to our constitution, the power of power in our country, which should be run by the parliamentary system, is today based on an actually authoritarian presidential system. The AKP has rescinded its division of men, which it considers a drag, and has adopted a style of governance, where each decision is determined by one person. The president acts as if he's completely under the influence, and the Prime Minister, who's able to honor his silence, is acting as if he's not, as if he's the head of the administration. The decision-making authority is not responsible for the action, but the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the execution, is not the one who makes the decisions. In no country, this strange situation, which is expected to take on a new concept of political science, unlike any regime, lives every day in Turkey. Yesterday, even my brother who was corrupt, I would cut off his arm. Despite a prime minister who owns a legislator's exit, the members of the relevant investigation commission have said no to the High Council of the four ministers, according to instructions taken from another source. Unfortunately, the AKP is determined not to leave a black page in Turkish political history and to add new rings to the chain of shame. However, I warn you that the blows to the conscience with the hands raised here are mortal and temporary, and justice is eternal. Surely the guilty shall be equitable, and on the Day of Resurrection they shall be questioned. You can only delay your public account with the power of temporary power, but in the end, you can't avoid accountability. Dear friends, with the rule of law and the coup d'etat of independence of the judiciary, our democracy has suffered the worst losses. Today, there are only scraps of justice left in our country, which is the oxygen that democracy breathes. These days, when justice occurs somewhere, we all rejoice as if it were an extraordinary event. Justice, however, is important in real democracies, but ordinary and unsurprising. We're left with the crumbs of justice, which we owe to our responsible, brave, honest judges and prosecutors who are trying to consume generations. Another area that has been severely damaged in terms of permanent and comprehensive effects has been our educational system. The principle of secularism, which constitutes the tuition of our republic, is also wanted to be terminated and end through education, by ending science and scientific institutions, by becoming religious, dogmatic and outdated madrassa. The future of our children and our young ones is blackened, and their brains are occupied by nonsense. This reactionary understanding, which is being imposed on the minds of future generations and the future of a country, is going to cost our country a lot of money. In the Soviet era, it's said that the biggest sin of the communist regime is killing people's dreams, and it's worse than that. Today, with a sense of education in the AKP's power, people's creativity, their ability to question, they are wanted to be brought up to be feared, non-responsive, non-responsive individuals and spiteful generations to silence those who object to this dogmatic understanding. Dear lawmakers, 2015 will also be a critical year in terms of the outcome of the long-known solution process. Even though there was no real compensation, although the alleged contents and calendar were still unknown, the Republican People's Party agreed to the solution to make the blood flow permanent. We did, but we weren't disruptive. We made our own constructive suggestions, we took our proposals to the government, we offered the law, but we're concerned. Our main concern is the strong belief that, as the AKP has done so many times before, the solution is to use the process as a political tactical approach to defeat the votes of our Kurdish citizens before the elections. It appears that all negotiations between the AKP and the PKK are tied at the point of the release of Abdullah Ocalan, head of the PKK, which even the government calls a terrorist. If the end of Ecalan (Ecalan) replaces a real, comprehensive and permanent solution, the AKP will reach its goal, and our Kurdish citizens will celebrate, thinking they have triumphed, but the unresolved Kurdish issue will harm society in the middle and long term. Three years ago, on October 5, 2011, I said again from this stand that the final place for the solution is not the AKP-PKK secret negotiating table, but this Grand Assembly. Respected lawmakers, one of the most negative developments our country could face in 2015 is the possibility of making a decision supporting the alleged Armenian genocide of the United States Congress. Because with the help of AKP's foreign policy debris, all the stones appear to be in favor of the Armenians in the United States. President Obama is a politician who announced in advance that he had accepted the story of genocide and confirmed it even during his visit to Turkey. Today, Obama, as the Americans call it, is not strong against internal and external pressures. Moreover, the recent developments in Turkey-American relations, especially in the Middle East, and the challenges in fighting terrorism, both make the Armenian pressure in the United States more felt, and in the face of Congress, President Obama weakens Obama. On the other hand, there have always been times in the Senate and the House of Representatives to approve Armenian claims, regardless of the difference between Republican and Democrat. Therefore, the reason that no genocide decision has been issued in Congress so far is not because there are not enough quantitative majoritys, but because the American governments have used the national argument of interest to stop Congress. Due to the internal and foreign policies followed by the AKP, the White House may not use the national interest card in Turkey this time. In short, it seems very difficult for President Obama to stop Congress in 2015. In addition, the strong Jewish lobby, which has always stood by Turkey against the Armenian pressures on Congress, is no longer with us because of the negative situation of Turkey-Israel relations. It may also affect Congress's decision that Turkey is increasingly under suspicion in the international community because of its claims that it supports ISIS as militants and weapons. Why is a genocide verdict from the U.S. Congress important? We've seen a lot of decisions, so let's get one out of there. Answer: It is important because many reasons and other countries will have different meanings and consequences than similar decision-making laws. First: Such a decision has a devastating impact on Turkey-American relations, and its effects are deep and lasting in political and strategic dimensions. Second: The country, which has not yet decided in this direction, affects its parliaments in favour of Armenian thesis. Third: With the possible Congress victory, the Armenian side continues its actions with a serious boost of morale. Fourth, and most importantly, the Armenian side has reached the lever that will carry its struggle with the social and political plan so far into the legal plan by the resolution of the U.S. Congress. The Armenian side's goal is not only to accept genocide stories, but also to make Turkey pay a heavy price. For these reasons, the decision of Congress has special meaning and significance. Because this decision will pave the way for the return of land, property and property from Turkey, the return of property, the demand for compensation and the payment of insurance costs to US courts. Land demands are nothing to be taken seriously, but other elements are serious. U.S. courts, such cases have been filed by the Armenians so far. These are political cases, and the American government has no guiding decision on this matter. Thus, a Congress resolution supporting Armenian claims, depending on its content, will pave the way for numerous lawsuits against Turkey in American courts and will allow the proceedings to be passed against Turkey. This negative potential in the United States can also happen in Europe and in European courts, if it is combined with legal regulations by member states, according to the European Union's framework resolution. In short, we need to consider that our country is awaiting a full legal nightmare scenario in our relations with America and Europe. Since neither we Armenians nor the Armenians will accept our history story, it is imperative that we look for a common meeting point. The chances of such a compromise are far more powerful and more likely than that one of the parties will allow the other to accept their views. Therefore, we need to work not on a major breaking point in 2015, but on a point where the two sides will meet in agreement. We need to show that we are not afraid of our common history, that we are not enemies of the Armenians, that we are historically friends with them. Of course, there are multi-directional preparations being made by the government and our institutions, but since these are non-negotiable, defence-oriented preparations, the effects will likely be limited. In addition to these preparations, we need to develop other approaches. First, a new initiative could be launched in accordance with the declaration of 13 April 2005 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey unanimously. If it can be done, the nature of such an enterprise must be determined under this roof again. Mr. President, I'm not going to mention any more problems like Cyprus, Syria, Iraq, regional Kurdish dynamics, Arab Spring, Mountain Karabag and Ukraine because we don't have time. However, developments in these issues will continue to affect our country directly in 2015. If the existing foreign policy trends inherited as a wreck from Davutoglu do not change radically, the negative effects of developments in the world and in our region will continue to increase and concentrate on our country. Mr. President, after drawing this general framework, I'd like to move on to the subject of the Afghanistan thesis. The duration and purpose of this thesis under NATO's Determination Support Mission in Afghanistan is defined. The Republican People's Party has always stood by the friendship of Turkey-Afganistan, whose foundations have been thrown out by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and has advocated the strengthening of this friendship at all times and the continued solidarity of the two brothers and sisters. The results of the second round of presidential elections held in Afghanistan in June were finally agreed on, and the partnership of President Eşref Gani and his opponent, Abdullah Abdullah Abdullah, agreed to establish a national unity government in which the ministries would be divided equally. The successful conclusion of this initiative is vital to the future of Afghanistan, the uninterrupted stay of foreign support for Afghanistan, especially for the better and healthier living conditions for the Afghan people. During all ruling times, Turkey has united with the Afghan people, including the current period of power, and has strengthened our solidarity with our Afghan brothers by diversifying and enriching the contribution it has made in recent years. We take it well, and we appreciate it. The next Afghanistan thesis envisions arrangements for the continuation of NATO-led assistance within the framework of the UN Security Council's decisions. The thesis envisions that Mehmetçik will not -- will not have a successful mission again -- will only function with education, counselling and aid functions. Foreign soldiers' travel and arrival through Turkey is a continuation of practices so far in the context of Afghanistan. As you know, in the ISAF, soldiers from third countries went to Afghanistan through Germany, from the United States, from other countries, from the provinces of Samsun, Tripoli, and on their return they were able to use the same routes. As a result, our Republican People's Party Group will vote favourably for the Afghanistan thesis. I wish you all the best for brother Afghans and Afghanistan, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0069par0447	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Çonkar on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0070par0451	Mr. President, we have taken a pledge from the EC PARTİ Group to participate in the mission of foreign armed forces for the same purposes, which the Turkish Armed Forces will carry out as part of NATO Support Mission and the continuation of its provisions in Afghanistan, to be allowed to be sent abroad for two years under the Prime Ministerate's thesis on taking action to Afghanistan, as part of its resuscitation, and to make arrangements that will be possible by the government. I hereby salute the High Council. Our country has ties of friendship and brotherhood with Afghanistan, whose roots date back to history. Our relations have been established on a covenant basis with an alliance agreement in 1921, providing assistance for our country, Afghanistan, in various areas under the agreement. Afghanistan, the second state to recognise young Turkey, is one of our country's foreign policy priorities. In this framework, Turkey has supported Afghanistan's national unity, integrity, independence and modernisation efforts, and has been in solidarity with Afghanistan, which ensures the welfare of Afghan people; it has played a key role in developing state institutions, such as property, military, culture, education, and health. Between 1932 and 1960, our country sent teachers, doctors, officers and experts to Afghanistan. This close friendship and cooperation continued until Afghanistan was under the influence of the Soviet Union. Our country was determined to contribute to efforts to bring stability and peace to Afghanistan during the current period of the 1989 invasion of the Soviet Union. Our excellent bilateral relations with Afghanistan were crowned with the official visit of our President to Afghanistan on October 18, 2014. The visit was the first visit from Turkey to Afghanistan at the President's level after forty-six years. Dear MPs, as we all know, from the end of the 1970s, were able to accommodate terrorist organizations in Afghanistan, where the invasion and civil war led to instability. The acts of terrorism committed in the United States on 9/11 2001 have shown us that countries in instability pose a painful threat not only to their own communities, but also to the entire international community. In this framework, transitions related to Operation ISAF, launched in 2001, led by NATO in Afghanistan to regain stability. Afghan people have shown their determination to personally determine the future of their country by participating in the 2014 presidential elections. With presidential elections, which constitute the most important element of the political transition process, for the first time in Afghanistan, government has changed hands in democratic ways. However, the gains of the thirteen years we left behind in Afghanistan remain fragile. Afghanistan has been one of the most devastated countries in the world for over a quarter of a century of occupation and internal strife. Social indicators are at their lowest levels, and most of the public still has no access to electricity, clean water, basic health care and education, unfortunately. According to UN estimates, 60 per cent of Afghanistan's illegal national product is still available from opium production. According to different sources, between 50 per cent and 80 per cent of the population's daily income is less than $1. It is important that the international community continue to support Afghanistan in security, capacity formation and development. As a sign of Turkish-Afgan solidarity, our country's development programme in Afghanistan since 2001 has been the largest foreign aid programme Turkey has ever done for a country with more than $300m in financial value. Finally, in 2015-2017, the country pledged to contribute to the development of Afghanistan for the project, at $150m. Mr. President, our country has a high regard for the development of Afghanistan. In this context, Turkey has carried out more than 800 Projects in Afghanistan so far. In all the 34 provinces of Afghanistan, these contributions to non-ethnic discrimination among fellow Afghans were at least a project. The largest share of our country's development aid to Afghanistan has been divided into education. Turkey has built 85 schools in Afghanistan so far, and more than 700,000 Afghan citizens have used education services in schools our country has built. Health care is the second-largest pen of development aid for Afghanistan. 17 hospitals and clinics have been built and repaired in the healthcare area of the total 214 projects. Two hospitals and two clinics have been run by our country for the past five years, and nearly 3.5 million Afghans have used health services provided by the hospitals and clinics our country operates. One of the biggest contributions offered to Afghanistan in the field of health is expected to be the Aliabad Hospital Project. As part of the project, our country is scheduled to allocate $150m for the next five years. Another pen of development assistance is provided by transport and storage services. A total of 20 projects have been conducted in this area, including road construction, asphalting, bridge construction and repair. Agriculture, forestry, fishing, infrastructure, irrigation and civil aviation are other areas of development aid for Afghanistan. 43 projects have been implemented in the field of cultural and social peace. As part of our contribution in this area, the establishment of the Turkish-Afgan Masklana Jalâlaletini Rumi University continues. A total of 51 projects have been carried out under emergency and humanitarian aid, and finally, after the flood of May 2014, our country has extended its hand to Afghanistan again. In addition, equipment and software from the Afghan Foreign Ministry, which has provided support for the intelligence infrastructure of the Afghanistan State Department, has been established by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also, Afghan diplomats are trained by our State Department in various matters in our country. Dear lawmakers, our country also organises comprehensive training programmes for the Afghan National Police, under the importance of providing security for its security in Afghanistan. In this framework, we have trained as many as 17,000 Afghan soldiers and police in Afghanistan and Turkey. In a wide range of executives to law enforcement, Afghan personnel are organised training in the field of anti-drugs. $10 million of our $20 million contribution to Afghanistan's security forces this year will be spent on the police force. Mr. President, our country's contributions to Afghanistan are also being carried out on multi-sided platforms, where it leads. Our country also says the problems facing Afghanistan pose a threat to its territory. In this respect, on 2 November 2011, the Istanbul Conference for Afghanistan was held in connection with Security and Co-operation in the Heart of Asia, in co-chairs of our country and Afghanistan to establish regional cooperation. About 45 delegations, including regional countries, supporting countries and international organisations, participated in the conference, which was held in Beijing on October 30, 31, 2014, with a delegation at the head of our Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeantoglu. The conference revealed the importance of the international community's support for Afghanistan, the implementation of trust-building measures, and reflecting concrete gains on the field. The causes and consequences of the problems facing Afghanistan are of great interest to the entire region and beyond. Thus, the guarantee of peace and stability in Afghanistan will have lasting results only if it is improved on a regional basis. With that understanding, a special co-operation mechanism focused on political dialogue, security, cooperation and development was also committed by Turkey-Afganistan-Pakistan Trilateral Summit Process, which was launched by our country in 2007. Dear lawmakers, as you can see from the information I've given you upstairs, friend and sister Afghanistan remains the meaning and importance that it has always had for our country in the multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional foreign policy perspective that we're running. As you know, the International Security and Help Force (ISAF) established in 2001 was assumed by NATO on April 16, 2003 by the NATO Permanent Council. The Turkish Armed Forces have been operating within the ISAF since the beginning of the operation, with the Turkish Grand National Assembly's October 10, 2001, resolution 722. As of this date, our country has led the ISAF Command and the Kabul Regional Command, contributed personnel to the NATO Education Mission in Afghanistan, established the Gazi Military Education Centre in the Kabul Regional Command, established two zoning teams in Vardak and Cevizcan. As I said earlier, an intensive training programme involving thousands of personnel for the Afghanistan police and their army has been carried out by our relevant institutions. Our contributions have been in harmony with our long-standing relations with Afghanistan, as well as our obligations stemming from Alliance solidarity and the North Atlantic Treaty. In these days, preparations for a new era are being carried out for Afghanistan within NATO, which remains the basis of our international security and defence policy. Since 2003 it has been under NATO leadership and has been completed on 31 December 2014, in accordance with the decision made by NATO heads of state and government at the 2012 Chicago Summit, which is the longest and most comprehensive action of the alliance outside of Euro-Atlantic geography. NATO's relations with Afghanistan, permanent partnership, NATO's role in the fiscal sustainability of the Afghan National Security Forces and the Determinate Support Mission are based on three main columns in the coming period. Despite activities conducted in various areas under permanent partnerships, this partnership has generally avoided meeting expectations for both Afghanistan and NATO until now. However, our efforts to strengthen the lasting partnership have formed a consensus between our efforts and the Allies, and the work in that direction has gained speed recently. Despite all the progress he's made, the Afghan National Security Forces have serious talent flaws. In this regard, the budget for Afghan National Security Forces must be supported by the international community until Afghanistan has the necessary resources. For this purpose, NATO members and joint countries will contribute a total of $5 billion to the coming term. In this framework, we have a $60 million commitment for the next three years. After 2014, NATO will form a third of the key elements of its relations with Afghanistan, and perhaps the most important, the Determinated Support Mission. The Determinated Support Mission, which was scheduled to be launched on 1 January 2015, will not be a combative one. This mission will be carried out throughout the country to provide training, advice and assistance to Afghan National Security Forces and security institutions, which will take full responsibility for security from the date mentioned. Dear lawmakers, under the Determinated Support Mission, our country is in charge of a very important task with its Kabul Regional Command cap. Our country will lead Kabul and its surrounding NATO forces, while in the south and east, the United States, Germany in the north and Italy in the west will carry out the same task. However, as appreciated, the most important role in this framework will be taken over by our country, which will serve in the capital. Turkey has also claimed responsibility for operating the Kabul International Airport, the largest airport in the country, which served as the gate to the outside world of Afghanistan, for 2015 and 2016. Plans for the deployment of around 800 to 1,000 TSK personnel are under way as part of the Determined Support Mission in Afghanistan. Our Police General Directorate, which has done extremely well in the training of members of Afghan law enforcement institutions so far, also envisions hiring staff in this framework. In addition to co-operation with allies under the Determined Support Mission, fellow and sister countries in the Balkans, as in the ISAF period, will be served along with Albania and Macedonia. As of January 1, 2015, the ambassador of Kabul served as NATO's Senior Civil Representative in Afghanistan. The fact that our ambassador will perform the NATO Senior Representative's post through the NATO Secretary General's election in 2003 is a sign of both the alliance and our allies and our Afghan brothers' trust in our country. Our country will also take over NATO's Mission to Contact Points in this country in 2015-2016 through our Kabul Embassy. Dear MPs, as a result, Turkey will be there as long as our Afghan brothers need and continue to contribute to Afghanistan, as long as it needs, in view of our special and long-standing relations with this country, as well as the general understanding that the reintegration of instability in Afghanistan would pose a threat to the entire international community, starting with the region. As our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, our soldiers who serve outside our borders are the pride of our country and of our nation. These troops represent a great country, a great nation, where they serve, with a long history, honor and heroism. Our military presence abroad is not an asset to the history of the people of that country. On the contrary, the Turkish soldier is a symbol of trust, brotherhood and peace in Afghanistan, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia, Lebanon. In every country he serves, he is a soldier whose people allied, embraced, opened his house, opened his heart. As our Prime Minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, stressed on every occasion, our country's foreign policy has become multidimensional and will continue to be multidimensional. It's a necessity of the geography we live in. It is impossible to say that only those who want to limit Turkey to Europe or Asia are aware of Turkey's geography, geopolitics, history, and the future. In the following period, we are determined to continue our goal of pursuing an active and decisive foreign policy in all the basins around Turkey, so that we can wave the moon-star flag with honor throughout the world. We will continue to work day and night with our Turkish Armed Forces, with our police, with our TİKA, with our Yunus Emre Cultural Centres and with all our resources. As I complete my words, I thank all our nation and nation who have ever represented and served in different countries and geography and who are still on duty, our Mehmet, our police, our government officials, and I thank them with mercy and gratitude for those who have lost their lives. With these feelings and thoughts, the Determination Support Mission, which is important for the peace and stability of Afghanistan, and for further deployment of Turkish Armed Forces abroad, and for the same purposes, I salute you all that we consider it appropriate for foreign armed forces to take part in the mission from our country to Afghanistan, as part of its return to Turkey.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0071par0493	Thank you, Mr. Konkar. On behalf of the government, National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0072par0497	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to explain the reason why Turkish Armed Forces elements will be allowed to be in Turkey as part of NATO's Determination Mission for Support and the continuation of NATO in Afghanistan and to participate in the same mission, which is for the same purposes. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I ask for God's mercy to the Adana MP Murat Bozlak, who we lost earlier this year, and my condolences and patience to his relatives and colleagues. And it's New Year's Eve. I wish this new year would bring peace, peace and prosperity both to our country and to our region. Mr. President, members of parliament, Turkey is surrounded by Balkans, Caucasus, Middle East and North Africa in a region where three continents meet. Because of this geopolitical position, our country has been at the center of events that have affected the world from this region for centuries and has played a significant role in the developments that have shaped history. Our country has long-standing historical, cultural and diplomatic relations with countries in different parts of the world with its long-standing past. The solidarity required by these relationships is still expected from our country. NATO membership is the key element of our country's international security and defence policy. NATO is also one of the key elements of our identity in foreign policy. The Alliance contributes to international confidence and stability in a number of tasks and operations, from Kosovo to Afghanistan, in an effort to ensure stability and peace in the Euro-Atlantic region and beyond. As it is known, one of the countries where we have historical ties and have close relationships is Afghanistan. The relationship between the two countries leading to the pre-declared period of the Republic also has meaning, as Afghanistan was one of the first countries to recognise the government of Ankara. Following the declaration of the Republic, a growing closeness of relationship, mutual respect, and friendship stemmed from its co-operation until today. Turkey has always supported the national unity, integrity and independence of Afghanistan, and has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas that ensure peace, stability and prosperity for the Afghan people as long as they demand it. In the past 35 years, the international Security Council has been formed as part of the Security Council resolutions issued by the United Nations Security Council for the country of Afghanistan, which has suffered major unrest. The goal of this force is to help the Afghan government improve the security situation in the country and create their own security capabilities. In 2003, the area of responsibility for this force was expanded beyond the UN Security Council Resolution 1510 and Kabul. The strategic command, control and co-motivation of the force was assumed by NATO. Many countries have also contributed staff to the Operation International Security Aid Force, including 28 members of NATO, as well as from Latin America to Oceania. About 50 countries worked together in Afghanistan for the establishment of peace and stability. One of these countries, the Republic of Turkey, was part of Operation ISAF from the very beginning, under the authority of the Grand National Assembly's 722th decision for Afghanistan, which it accepted as friends and brothers with the ties from history. Turkey has taken over the leadership of the entire operation twice, when the leadership of the operation was transformed by countries. After the operation was divided into regions, it was first transformed into eight-month periods with Italy and France, and since November 1st 2009, it has served as the Kabul Regional Command. Our country has given numerous trainings to the newly established Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police personnel, both in Afghanistan and Turkey's educational centres, on different levels and on different issues, and has contributed personnel to the NATO Education Mission in Afghanistan, and has established the Veteran Military Training Centre. Turkey has served in the Vardak province, one of which is close to Kabul, and the other in the Cevizcan province near the Cevizcan province in northern Afghanistan, where it has formed two regional construction teams that will benefit the Afghan people directly from watering, company, school, hospital construction, courses and educational activities. In this period, our support for development, particularly military, financial, and cultural, has been a separate part of the hearts of the people of Afghanistan. Our contributions were in harmony with our long-standing relations with Afghanistan, as well as our obligations stemming from Alliance solidarity and the North Atlantic Agreement. As a result of the progress observed in Afghanistan, the country's security responsibility was transferred to Afghan security forces from 2011 to 2014, starting with the most stable region. Afghan national security and defence forces have claimed security responsibility for all Afghanistan as of today. For this reason, Operation ISAF ended at the end of 2014, when the character and scope of the country's operation was changed. Mr. President, in Chicago, on May 20-21 2012, decisions made at the NATO State and Government Presidents Summits in Wales on 4-5 September 2014 agreed that another period of training for Afghan soldiers and police would contribute to the faster and requested level of military and police development, as well as the international community, which ensured that Afghans and their government are not alone in the process. The mission was launched on 1 January 2015, which will be led by NATO, called the Delegated Support Mission. As part of the mission, no combat activities will be carried out, two years of training, counselling and assistance for high-level units and headquarters. In the meantime, security responsibility across the country will be fully assumed by Afghan security forces. As with Operation ISAF, NATO countries, as well as non-NATO volunteer countries will participate in this new mission. Turkey has also planned to contribute to the new mission -- as in Operation ISAF -- to the Determinate Support Mission. In this scope, the Kabul Regional Command, which we have already been running since 2009, will hand over security responsibility to Afghan security forces and continue to be the frame country of the Kabul region. We will be responsible for co-ordination of other country activities in the Kabul region, as we will carry out our training, counselling and assistance activities. Our total staff in Afghanistan will be about 900 people within the framework of the mission. For the next two years, we have also claimed responsibility for the operation of the Kabul International Airport, the most important gate to the world of Afghanistan. As part of the mission to operate the Kabul International Airport, the staff of Azerbaijan, Albania and Macedonia will also serve under the command and command of the Turkish Armed Forces. In this scope, all expenses, including the salary of 90 Azerbaijan and 30 Albanian personnel, and the need for logistical support for 13 Macedonian personnel will be covered by our country. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have undoubtedly taken on a very important responsibility during the new period in Afghanistan. However, this responsibility is a responsibility Turkey will gladly accept for this country, which is considered a friend and a brother. It should not be forgotten that these and similar responsibilities that we assume demonstrate the importance of our country's international peace and protection among the leading members of the alliance, as well as Turkey's determination to preserve both military and political activities of the alliance. We believe that our country, which is running its largest foreign aid programme in Republic history in Afghanistan, is contributing to the action, creating a natural extension of our bilateral relations with Afghanistan and our foreign policy that we are monitoring in the region. Turkey, which has contributed from the very beginning to efforts for the establishment of peace and stability in Afghanistan, will continue to be with Afghan people as long as Afghans demand it, in the sense of friendship and brotherhood in the future. One of the speakers in question here would be more appropriate to support the development of Afghanistan than to provide security support for Afghanistan. He used the expression, which is exactly what Turkey is doing. Turkey has implemented more than 790 (such as education, health care, transport and agriculture). The number of students in Afghanistan was less than 1 million in 2002, while over 7 million in 2012, and 2.5 million of those 7 million were female students. Again, the length of the road was 21,000 kilometers in 2002, while in 2012 it increased to over 22,000 kilometres. Again, in 2002, one health centre for every 100,000 people falls to one health centre for 20,000 people today. Surely this distance along the road to development in Afghanistan is not enough, but where there is turmoil, it is impossible to talk about development, to talk about investment, to talk about development. For development to happen, for prosperity to happen, for distance to take place, there has to be peace within the country, peace, and stability. Here is one of the objectives of the Turkish Armed Forces' declaration on Afghanistan, which is to contribute to the establishment of stability in Afghanistan. In the event of stability, greater distances will be made faster and greater towards the country's development. Mr. President, with these considerations, the value of foreign armed forces will be deployed abroad, as part of the government's government, its border, its scope, and its time, as part of the government's recognition and recognition and detection of the Turkish Armed Forces, as part of NATO's Decisiond Support Mission in Afghanistan, and as part of its continuation, over Turkey's ongoing armed forces, for the same purposes; there will be a new thing that we are doing, and a new thing that will be made possible by many other countries through our country, in order to ensure that there be a high level of agreements in Turkey, in order to ensure that its access to Afghanistan and to the other areas of the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0073par0517	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of him, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0074par0521	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a personal pledge on the government's statement that the length of the Turkish Armed Forces' presence in Afghanistan will be extended for two years. One of the first decisions made by the Turkish Grand National Assembly was to open a diplomatic mission in Kabul. In fact, the first representative was Abdurrahman Sameman, an Afghan-based Turkish officer. So diplomatic relations began with the 1921 Turkish-Afganistan Alliance Convention, and the title of our embassy was issued by then Afghan King Emanullah Khan in 1945. The Afghans had great financial and spiritual support during the Salvation War, and after a great victory, the Afghans burned fires in the mountains, and performed great joys in the remotest parts of their country. Because of the great Turkish victory, Emanullah Khan is a holy night for all Afghanistan, even the entire Islamic world. We're celebrating their victory here. The Turks and Afghans are brothers; the joys of the Turks are our joys and our sorrows. I wish the Turks great success in their prayers. The Afghans, who won their independence in 1919, became the first Muslim countries to recognise the new Republic of Turkey. During the official beginning of Turkish-Afgan relations from 1921 to the Soviet occupation and influence, the Republic of Turkey sent teachers, military specialists and other experts to Afghanistan as well as mutual good intentions. The same good bilateral relations continue after the end of Soviet occupation in 1989. Turkey's Afghanistan policy aims to first protect the unity and unity of Afghans, to stop the blood flowing in the country to end terrorist activities of various groups in the country, and to bring Afghans to peace. I also offer a positive opinion and respect to all of you for this dissertation that will serve these purposes.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0075par0527	Thank you, Mr. Special. In the name of the person, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0076par0531	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The Turkish Armed Forces have been in office since the beginning of the operation in Afghanistan, which has been vested in the government by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on October 10, 2001. Now, Afghan national security forces are expected to take full responsibility for security throughout the country. Afghanistan and I have historical, long-standing brotherhood and friendship. Turkey has supported Afghanistan's national unity and independence. Our country also runs the largest foreign aid programme in the history of the republic in Afghanistan. Other than soldiers serving under NATO flags in Afghanistan, Turkish soldiers walking the streets of Afghanistan, there are no more soldiers. Meanwhile, Afghanistan and Gazi want to talk about memories of Mustafa Kemal. I want to stop talking. We have lost the battle of Kütahiah-Eskişehir, and our army has retreated to the east of Sakaryah River. At a time when we need a soldier, an er, a bullet, Gazi Mustafa Kemal instructs Fevzi Pasha, saying: "Pasha, choose 20 of your most distinguished officers." No, we will send our 20 most distinguished officers to Afghanistan to train the Afghan army against the British. I want to get from here to here, where the Afghan people have given the Turkish nation the necessary financial, spiritual support and help in our Battle of Salvation. Again, Fahrettin Pasha, an aide in Medina, you know, defended Medina, and confirmed here by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first Kabul ambassador to Afghanistan, who had a serious activity in the Islamic community, who appointed ambassadors to Afghanistan as exceptional delegates, who supported the Afghan government against the British. Our friends and our Minister have spoken about the thesis. I too wish to share this memory and ask the General Assembly to vote for the admission of the thesis, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0077par0539	Thank you, Mr. Can. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under UN Security Council decisions 1368 (2001), 1373 (2001) and 1386 (2001) and the results of the 5 December 2001 Bonn Conference, the strategic command, control and co-operation of the government of Afghanistan was adopted by NATO in 2001 to help develop its own security capabilities; its responsibility in 2003 was expanded beyond Kabul by the UN Security Council's decision 1510 (2003). The Turkish Armed Forces have been in Afghanistan since the beginning of Operation ISAF (ISAF) on the basis of the power vested in the government by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on October 10, 2001, and on the basis of decision 722. Operation ISAF, which is under NATO leadership, will be completed by the end of 2014. After that, the Determinate Support Mission will form one of the key elements of NATO's relations with Afghanistan. As part of decisions made in Chicago on May 20-21 and on September 4, 2014 in Wales at the Summits of NATO State and Governments, it is intended that the Decisionary Support Mission, which was envisioned to be launched on 1 January 2015, would not have an effective quality and be carried out for two years in order to provide training, advice and assistance for Afghan national security forces throughout the country. Turkey, which has long-standing brotherhood and friendship relations with Afghanistan, has always supported Afghanistan's national unity, integrity and independence, and has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas, providing the Afghan people to live in peace, stability and prosperity. The country, which is running the largest foreign aid programme in the history of the Republic, is considered to be a natural extension of our bilateral relations with Afghanistan and our active foreign policy in the region. With this approach, the move, the border, the amount, the amount, and the amount, and the amount of time that should be recognised by the government, the Turkish Armed Forces will be carried out in Afghanistan, the Determinated Support Mission for NATO and its continuation, and the request for permission of foreign armed forces to be granted two years in accordance with the government's mandate to participate in the mission, which is for the same purposes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now there's a direct motion to be brought up in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I'm going to read and process, and then I'm going to vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1674) I respectfully ask that my main Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu is the owner of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0078par0561	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, my dear friend who died the day before, my colleague, Adana MP Murat Bozlak, who devoted his life to the struggle for democracy, freedom and justice, I ask God's mercy, and to his relatives, family, friends, and HDP community, I offer my condolences and my patience. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to bring up our proposal for freedom of expression (2/1674). I salute you all. Dear friends, Turkey has two reputations: one, that reputation has palaces, thousands of rooms, fancy and pretend cavalry, turquoise and red carpets, billion-dollar vehicles being pulled under the president of the Dianet Works; and Turkey has an issue of disrepute in the face of the world. It was said today that Turkey was the leading media freedom, leading the freedom of expression. A Dutch journalist was detained in Diyarbakır just as these talks were being held. Dear friends, I want you to take good care of this painting. In terms of the democracy index, Turkey is the 89th valued friends among 167 countries as of 2014. That's where you brought Turkey in 12 years. Precious friends in terms of civil liberties, Turkey is the 132th between 167 countries as of 2014. In addition, among the 180 countries we talked about freedom of expression, Turkey is the 154th valued friends, the 154th. In terms of freedom of the press, Turkey is one hundred and thirty-seven degrees from 197 countries. For the first time this year, the country that has been partially free has moved from its status to the status of non-free countries. Turkey went back six points last year in terms of internet freedom. At the risk of human rights violations, Turkey is the 78th in the world average and one of the three countries that went to the worst situation last year, two other countries Ukraine and Thailand are valued friends. Of course, I've had a lot of these conversations from the bench, I've talked to the AKP Group, I've talked to the wall, you've really shown no sensitivity. Look, dear friends, Amnesty International issued a report on freedom of expression in Turkey a year ago called "The Right Time of Freedom of expression" and we turned this report into a law proposal last year, and we're talking about it now. If you really favour the deepening of democracy in Turkey, freedoms, the 215th article of the Penal Code, the 220th article of Article (6) and (8) joke of Article (8), Article 218, Article 285, Article 288, Article 288, Article 301, and Article 318, must be reorganised, if you favor freedom of expression. Of course, we don't expect you to side with us because you're the ones who picked up 16-year-old Mehmet Emin Altunses, and sent him to prison at Konya, and you're the ones who took Sedef Kavash out of his house because he threw him out. But remember, folks, we've seen a lot of these times, it'll turn around, and one day you'll need democracy and freedom of expression, and then you won't find anyone with you, but in the most difficult of times, you'll find us, and we'll defend your freedom of expression. So before then, come - once again I call upon you - do one right thing today, raise your hand here for the release of this package in terms of freedom of expression. If your hand is in your pocket, I don't expect anything from you, but if your hand is on your conscience, tell them yes. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0079par0575	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Manisa MP Free Special... Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0080par0579	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're here with an offer that should be brought directly to the agenda, as it has been referred to the commission under Article 37 of the Civil Code and has not been evaluated in the appropriate period of time. First of all, we look forward to the death of our Adana MP Murat Bozlak. And our condolences to your group and to your loved ones. Our offer of the law is for freedom of expression. The limits of freedom of expression in Turkey are particularly vague and vague in the Penal Code; the ruling party's own threat, impact, perception of conspiracy or the way it measures its own fear. At times, the scope of an issue, which has been expanded by the ruling party, with judicial packages the other day, is also narrowed down. In our proposal for the law, we propose that some of the relevant substances in the highly problematic, undiagnosed Turkish Penal Code be changed, some of which have been made clear, and some of which have been completely removed from force. The main course of action of our proposal is the amendment to relevant law clauses based on the criticism of Amnesty International and its findings in its reports to Turkey. For example, the 318th article of the TCK (TCK) is interpreted as very flexible, not to alienate the people from military service -- not to be understood from here as we advocate mandatory military service. On the other hand, there is no such thing in a country where the Prime Minister says, "There is no such thing as getting off the plane at the airport," where he tells himself, "There is no such thing as a military presence at the entrance of the Prime Minister's residence." Who is freezing whom out of military service? This behavior puts the military on the ice between them and those who are close. That's what's measured in the field. No one's punishment for this is incompatible with conscience. The point of praising the crime and the criminal is probably what lawmakers from the ruling party have been doing most recently. Last year's corruption, which was published in sheets, nonresponsive, put parallels into place. During a period where money is demanded with interest, it is not possible for us to accept the guilt and to praise the crime in TCK 215. There's a matter of punishing him like he's part of a terrorist organization without being proven to be a member of a terrorist organization. When we go to prison as a member of the Prison Commission, especially when students, young people, under 18 years of age, the issue we see in juvenile prisoners or prisoners is to punish them as if they were a member of a terrorist organization that was not connected to it, but without a connection to it. It's a huge injustice made by the ruling party, which is the only one in Turkey. Of course, who does that involve? It comes to a point where, together with this paragraph, it is to participate in the statement of algebra, violence, threats to the press and press statements of terrorist organisations -- a broad comment from the students during the Prime Minister's visit to ODTÜ to those who attended the press conference on 8 March World Women's Day. In Izmir, the boy who comes and goes to an inn and goes out the door, and the police camera that follows him reports: "They are having an affair with the side of the building, and there is an organizational document in his hand, sometimes shaped like a roll. There is an organizational document in his hand by which he says he has a common bathroom, and paper in his hand is toilet paper but an organizational document in the form of a roll. At least the students enter indictments. As for the principle of secrecy of the investigation, from the cases you now call the military espionage cases to the cases you call the plan to which you call the conspiracy, are we going to hide the secrecy of the investigation? You were yelling, "Are we going to keep what Allah knows?" Or are you calling each other out of there, while we're expressing the purity of innocence, you're saying, "They're not going to smoke, they're the coupgers." You're saying, "We're going to congratulate you when you accuse eight members of the three parties of the terror organization when you come to the Assembly, and you're going to invite each other to be a member of an organization." We expect you to vote that way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit01spe0081par0589	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a break until 6:30.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. İstanbul MP Aydın Ayan Ayyadın and 56 MPs who took part in the 1st part of this part, Ankara 18 on the cancellation of the Level Determination Exam in 2013. We are starting talks on the opening of a parliamentary inquiry into National Education Minister Nabi Avcı (9/11) under the 100th and 107th Articles of the Constitution, on the charge that his action was not carried out by the Executive Court and that its action was in accordance with the abuse of the Turkish Penal Code on Article 257. The meeting will be promised, respectively, to the first signator or to another signator, three members on behalf of his people, and, finally, National Education Minister Nabi Avcı (Secur) who has been asked to be investigated. They've been talking for ten minutes. The parliamentary inquiry motion was read and published in the 18th Union of the General Assembly, dated 25/11/2014. That's why I'm not re-reading the motion for investigation. I read the names of the MPs who have been taken: İstanbul MP Aydın Aghadın; Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of the people; Kütahya MP Alim Ilm on behalf of Kütahya MP Yüksel Özden; Minister Eskişehir MP Nabi Aşcı on demand to be investigated. I now request that İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayaydın be put on the stand. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0082par0014	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education, who has not carried out his ruling, under the 100th Amendment of the Constitution, the 107th Amendment of the Civil Code. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin, I would like to express my condolences to the HDP Group and to the family that I am deeply sorry to have lost Mr Murat Bozlak. Mr. Nabi Avcı, Minister of National Education, has caused the country a scandal over scandal in every test he's ever taken because he's sat in its seat, has unfairly suffered millions of students and student parents. No test has ever been without scandal, Mr. Nabi during the Hunter period. On 8 June 2013, the results of the Level Determination Test, which was attended by 1,111,000 students, were announced by the National Ministry of Education on 12 July 2013, and immediately after the announcement, the French and German textbooks were measured with an English answer key. And on the very same day, Mr. Secretary Avcı, I wanted to telephone and ask him to correct this mistake, but the Minister didn't feel the need to answer our calls as if he had never been reached, the national will, the same national will that sat him there, and that I had the right to ask him this question here, and that I had the right to ask him that question, and that he would never answer. On 13 July 2013, I gave Minister Nabi Avcı (Mr. Nabi Avcı) a motion to ask him about this matter. He didn't answer the motion, he didn't stoop. So I filed a motion by Ankara's Executive Court to halt the execution, and after I filed this case, it was decided that the prosecution should be stopped in this case, which I have filed against the Ankara Administration Court concerning the cancellation of the executive court. So the National Ministry of Education has decided that the Level Determination Exam results are not legal, that they are wrong and that they should be stopped. But Mr. Secretary immediately appeared in front of the televisions, and let no one worry that he will not be a victim, and we will fix it. He said, "But he didn't." The Ministry of National Education has kept its response to the administrative judiciary until its final day and has objected on the last day. What does Nabi Hunter say after protesting? ▪ As a minister, we object to an upper court. Make our children comfortable, make their families comfortable. Let not our teachers and their parents be concerned; there will be no loss of rights for any of our children, and we have done what is necessary. 718 students have miscalculations on their paper, miscalculations. If you're changing them, there will be a change in the ranking of 1,11,000 students. He's ignoring it, and he's not implementing the executive decision. He objected to the decision that we had received to stop this execution, and 18. The Supreme Court rejected this objection from the Ministry of National Education, and decided that we were right. And finally, on March 31, 2013, Ankara 18. The Supreme Court has made its major decision. In the main decision, the ranking in the evaluation of the National Ministry of Education's Determination results is against the law, that it is wrong... And he canceled it. Now, this is a judgment decision, a decisive verdict. There's only one procedure against which the Ministry of National Education will carry out this decision, but Mr. Minister of Education doesn't know the decision, doesn't know the law, doesn't know the law, doesn't know the law; I am Nabi Avcı, Minister of National Education, I do what I want. I don't know the law in Turkey. He says, "I don't know the law." And he didn't do it, he didn't do it. There's no statement from the Minister after the verdict, there's a corporate statement, the Ministry of National Education is making a statement. What does the Ministry of National Education say? The Ministry of National Education has made this statement, saying: "There is no new process to be done about the SBS. Following the decision to stop the execution of the SBS on March 31st, the procedures were taken. • This is not true, you did not make those procedures, Mr. Secretary. The results of 718 students have changed, you need to change the ranking of 1,11,000 students. You didn't do it, you abused your mission. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the same way, the Undersecretary makes a statement, the Undersecretary of the Ministry says: "We will not victimize anyone." So, this decision has not been implemented, and what is this, not to victimize 1,11,000 students? You're fooling people. You were just giving information and documents to your group's deputy, and you're saying, "We did what we had to do." You didn't do what you had to do, the administrative court decided, and you didn't do it. Since you have not carried out this decision, you have committed the abuse of office in Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code, and you must go to the Supreme Court and be tried. I'm here today to address my fellow AKP MP friends. Since he sat in this chair, Mr. Secretary has not taken a proper exam, he has never moved to trial, they've all moved to trial, and there's been a comeback from all of them. I know there are friends of yours who will do this very well, but there is only one person who can't sit here, and that is Mr. Nabi Avcı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, about the TEOG exams. SBS got up, replaced it with TEOG, changed the name, then changed the name. This time again, the TEOG took the wrong test. I filed a question motion again, and he didn't answer the question motion again. I petitioned according to the Information Act, and he did not answer my petition. I have filed a criminal complaint with Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office has requested permission from the Ministry of National Education to press charges against those responsible, and the Ministry of National Education has not allowed it. Look what it says in the article that he sent me, because he said, "You applied according to the Information Act, and we took it into our records, but we couldn't find the attachments, the petition in the petition. And since we can't find it, we're not allowed to investigate it. (A National Ministry of Education should not sit there for a minute if he is losing a petition under the Information Act.) (HPP) His sitting there is an insult to the Republic of Turkey, an insult to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. During the Minister's Ministry, all exams were scandalized, so he shouldn't be sitting there. I'd like to remind the Minister of a quartet of Serdar Median, and I want him to listen to this in particular: ▪ No one is a sultan in this day and age, He's not a ruler, he's not a tyrant, Don't be so confident, No one is king, no one is king. Mr. Nabi Avcı, you are no king, and you will answer here, and if not today, you will one day be tried on the Supreme Court, and you will answer for the failure of this law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0083par0031	Thank you, Mr. Aya morning. Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0084par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party regarding the motion to investigate the parliamentary inquiry on Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education. I salute the General Assembly. And before I speak, I wish 2015 to bring peace and freedom to all mankind, and I salute you all again. The National Ministry of Education announced the results of the Level Determination Exam for the 8th graders in 2013 and later filed lawsuits against Ankara 18. The Supreme Court ruled that the results of the examination should be stopped because there was no legal fitness. Later, on March 4, 2014, the same court ruled that the results of the exams would be annulled, but the Ministry of National Education ignored these decisions and ignored their judicial decisions. For this reason, our Republican People's Party friends have applied to the Parliamentary Presidency to open a parliamentary investigation, which is one of Parliament's control mechanisms and is also known for the 100th Article of the Constitution. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course we have to go back and again to emphasize the importance of the principle of separation of forces, which are essential to parliamentary democracies, once the matter is examined. The court ruled that this test was irregular and therefore that its results were invalid. However, the Ministry of National Education, which is a senior executive, did not recognise the decision. There is no right to run in countries with separate forces, but the Ministry of National Education has the right not to recognise judicial decisions. Dear lawmakers, the motion to investigate will likely be rejected by majority votes of the ruling party, and a motion to oversee the execution will be rejected at the Assembly General Assembly. Question proposals, research motions and investigation motions are developed mechanisms to ensure control, but as we all know, almost no mechanism is running, almost no mechanism is running to be supervised under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. No motion for investigation or investigation given by opposition parties is accepted. Most of the questions we offer are not answered, and the answers are prepared in as superficial a way as possible. So one of the basic problems we face is that power is not subject to control, it's not transparent, it's not open to accountability. With this mechanism, all sorts of irregularities are paid in bonuses. Dear lawmakers, if we return to the level-discrimination examination on the inquiry motion, these tests are a test that determines the fate of millions of elementary students and children's entire education and academic lives as criteria for their transition to secondary education, so the results may affect our children's work life. Of course, none of the central trials, which are a reflection of centrist mentalitys in Turkey, where there is an inequality of both economic, geographical and cultural and religious opportunity among citizens, are unacceptable. Because these central trials deepen the inequality of opportunity and ignore any freedom of our children. In this way, he is behind the age, contradicting modern pedagogic principles. Mr. President, when Turkey's educational system is evaluated by measures such as its current structure, predictions, short and long-term goals, applications, textbooks, the look of the child and the individual, it already has legislation and practices far behind the modern world. It is not expected from the Ministry of National Education to raise successful, hardworking, free and happy individuals in this way, because such infrastructure does not exist. Any central test by the Ministry of National Education, which has been carried out with great conviction and determination, continues to be a subject of a new scandal. One of the scandals is the constant theft of test questions. Last week, when Mr. President was Prime Minister, they made it clear that the questions had been stolen during the central exams. Just the matter of these questions being stolen is proof of the injustice, favorant that the Ministry of National Education is involved in, that children are so open to working mechanisms that allow young people to play with their futures, that children's futures, that parents' efforts are so worthless. In addition to irregularities such as questions being stolen during exams called TEOG by the National Ministry of Education later on, there have been irregularities in the framework of lessons and scores computational methods, which have been included in these trials, and continue to happen. One of the most important of these irregularities is the mandatory religion lesson and the introduction of this class into TEOG exams. As determined by the Ministry of National Education, the courses for central testing are Turkish, science and technology, mathematics, English history, foreign language, religious culture and ethics. These lessons are not determined by what scientific criteria and pedagogic needs. It is unacceptable for such a challenging approach to be carried out regardless of the students' religious beliefs, sects, or worldview. Dear lawmakers, when the Ministry of National Education reviews the guidelines for this test, the rights of students who study in minority schools and students who are exempt from formal public schools and are exempt from religious schools have been blocked in equal opportunities, short and long-term rights losses have been opened, and they have been subjected to damages. According to students who study at minority schools and students who study in formal public schools who are exempt from religion classes, test scores are clearly at a disadvantage, while the Ministry of National Education has made no official statement or correction to the situation. There have been no responses from the Ministry to the two questions I personally submitted on the matter, and no extenuating regulations have been made so far. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are deepening discrimination practices for students, such as central exams do not take into account the original student structures and segregation attitudes conducted in the content and applications of exams and also the theft of test questions and the sale of them. All units of the Ministry of National Education that are effective in the decision-making process, particularly Mr. Nabi Avcı, are responsible for psychosocial traumas that allow negative discrimination towards students to develop in these children's students, depending on their feelings of insecurity. The Ministry of National Education must immediately stop implementing bureaucratic, political and practical practices that have systematically led to inequal results for students during exams that will affect the careers of our students. Dear MPs, the education system in Turkey is known to have become literally test-centered from elementary school to university. After college life, the practices that our young people were forced to do under the KPSS and almost tortured are known to all of us and all of our people. Instead of supporting children's mental, social and physical development and improving their children's abilities, the Turkish education system compels millions of students to take central exams every year. With the increase of central exams, special courses, courses, and so on have increased, resulting in serious setbacks in teacher, student and guardian relations. The incentive of private schools and special courses by the Ministry also poses serious economic burdens on families. The stress and other problems the students face as they prepare for the examination are causing many students and student parents to experience psychological pressure. Dear lawmakers, in this framework, I support the motion of an investigation by the Ministry of National Education and the General Assembly on the grounds that by acting contrary to the requirements of the Minister's duties as a representative of the Ministry of Education and the ministry in the first degree as a executive body and as an executive office, our children will allow a number of people to have unfair interests, in order to be harmed by our youth and by the harm of the public.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0085par0048	Thank you, Mr. Erol Dora. Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0086par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the esteemed MPs, Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Aydın Aghan Ayadın and his friends to investigate. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to share with you the final joke of the article on the Constitution, Article 138, which is why this motion, given that the SBS results have not been implemented, and why this motion has a criminal element. The final joke of the Constitution's Article 138 is that the administration and the executive body must comply with the court's decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot, in any way, change the court's decisions and delay the implementation of them. Despite the decree of the chief, the executives before me have stated, the execution must be halted. Although the ruling of the Supreme Court was later approved, unfortunately the law was ignored, it was not carried out by the Ministry of National Education. Therefore, according to the Constitution's ruling, Mr. Minister of National Education and Ministry bureaucrats have committed constitutional crimes. Of course, Mr. Minister of National Education is responsible for this crime, and the obligation to stand trial on the Supreme Court is bound to come sooner or later. Therefore, the motion for a parliamentary investigation is a valid motion. I'd like to renegotiate that idea. However, for the past two semesters, the Supreme Assembly has been given a motion to investigate various issues, but it has been decided that the commission to investigate only one issue will be established. As you all know very well, December 17th-25 is the Commission for investigating corruption and bribery operations, but unfortunately, this Commission has finally passed through Parliament history on January 5, 2015, after long-term studies, debates, and studies. But when it's clear, I believe, of course, that people will pass their peace without questioning, that those who vote and use it will eventually, sooner or later, weigh it in their own conscience. Dear lawmakers, in a speech of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on March 3, 2014, following the 17-25 December operations, which Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a speech in Muğla. We are here for mercy, not for wrath, but for our own mercy. After a speech with his words, I would also like to say that it is not a coincidence that the esteemed MPs in this commission finally made a decision on December 22nd to clear on January 5th, after the 15 days of rehabilitation and persuasion yesterday. Therefore, the outcome of this motion of inquiry is clear. It will be decided not to open with the majority of votes, and even if there is a secret vote based on their consciences, we will not allow our minister to eat the great voice of anger, the great voice of mercy. From the moment he gives his message, the valued MPs will make the same decision on this matter as they did yesterday, no one will doubt it, and that is the expectation. Let's go, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister said we'd cut off his arm no matter who was corrupt. But as of yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister will be a man of history as a one-armed prime minister with his arm cut off, and he will surely pass on the history books to future generations. Dear MPs, it's a crime, it's a violation of the Constitution, it's an inadmissible verb, there's no other way to explain it, Mr. Secretary, it has to be accounted for. After the examination results were announced on 8 June 2013 on 12 July 2013, the issue was moved to the judiciary because 718 students' German and French test results were mixed up with English test results and the answer key results would change the subject's results, so Ankara 18. On January 10, 2014, the Supreme Court unanimously justified the objection and decided that the results of the examinations should be changed and that the test results would be revoked. In response to the decision to stop this execution, the opposition by the Ministry of National Education was rejected on 31 March 2014, so the test showed that the results of the test, due to false coding, would affect 1,11,000 students and would therefore be cancelled or reconsidered. But instead of doing what is necessary, Mr. Ministry has said, ignoring the millions who have already taken the exam, ignoring their families, that no one will be a victim, that no one will be a victim, that the necessary things will be done. Millions of students couldn't go to the school that they missed because they were going to change their rankings, and maybe if they had been redesigned, and if the results had been reconsidered, they would have been able to enroll them in a better school, so all the students were victims. Therefore, the work and the action are against the law, the crime, the High Assembly must do it. So, just these? On the matter of the Minister's trial, Ankara 13th, due to the failure of 4 problems in the 1st term TEOG exams held on 28-29 November 2013, Despite the ruling court's decision to halt the execution of July 1, 2014, and after that, it remained a mystery of how the outcome of the TEOG was evaluated. In addition, a double copy story appeared on the 2nd term TEOG exams held on 28-29 April 2014. Hundreds of thousands of students have been victimized. The National Ministry of Education has made a statement regarding the correction of the errors in the 2nd TEOG exams after the appeals and extracurricular talks of July 8, 2014, but not all the victims of the students who took the test have been eliminated again. There's been trouble here, too. On the other hand, in the Minister's day, the law was broken, and the appointment of 1,709 branch managers was still not carried out, despite the decision to appoint 1,709 branch managers, was brought here in the form of a change of law, and an attempt was made to reassign the law using the Parliament to bring the same people into office. Fortunately, on behalf of the government, after the health minister of that day listened to the objections to this issue, this has been withdrawn, and the issue has now been dismissed. In addition, during Mr. Minister's time, thousands of principals, assistant managers, who had been removed overnight, were appointed by the yellow union, all of which, unfortunately, were not good grades on Mr. Minister's report card as examples of unlawful conduct. So he says we're in favor of the motion, and I'm giving you my final word of respect again, saying that the motion for investigation is necessary to be processed.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0087par0064	Thank you, Mr. Light. Muğla MP Yüksel Özden. Here you go, Mr. Özden.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0088par0068	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı. I hereby salute your high council. Starting with my words, at this first session of 2015, I hope that this year will bring health, peace, happiness to all of us, to our country, to humanity, and that our House will have more peaceful, healthier, more productive meetings. I also wish God's mercy to our late MP, his family, his loved ones, and his relatives. Now, I would like to say once again what we've been talking about for about 40 minutes: Yes, the SBS exam in 2013 accidentally used the English answer key as the key to French and German response. This concerns 718 students in the first place. On the day the test results were announced, on July 12, 2013, the administration noticed this and made the necessary arrangements immediately. The number of students who will be affected when you are 718 students, essentially when you make the exam controversial, and when you try to create a bit of uncertainty, has just been said, 1,11,000 people. Now, let's sort things out one by one: yes, there is a mistake, and let's look at the conduct of the administration. The administration did it on the spot. He rearranged 718 students' scores, but there's a valid objection: Now, when 718 students change their scores, the remaining 1,11,000 students will also change their scores. Especially since the scores are standardized, there will be a change here. The ministry also does this study because it's very easy to do, it's only a matter of time, something you can pull out when you press the button, and when this is done, the ministry assesses the students' scores one or two digits in their third digits after commas. What's going on? A student's score is 372,126, which is 372,129, yes, it is. When someone else's is 361,534, I'm saying 539 -- after the comma -- it goes up to 410,545 410,547. It's also being calculated what such a change can lead to, and, yes, as you say, our minister says over and over again, "Be reasonable, no one will be a victim, no one will be confused, and the parents will never doubt, because we will operate this system and this wheel will turn." We do not want our students to feel this anxiety again, and we will not allow it. Now, on the one hand, in the behavior that we're dealing with here, it's the behavior of the administration. There's clarity here, there's transparency, there's accountability here, there's thinking about 1,11,000 students, her mother, her father, and the students who were going to be affected by this system.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0089par0073	The student who was supposed to go to science school couldn't go. How many are there?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0088par0074	Our friends often say, "Sir, every test has turned into chaos, every test system has passed through such events." Yes, now, let's see, there's something here, there are people who want to turn every test into chaos, that's for sure. Let's take a look at this together. I mean, we're talking about these kids here, but let's look at these kids' behavior first. Who's acting? Children have behavior, management has behavior, justice has behavior and politics has behavior. Consider the behavior of the students. A total of 103 students have been found to go to school with higher scores than 99 after the recent amendments were made by the court -- 1,11,000 students -- have changed their score. Even if it's a court order to reverse action against these children here, it's no longer something to do with anyone. It's been determined that for four students, he can go to a higher school. Now, let's see, student behavior is very meaningful, it's said to these four students, that you can go to this school with your new score, and you can go to this school with a new score. In one night, in one day, in one week, the court decides on the subject of 1,11,000 students in July, August, September, October, November, December, January 10th. Now, I've put in student behavior, and here's the court's behavior. It's the middle of the year, what do you do after that? Which the Ministry is doing again. What's he taking out? It says: these will be these. And they are made. On the other hand, as far as politics is concerned, it's been a year and a half. These kids are into college now. Let us not disturb you. Let's just leave the kids alone, show them that they're happy in their school, and while we're talking about it on kids... is that all the students that say, "I got used to my school, I got used to it, I got used to it, I got used to it, I got used to it, I got used to it, I got used to it?" You're saying that every test system... yes, Turkey is a big country, and the students taking the test in Turkey are far more than the population of many European countries. For him, each time we do it meticulously, yes, sometimes when obstacles arise, it is necessary and the test is changed. Now you're saying: You don't think about children. My fellow MPs, we've all said that there's nothing wrong with talking about an education system over a test. We don't talk about children's gains, individualities, socialities, their own personal development; we're just talking about the test. Here's what our Ministry is trying to change: let's take this test from being a test like this, that happens once a year, that happens twice a year, and that everybody has no alibi exams, so let's take it out on the kids, and it says, let's get the TEOG. You're saying that students are so victimized, teachers so much. Let me share with you the results of the work done at the end of the first term. First, look, the most important question is the TEOG exam, the views on putting school and teachers first. Here we have 1.526 teachers' opinions, and the first practice, the first term, after one period of practice, 57 percent of our teachers say: ▪Stuation, school, and teachers have taken the lead. That's enough for us. If our teachers say that school and teachers are taking the lead in Turkey today, that's enough to make us proud. Not only that, but again, our teachers say that teachers of the TEOG exam have more discipline in the pursuit of the curriculum. Our teachers are singing. How much? Gene says about 55 percent says: "Now, discipline has come to follow the curriculum. Third: We ask our teachers what they think, and they say that about 58.32 percent of the time, the attendance of the school has been provided with the E.T.E.O.G. exam. We are concerned about it, and we want the test to stop being a stress ingredient when we look ahead at the children of this country. We also asked our students, 50 per cent of our students, who have been taught in the course by the E.T.E.O.G. exam. This is a painting for an educator and for a member of the ruling party, which I will always be proud of. Just after that, the school was given continuity. It says 60 percent of our teachers and students. Yeah, maybe there's a lot more to say, but that's the painting. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I present to you that the motion to investigate our Minister is really unnecessary, that our opinion is against this investigation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0090par0086	Thank you, Mr. Özden. The final statement belongs to Mr. Nabi Avcı, Minister of National Education, who has been asked to be investigated. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish first that 2015 would be a blessing for all of us, for our nation, for our country. I ask for God's mercy to Mr Murat Bozlak, my condolences to his family, his friends. Now, our friend, who was just speaking, explained the essence of the work very, very briefly, but for the first time, we've talked about what the real situation is, what the SBS is, what the error was in the process, what the measure of this administration is, what the arrangement is. And that's what we've been talking about in the recent budget talks, and we've been briefed there. Mr. Yüksel just sums it up very well, but thinking that it's still not understood, that it might not be understood, that it's going to be understood, that it's going to insist on not understanding what's going on, what's really going on, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on in the record, what's going on? You know, SBS was a once-a-year test, and we were all complaining about it, turning our children into racehorses, and with one test, the children's four-year, even longer-term education lives are being determined. We changed that, but in the last SBS exam before we changed it... the SBS exam, the Leveling Exam, it's not right for him to say "SBS" exam, because it's the last one. The level-determination exam is held in the 8th grade. On Saturday, June 8, 2013, we took this test, and we announced the results on July 12, 2013, and we announced the results a month later. The day the results were announced, we realized there was a grave mistake. He saw the answer key to French and German questions mixed with the English key, and on the same day, it was 17 p.m. that evening. By apologizing to the public and our students at 00, we have declared that we have made this mistake, that we have provided the reading of German and French questions with their own keys, and that we have explained the results in this way. There's something wrong with us here, and we realized it right away, the day the test was announced, the day the results were announced, and we corrected it. 718 students, 718 students in this situation. With the second assessment of these, how did we do this procedure? According to Article 8, entitled Evaluation of Examination Results, we have made this correction according to Article 8 of the Student Placement Direction. So, we made this correction, so how were the students affected? As a result of this assessment, the standard deviation from the correct reading is not in him, not in the percentage, but at 3 in a thousand. As a result of the calculation based on the newly calculated standard deviation, there is no change in the test average, which is 4.8. So we said that the results of the 718 candidates and 1,11,000 candidates will not change dramatically as a result of their reevaluation. However, Mr. Ayadin and a student have filed a lawsuit against a parent-management court regarding the cancellation of the exam. The trial of Mr. Ayadun was denied due to unauthorizedness.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0092par0094	Driver's license...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0093par0095	No, the execution has been decided to be stopped.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0096	Here's the bottom line.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0093par0097	And don't talk the way you want to.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0098	Ankara 18. On 31/3/2014...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0093par0099	Before that...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0100	Mr. Ayadin has decided to reject the trial of Mr. Ayadin. When was the case filed on behalf of the student? It was opened on 31 July 2013. It's past July, past the trial, past August, past the trial, past the court, past the court, past the October, past the November, past the December, past the range, we've come to the 10 percent of the stove, so it's one semester over, and it's five days later, it's time for students to get a report card and 1.11,000 students to 1.11,000 students. The Supreme Court decided on 10 January 2014 to stop the execution. And that day I said, "Don't worry, no student will be a victim, no one will bother 1,11,000 students and their families. We've already seen that when we're doing the 718 students, we've already seen that there's no situation that can cause dramatic changes in terms of students and guardians. We've already said that we're going to do what needs to be done at that time, and we've decided that even though the court has decided to stop running it, even though the court hasn't actually read the papers yet, that if the court decides on the basis, what we need to do is to do with the worst scenario, because we know from our calculations that the results won't change very dramaticly, and therefore we know that there won't be any changes from our calculations, and so we've done this process before the court has decided to stop the process, so we've already read the papers, so we've already done it've done it again, and we've already decided that if the court has already decided, whatever it's been decided on us, we can't stop. What was the result? So it turns out that 99 students can go to a school with a lower or lower score, but we said, "We're not going to victimize any students, those 99 of our students will continue to study in schools where they live, they can, they can, they did. Four students of 1 million,11,000 students, if they want to go to a different school, according to the new calculation, have been able to go to a different school in that thousand, and they have been sent as a single Ministry of National Education, and we've even assigned our chiefs of education, and we've said, "Look, according to your new computation, this is your score, if you want to go to these schools with this score. None of these four students have changed their existing schools, of their own free will, four students. We're talking about 1,11,000 students. We've looked at 1,11,000 students and their parents in the administration, and we've done it, and we've looked at what it's like to do what's right, what's fair, what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right. I say this with great peace of mind. As a result of any calculations, these 1,11,000 students could change the situation, except for these 4 students, and even the case of the student who opened the court, Mr. Ayaydun, who, according to the budget, opened the case under his own direction, has not changed. So there's been no change in our student who's applied to the court, as a result of the new calculations, that would give his score a choice for another school, that's not a victim, that's not a victim, that's not a victim. So what we did -- wrongly -- maybe this is that we did what he was going to ask us to do before he waited for the final verdict of the court, when the decision was made to stop the execution. So the reason we're being accused of not implementing the court's ruling now is because we applied the court's decision early. We've anticipated the court's decision, and according to him, we've taken precautions, which we've made public. So, there's no mistake here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me a moment?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0094par0105	I'll give you one more minute to greet. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0107	But it was a good opportunity to explain again. Mr. Ayadin says he called me to warn me the day the test results were announced. We may have made a mistake with the Chief of Staff. I don't know about this phone, I didn't get it, I'd go back, I wouldn't, I really didn't. If I'd known it would cause such a severe psychological reaction, I would have called later, but I really didn't know about it, and I want you to know that. Now, a quick note of information about branch managers regarding what Alim Bey had said quickly: Yes, there are cases involving 1,709 branch managers that are going on and on about these appointments. Of the 284 cases that have been filed so far, the decision to dismiss the 136 cases has been ruled against, in favour of the Ministry, 136/ reject of 284 cases; the decision has been made to dismiss the case has been made, the decision has been made to stop the execution of 29/u, and the decision has been made to cancel 30/u. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, in favour of our Ministry of 138, it is against our Ministry of 59. We've done what's against our ministry. So, stop it from being against us from the courts. We've stopped what he said, cancel what he said. There's nothing wrong with court decisions there, Mr. Alim.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0095par0112	You're following the decision of the yellow union, Mr. Secretary, the yellow union!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0113	Also, in connection with this cross-replicator case, the same apartment of the State Department, 8. On the same issue, there are two decisions that his apartment has made that are 180 degrees contrary to what counts as a cross copy or what doesn't count?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0096par0114	Yeah, I guess I gave it another minute.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0091par0115	Yeah, unfortunately, it's not enough time. Thank you very much. I give you all my regards, and I wish you a happy New Year.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0097par0119	Thank you, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0098par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0097par0121	Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0098par0122	He also mentioned my name in his speech, saying that the case I filed resulted in unauthorized action. That's not true, I want to fix it.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0097par0123	Unauthorized...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0098par0124	The case that I'm suing is unauthorized...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0099par0125	It is called a restraining order.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0098par0126	He said I didn't have the authority, he didn't mention the situation before that, and I want to fix it.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0100par0127	Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0098par0130	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've just watched Mr. National Minister of Education Nabi Avcı....talk to Mr. Nabi Avcı....in his fatherly manner. I wish he could show his fatherly ways. He said I filed the case when he made the statement, but in January, my request for a driver's license was denied. That's true, but there's something the Minister missed. My administrative case... 18. He was supposed to tell the Supreme Court that the decision to stop the execution was made at my request, and he didn't say that. However, he combined two cases with me because it was the application of a student who was one-on-one with me in the main decision. She refused her driver's license because I'm not a student's parent, but since the same case is the same as the other student... So the Ministry of National Education decided that the application was wrong. Now, Mr. Secretary has explained a lot of things here, he said: we did these things, we did these things, we did these things. This is not true. While the Ministry was implementing this exercise, the scores of 718 students changed as a result of their evaluation of their papers. When 718 students change their score, 1 million,11,000 students change their rankings. Even if it's a point in ten thousand, the school that that student can get into changes. As the judiciary says in its main decision, it says: "Even though you say so, what you do is that when you calculate standard deviations, it is unfair to the students. There is a decision in the middle, the Ministry has not carried out this decision. The Minister has abused his position. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit02spe0101par0134	Thank you, Mr. Aya morning. Talks on the parliamentary inquiry motion are complete. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation into National Education Minister Nabi Avcı. Under Article 100 of the Constitution, we will vote in secret. Before we start voting, I'm going to make some statements about the method of voting. I propose how the secret vote will be conducted: from the commission and the government, from the clerk members of the commission to the commission, from Adana to Denizli, from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, from İstanbul, from İstanbul to İstanbul, from İzmir to Mardin, from Mardin and from Mersin to Zonguldak to Zonguldak, and from Zonguldak to Zonguldak, a member of the lawmakers whose name was read, will give a three-rounded envelope sealed with stamps, including one green, one red, and one red, and the letter of the letter will mark the letter and the letter in the letter. The MPs will not vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. As you know -- again -- accept the white one of these stamps, reject the red one, and abstain from the green one. Since the vote is confidential, I'd like to point out that you can't vote as a proxy. The member who will use the game will take three round stamps from the clerk and mark his name in the name book and then enter the closed voting place, put the stamp in the envelope where he will vote, and throw the other two stamps in the basket. At the same time, the voting member will place the ballot stamp in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. I'd especially like to ask that there be no fallout. Now, we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. We're lifting the mugs. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament (9/11) is the result of a secret vote on the opening of a parliamentary investigation into National Education Minister Nabi Avcı: So the investigation of the House was not approved. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0101par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Sky, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0102par0005	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's been a live bomb attack at the Tourism Station in Istanbul in the evening. In this attack, a police officer at the police station was killed and a police officer was injured, as was the death of a live bomb. We've learned this news from the press with sadness. We, the Republican People's Party, believe that no matter where it comes from, a terrorist act must be taken off our country's agenda without being tolerated, and we offer our condolences to the family and police community of our brother, who served at the police station and was a martyr. Again, we wish our wounded policeman a speedy recovery. It seems that in this atmosphere of our country, such an attack can occur even in sensitive areas like Istanbul. In this regard, it would be unfortunate for Turkey, as well as for our democracy, if we are being dragged into an environment where police can't even protect their own outpost. I have made a promise to tell the police that we strongly condemn such an event and to offer our condolences and our condolences to the police community. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0103par0011	Thank you, Mr. Sky. And we offer our condolences and say, "May God have mercy." Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0104par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the party of the National Movement Party, pray for the mercy of our fallen police officer, who has received the mercy of Hakkk. As a result of this attack on the police station in Sultanahmet. Turkey has the power to fight terrorist organisations. Terrorist organizations will never achieve their goal. I'd like to say that we've invited the government to be more sensitive about this. There's another matter. We just got a call from a citizen. I don't know if anyone's looking here or not, but I don't know if anyone's looking in Turkey. However, the district of Samsun 19mamas states that there has been no electricity in Düzköy province for over a week, saying that we are in a state of panic. If there's a minister who's sensitive, I'd appreciate it if he'd take our words into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0105par0023	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Now, in the second place, Tokat MP Orhan Güçük and 54 MPs, who have been in charge of removing evidence of crimes related to gold trafficking, who are responsible for the incident, were able to prevent active investigation of the incident, allowing gold smuggling and corruption to be shut down by the Turkish Penal Code (Turkish Penal Code) and the former Minister of Customs and the Minister of Commerce (Turkish Minister of Commerce) to conduct an investigation on the charge of misuse of the operation on Article 257. This meeting will be promised, respectively, to the first signator or to another signator, three members on behalf of his people, and, finally, former Minister of Customs and Trade Hayati Yazı (Second Minister) who had been asked to investigate him. As you know, their talking time is ten minutes. The parliamentary inquiry motion was read and published in the 24th Union of the General Assembly, dated 9/12/2014. That's why I'm not re-reading the motion for investigation. I read the names of the members of the MPs who have received the statement: Proclamation owner, Tokat MP Orhan Süçı, Mersin MP Ertuğul Kürkcu, Konya MP Faruk Bal, Tokat MP Zeyid Aslan; former Minister of Customs and Trade Rize MP Hayati Yaz who has been asked to be investigated. First, I'd like to call the motion-winning member of the Tokat Party, Orhan Sütlül, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0106par0035	Mr. President, I have made a commitment and I salute all of you to the motion that my people and friends have made regarding the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the former Minister of Customs, Mr. Hayati Printer. My dear friends, this is about the escaped gold plane of Reza Sarraf, which you all know about. The plane that leaves Ghana and is supposed to land at Istanbul Sabiha Gökçen Airport is landing at Ataturk Airport on the grounds that there are not so many crates at the airport. In fact, I think it would be if they told our ministers about this safe, but I don't think they did. Yes, my dear friends, when the plane lands at the airport, it is stated that the cargo on the plane is a natural stone sent from Ghana to Turkey for analysis, and that its economic value is only $1,898. However, when the air marshals go to unload the cargo, they see that the plane's configuration is missing. Of course, it's a very different mystery how an airplane without a convention took off from Ghana. The air marshals inform customs officers on this painting, and when customs officers arrive on the plane, they detect that there is 1,500kg of gold within 30 cases and seal the plane. Then, our friends who brought the gold report that 500 kilos of gold was brought to Duru Baziz, Istanbul, and the rest to Sorinet Holdings in Tehran. When he comes to Duru Fenziz airport, which says that the gold belongs to him by telephone, and he sees that things are going to hell, that the plane's documents are not properly edited, that the gold is not his own, and he makes it notarized. Meanwhile, in the second detection of customs officers on the plane, 1,500 kilos of gold appear to be off the plane due to its evaporation of probably 300 kilos, dropping to 1,208 kilos. My dear friends, look, this Reza's grandmother now has a famous saying in our political history, she says, with all due respect, you're going to give the officer's tip in advance. We remember that logic more than one place. In the squares, there was a man shouting, "O officer Kemal!," and in his mind he was trying to humiliate Kemal Kilicdaroglu, and while he was doing so, he humiliated millions of officials in this country with him. I'm the son of a father who served the state for 23 years, and I served the government for 20 years myself. Our fathers, my son, will not be the Prime Minister who says, "Clean the money." My son, flee, take refuge in the Ministry, the police will come. Let them be officers instead of ministers. We're proud of them. (HP and mp) We'll all see in the future, see if their children are proud of their fathers. In this process, despite all the pressure Mr. Minister's Undersecretary has put on Istanbul, an officer there says, "This is not a right job, this is smuggling, I don't allow this plane to take off." And so he gives everyone a moral lesson, and of course he deserves to be expelled as director. My dear friends, unfortunately, Istanbul Regional Manager for Customs and Commerce, Tefik Usta can't show the same courage and posture and allows the plane to take off even though he sees that all documents are forged. Even the deaf sultan has heard of all these events in Egypt, and the Minister is sending an inspector to oversee the incident twenty-nine days after the departure of the plane. In his report, the Omanye Gold company in Ghana, who sent the plane, says the annual trade volume is between $1m and $5m, that documents organised in Ghana are randomly arranged and not believable, saying that the company's address is a deserted house with no signs on it. Again, the same inspector's report shows that in terms of the Olaya kambiyo and smuggling legislation, the gold is intended to be intermittently or entirely into Turkey." He writes it down in his report. But for some reason, the inspector never mentions 300 kilos of gold missing from the plane, and he never asks anyone about it. The interesting thing is, the owner of the gold doesn't care where these 300 kilos of gold go. Of course, the inspector who saw all this isn't pressing charges against those who forged these documents, he's neglecting his duty, throwing the ball at the prosecution. He also wants the investigation to be judged not by smuggling legislation, but by opposition to the Law on Maintaining the Value of Turkish Money, although he has no such authority. My dear friends, by the way, those who set their time in Ankara according to Reza's time and those who are eager to stand in front of Reza are not idle either. You know what they do? In a bag of law that comes here, they remove the third joke of Article 3 (11) of Smuggling Law 5607, thus making legal cover for this deception and using the House. Now, in your defense, you'll say: "The import of gold is not subject to tax, it is not smuggling for him." The Law of Trafficking clearly states: "Indeed or not, any goods and goods that are intended to be entered into the country without being declared." Look, I'll tell you this: Lieutenant Mehmet Ali Çelebi was destroyed because he was Aleki, just because he was an Ataturker; you were together then. The man committed suicide, and his blood was in your hands, and I'm telling you clearly, you were together then, but when it came to corruption, they suddenly became parallel. Now, there's an international dimension to this, my friends. Because of the transactions made by the people who did these transactions at the Agriculture Bank in New York, the United States Central Bank has taken into consideration the Fed Agriculture Bank, and you all know that, and the individual activities of the bank have been stopped. It is said that the punishment for the bank will also sink the Agriculture Bank, which is one of the two banks you left for sale. So, if we go with this head, we'll be sacrificing the Bank of Agriculture to Reza. Now, as if that wasn't enough, you tried to make Reza a hero in front of the Turkish flag using your aide press. Look, that flag doesn't get the color of the dollar green, it gets the blood of the martyrs of this country. Don't use the Turkish flag for the dirty work you've done, stop it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, we almost declared a national mourning in case Reza's child's child died. However, the Minister of the Interior was not even there when the eyes of our children were taken out on the trip. Now, Reza said: "I've closed a quarter of the current deficit in this country. I'm glad Bakili Yıldırım didn't hear it, or he would have made Reza Prime Minister instead of Davutoglu." [[!]] You can make Reza a hero, you can raise your hands and think you're laundering this, or you can say: "There's public support behind us." Yes, they're ringing you, but they're working you. There's 50 percent of them, but don't forget there's another 50 percent in this country that says, "I've got poison." I want to remind you of that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I want you to know that we will certainly bring those who committed these crimes before the judgment, and we will never give up. Don't be afraid, we'll be fair, we'll be merciful, do you know who that is? We will be merciful until the last kick in the head of Ali Ismail. We will be as merciful as the cop who put a bullet in the head of Ethem Sarısülük. We will be as merciful as those who booed the mother of Berkin in the squares, and as those who booed. Until that day comes, we'll keep calling the thief a thief. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0107par0055	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0108par0058	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm going to speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the motion to open a parliamentary investigation into Mr. Hayati Printer, former Minister of Customs and Trade. Today, in fact, at the burial ceremony in the village, I'd like to mourn our beloved comrade Murat Bozlak. Once again, I remember our beloved deputy with longing and gratitude in your presence. Mr. Orhan Güçük and CHP MPs are charging Mr. Yazzör: Using his power and power to facilitate the work of illegitimate international gold traders, including Reza Zarrab, to free them from criminal responsibility, to prevent amendments that have damaged the public, to make reports that are laundering criminals under pressure from the Ministry inspectors, to allow them to share billions of dollars of illegitimate income among personal interests, and so on. The motion shows the material basis of the charges; the sequence of time, space and event flow is perfectly explained. The General Assembly, mostly seeking justice and justice, could do nothing but adopt this motion. But, it's funny, we all know the AKP majority won't actually do it, and if we bet on it, none of us will lose. If rights and justice once roamed under this roof, Turkey must have abandoned the majority of the Grand National Assembly today. The principle that guides the AKP today is power at all costs, wealth and power at all costs. On the other hand, the charges against Mr. Printer are basically an extension of the file which was cleared by the AKP's majority of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission yesterday. The spear that didn't fit in the sack came out of the sunlight here. But yesterday, there was no legal evidence. It would be a raw dream to expect the AKP people to accept the existence of the ring of corruption and robbery, which they ignored on the grounds of yesterday. Two years ago, on a spring day, you ignored the Roboski massacre, and this Christmas, you ignored the greatest corruption in history. You've closed off the parentheses you've opened in a massacre, no matter how much you brag about yourself. But, remember, friends, the case isn't closed yet; there is the General Assembly; you can't shut down the talks, you can't stop the MPs from participating in the debate, you can't stop the opposition from reaching information and documents. Peoples' Democratic Party was shot three weeks ago, predicting that result from that Commission, choosing to appear before the public rather than watch the candy man launder the corrupter in secret talks. The meeting of this motion is the first step on this road. As many as you want, consider the trial of the Commission a coup attempt. Documents and information leave no doubt that we are dealing with a criminal organization with international connections. There is no need to go far, just to listen to Mr. Erdogan brag about himself. When he was prime minister, they even listened to the crypto phones. As if he didn't say so, he continued to speak as President. We made a cryptophone. They listened to the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, and the ministers of the General Staff and served the information to other countries. Erdogan admitted that the recordings were made from his own phone, and the Forensic Medical Association confirmed that these records were authentic. That is because what we hear in the people is true. Whatever's going on at your place, you take these off, okay? What can I have, father? You have money in the safe. That's the speech. Yeah, we're up to our necks in criminal power under the law. It's not an exaggeration to say that Turkey, technically speaking, is under the control of a criminal organization with international connections. To cover each crime with another crime, the Constitution, law, law, administrative rules, fiscal regulations, is simply because the entire government of power has been apparently preserved, not only by citizens, but by international agreements but also by violations of their rights. The leaders of this criminal organization had hoped that their actions could be legitimised by the obligation to overcome the American embargo in front of importing natural gas from Iran, which they considered a vital source of energy for Turkey. They expected us to tolerate their shameful relations with such as Zarrab as an inevitable evil, which is necessary to walk behind international obstacles. We're not gonna take anything for granted. It is the responsibility of every government to find creative measures to maintain the energy flow, but it is not the way to associate with international criminal networks, to share public resources with international fraud networks. That doesn't give anyone the right to hoard people's money in shoeboxes, suitcases, bags, safes for their own sake. We call it self-righteousness. He who is full of gold shall not prosper. In the great work of Shakespeare, the great writer of Britain, in Timon. Look how this monasticism dehumanized mankind centuries ago as if it were living in today's world. It's gold... It's yellow, it's shiny, it's precious gold, It's enough to make land white, ugly beautiful, wrong right, noble, old, young, cowardly brave. Oh, gods, why this, why this, O gods! He turns his face away from your priests, your servants, and from you, he lays a mortal man on his deathbed. This yellow slave builds religion, then he destroys it, he blesses the curse, he faces the leper's skirt, he takes the thief, he takes the thief, he takes the title, he sits in the same line with the nobles. That's the 40-year-old widow who made a husband. That's what makes the most disgusting patient into a April day. Go, you fucking mine, the medium of humanity, you, who turned nations into herds and attacked one another. Do you understand what Shakespeare is talking about, what he's talking about? [[Applause from CHP rows]] One of the greatest victories of mankind's struggle to escape the domination of those who possess wealth and power, Lenin, in the following year of the great October Socialist Revolution, said that gold would work in a toilet in the future of humanity, he said: "When we are victorious throughout the world, I think we will use the gold to build public halas in the greatest cities in the world. Thus, the gold will be used in the most just and instructive way to benefit generations who have not yet forgotten how 10 million people were killed for the purpose of what is called the great war of freedom, the Battle of 1914-1918. We hope that we may still lack the conditions and the power to evaluate gold in this way today. But believe me, friends of the AKP, you have helped us without knowing about the fair use of gold today. You tied yourself to an international criminal named Reza Zarrab, with chains of gold, and put a bracelet of gold on your own wrist. The People's Democratic Party will bind the other link of the handcuffs to your other wrist, and will not do its utmost to get a fair trial. My respects.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0109par0082	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Iconian MP Faruk Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0110par0086	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are concerned about the charge against Mr. Minister in this inquiry, the fact that the plane, which Babek Zencani, arrested in Iran, rented by Babek Zencani, has been sealed on 1 January 2013 due to the arrival of 1.5 tonnes of illegal gold belonging to Babek Zencani and Reza Zarrab. From now on, dirty hands come to work. In order to save 1.5 tonnes of gold, the plane, and the friends whom Reza and Reza had bribed, false consortiums and bills were arranged. After 17 days of waiting at the airport, the plane was sent to Dubai, along with these false bills and documents. In such cases, Minister Yazıyur has been asked not to make legal transactions in Turkey's one, aircraft and illegal gold; two, to order an investigation into smuggling and to investigate the incident twenty-nine days after the illegal plane has left; and in this order, to ensure that the aircraft's cargo is transit property; that it goes to Dubai, that it descends to Turkey for fuel supply, and that the investigation be completed in this direction and that the inspector's report will be closed within a month. He's charged with these crimes, Mr. Secretary. In addition, the two are accused of simply investigating and closing files on senior bureaucrats who have committed the real crime; two of whom, instead of fined the real perp ULS Airlines, by making it look like they've done what they had to do to make it look like they've done what they've done; and three are charged with not carrying out the Ministry's control and control duties as they should. Furthermore, the day comes as part of the article 3 (11) of the Law on Trafficking (11), Article (1), (2) and (5) as part of the 4th jokes of the Law on Trafficking (11), for knowing that it can be reviewed under an organization's operation and re-examined, Zencani and Zarrab will be punished like those who are guilty of crimes, and will be punished like those who know that the crime has been committed. The images of gold smuggling are fixed by the figures and irrefutable documents. The Turkish nation saw it, we saw it, you saw it, we all saw it, most importantly God saw it. With this information, Minister Yazpur is stable and has to be investigated. Honourable MPs have not seen what God knows, what the Turkish nation sees, what you see, what we see, what you have politicalized, and what you have commissioned to pledge. The original criminals were ruled untraceable when gold smugglers were smuggling millions of dollars in suitcases, backpacks, safes, boxes, euros. This decision was made a black mark on Turkish legal history. The four ministers who investigated the Commission's investigation of the millions of dollars were also reduced to a black mark on the Veteran Assembly, laundering four ministers, an extension of the AKP government. Dear lawmakers, in the 1960s and 1980 coups, you used the judiciary as a weapon in the March 12, 1971 and February 28, 1997, as AKP, in 2010, after the Constitutional amendment, as a weapon. And now you're using the judgment as a weapon to cover corruption. The AKP does not view the judiciary as a clearing position. The AKP considers the Constitutional Court, which it has chosen 12 of its 17 members as the guardianship office, so the AKP does not recognise the judiciary as a judiciary. It's called avoiding judgment, it's called a non-judgmental democracy, or rather, it's a postmodern dictatorship. When the 25 December MIT and corruption operations came out, the AKP government had police, prosecutors, judges who first seized evidence to get rid of evidence -- take the file, drive it around -- then they had the law flipped. He received HSYK, Supreme Court, Prosecutor's Office, Justice Academy, Penal Code, Penal Code, and bag of laws for doing that. In order to save the tail from gold smuggling, Article 4 of the Law on Trafficking has also been changed by your votes. With this modified clause, such as Mr. Secretary Printer, this clause has been lifted from effect in order to prevent smuggling verbs and to be held responsible as a joint perpetrator of the crime committed in the event that officials deliberately condone smuggling. Those who stole the minaret when removing this clause have been prepared by AKP lawmakers. My dear friends, these acts of corruption are sinful, morally immoral, legally criminal, and there is salvation. You're going to repent, you're going to resign morally, and you're going to answer legally, legally, in court. Silence in the face of injustice is the dumb devil. Instead, the declaration of the postmodern dictatorship of AKP who does not recognise the judiciary is not a good sign. Dear MPs, I'd like to say a few words to the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. This Commission was established on 5 May. The AKP stalled for sixty-four days without granting members. The first meeting was held on July 7th, and Mr. Hakkı was elected a member of the village. Two days before Mr. Villageman was elected a member, he was spoken to by reporters in the lobby, and I heard it, we heard it, we heard it, we all heard it. It's amazing how his name came up in the first draw, but it's out! The first meeting was held, Mr. Villager was elected President, compiling files without collecting the commission, sending them to the prosecutor in Istanbul. Why? To get a knee compass. My dear friends, it is the Constitutional decree to use the full powers of the Commission's Council of Ministers. Isn't a commission capable of making knee compasses? Yeah, but there's work involved. Why? The prosecutors who introduced the fezlekes had gone from gym to gymnastics, and instead new ones had been replaced, new prosecutors should have redesigned these files. As a matter of fact, according to media reports, the number of files, which were 64 when they first arrived, dropped to 33 files when they came to the Commission, and 33 files were downloaded into 11 files after being sent by Commissioner Haklı Bey. The file's half as good as uranium! My dear friends, this must create serious doubts in your mind as it is in ours. However, the Commission announced the day of its decision on December 22nd, 2:00 p.m., Monday, no matter what wisdom it was, it was not gathered that day; they said it was not gathered; they said it couldn't be assembled; they said it couldn't be assembled; they said it couldn't be gathered; it was held yesterday. There was only one reason this Commission's meeting was postponed four times, which was to be surprised which of the Commission would comply with instructions from the high hill and the low hill. Here, about corruption... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the end of the Prime Minister's decision, it became clear that he had lost his voice. In other words, Turkey's Grand National Assembly was exonerated by the 17-25 December corruption operation, convincing or threatening of nine AKP MPs in front of the Veteran Assembly. Of course, this acquittal says it won't end here, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0111par0097	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Zayid Aslan, the slap MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0112par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to extend my condolences to Peoples' Democratic Party Adana MP Mr. Murat Bozlak. And to the precious police who were killed in the attack on a police station in Sultanahmet. Dear friends today, Republican People's People's Party MP Orhan Sýçı and his friends have issued a motion to investigate the former Minister of Customs and Trade Mr. Hayati Printer on the grounds of preventing gold trafficking and to be punished on the grounds that he did not do the necessary tacit work on customs officials and also that the traffickers were leading to a change in the law so that they could receive less punishment. First of all, our friends briefed us on the investigation motion, but I'd like to briefly sum up the fact that on 1 January 2013, a cargo plane, which leaves Ghana, which was included in the documents from Ghana, or samples, will land at Ataturk Airport on 1 January 2013. At the same time as the landing, the captain states to the customs administration that there is a cargo load in which he claims gold, but since there is no evidence of that, customs officers are willing to place documents from a suspicious situation, but when the documents don't come, they seal the plane and pull it aside. Over the course of time, authorities of an Iranian firm, who signed a transport contract with the interested aircraft authorities and the gold on their way out of Ghana, have submitted some consortiums and documents to the customs administration, but are expected to be the originals because they are photocopies. Customs officers and customs executives will not allow the arrival of persons involved in the aircraft and the release of the gold to Turkey after the actual absence of their originals during the specified time. Then, on January 8th, the interested firm officials and airlines organise a new consortium, demanding that the plane be transferred to Dubai, and they submit their documents to customs officials, customs administration. These documents have been issued, and the results of the investigation and investigation of the customs administration are allowed to take up Dubai on 17 January, along with the cargo load on the plane involved. That's the main theme. Now, in either the motion to investigate here or in the case of the matter, is the reason for a gold smuggling charge that has been launched from Ghana through the process of January 1st through January 17th, through transit from Turkey to Dubai? It is more than a question of what the criminal provisions or legal provisions that will be carried out here because of the import of that gold are, in fact, very clear. Especially speaking on behalf of the motionholders, my dear Slapstick MP friend, a friend of mine, who we had a political relationship with in Tokat, may have been lacking in the legal definitions of not being a lawyer. First, of course, any transaction that is subject to customs and should be examined in customs, but is intended to be passed without a customs examination, constitutes the motive for a smuggling charge. But especially in the import of gold and other such bars -- it is not possible to assess any entry that is tax-free and is exceptioned to VAT, because it is not subject to import taxes, because of the exception of VAT. Because what constitutes the main element of smuggling crime, the main objective in smuggling, is to avoid the tax of the property, or to pay less tax, or to get rid of the VAT. Due to the fact that these elements are not being moved, especially as stated in the Customs Law, the entry of the gold into Turkey is not subject to any tax, it is not subject to VAT, it is not subject to any other spending. For this reason, each transaction related to gold imports is a process that cannot be assessed within the scope of trafficking. But if there is any irregularity done here, if the document is not documented or the documents are missing, of course, there are procedures that must be done by the customs administration, which is in Article 239, which is included in the Customs Law. When we look at the file, we see that customs officers are doing the necessary procedures as required by Article 239, and the criminal proceedings, specifically -- because they're being evaluated under this clause -- are being applied as a result of the examination and investigation of the administrative fines required under this clause. In particular, during this import period, we have seen the file in which 3 companies mentioned the value of the property, referred to as the value of the 239, each has a separate administrative fine imposed on each of them by a tenth of its value, and on the other hand, on the first and third jokes of Article 3 of the Law on Maintaining Value of Turkish Money. So, we see here that the Ministry of Customs and Trade and, therefore, customs officers have carried out their obligations to the end, and therefore they are unable to be subject to any kind of investigation. In addition, in this process, we see in the file, the prosecution's examinations that the person named Reza Zarhrab had just been mentioned was under technical surveillance. In this process, we see that both Reza Zarrab or all those alleged to have been linked to him in the 17-day process, or in their talks with customs officers, or in their talks with customs officials, the customs officers at Ataturk Airport have resisted until the end of the irregularity, and they have fulfilled the customs legislation of the Customs Law. Now, here, I can't see anything in this inquiry proposal about what direction, what written instruction, or how they gave the healing instructions, when they gave it, what document, or what conversation they delivered it with. However, I've been through some of the files from the prosecution, all of them, from the beginning to the end, but I haven't seen anything about it. Besides, the prosecutor's office issued that report in its expert report, which was assigned to the prosecution on January 18, 2013, by Celal Kara. The prosecutor's office, who conducted the 17th December process, gave them the expert's report that the prosecutor had carried out in accordance with all the procedures and procedures of the customs inspectors at Ataturk Airport, and that there was no crime to be charged with. Now, on one hand, in an investigation file conducted by the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office will be charged in what we call the prosecutor's office's report on December 17th, which states that customs officers have committed no crime and that there is no criminal charge. You can't really understand that. Therefore, since neither the legislation for gold smuggling is appropriate nor the claim that the customs officers have not carried out their duties, the gold is completely empty and has been eliminated by the prosecution's file, we see that the motion for this investigation is a motion that is not properly prepared, that is not well studied, and is not well studied, and is not part of the legal framework and the legal framework. Of course, the motion could only be made for this reason: Can we contribute to the perception operation, which began on December 17th and tried to undermine Turkey's power, undermine Turkey's reputation, and prevent its journey to regional power in its region, and make it a topic of discussion and keep it on the agenda? I don't think there is any infrastructure outside of it. On this occasion, I personally declare that I will vote no on this motion of inquiry, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0113par0112	Thank you, Mr. Lion. The final statement belongs to the former Minister of Customs and Trade, Hayati Yazri, who has been asked to be investigated. Here you go, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0116	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I present you with my opinion, my opinion on the motion to investigate me. I salute you all. The 98th article of the Constitution has organised procedures for the administration of the legislative body: general discussion, parliamentary research, verbal-written questions motions and a motion to investigate. For one thing, parliamentary research, general discussion, verbal and written question proposals aim to acquire information based on a doubt, a hearing, a convincing perception. But the motion to investigate, the gene, targets a person or a person, raises claims about his personality rights, he's very serious. When preparing a motion for an investigation or a motion for a gene, a person must first respect the rules, which are the most fundamental rule of law. When we look at it in this perspective, it's a question motion, really, which is set up for subjective purposes, away from objective facts. Now I'm going to share them, in order of matter and matter. Dear lawmakers, I have once been accused of destroying evidence of gold smuggling with this motion. Which evidence did I remove? What's wrong with me destroying it? Everything related to this incident is still in the file until the plane leaves from the moment it arrives in Turkey. You found something there, and you destroyed it. Can you say that? It's an unrealistic claim. A second claim: Twenty-nine days later to prepare a legal cover, it is alleged that the object carried by the plane was a transit object, went to Dubai, came to Turkey for fuel neglect, and I appointed the inspector. And that's completely unrealistic, as it stands for: once, the quote here is a prerequisite of my investigation directive. I've instructed the investigation that the cargo plane from the airlines should be investigated and briefed within a month by all aspects of the matter, by observing all aspects of the matter, and by keeping an eye on its privacy, from the moment it landed at Ataturk Airport. What's missing here? Oh, you don't want this, you're gonna get the introduction paragraph. It's not right and it's not law. I limited it for a month. What am I gonna do? Are you going to predict the time? When I became minister, in 2008, the headline in a newspaper became 70 Truck Steam. What happened to God? I've looked into it; a customs incident that's been done has become news. The inspector just reported in. I immediately asked for a summary of the files that all control units have; who has what, what, what they have, and I collected them in two folders, I created a committee, I examined them, and I saw there that three files were hidden. One of them is very famous, especially when those banks went down, and they put a ten-year statute of limitations. We took control of that inspector by order of the disciplinary committee. Shouldn't I have? And that taught me a lesson. From that day on, I've instructed my friends: "Control, you'll put the investigation times in the calendar according to the nature of the job." There's not enough time, there's thousands of examples, there's an international correspondence, there's no time, there's no time, there's no time, that's what we're doing. Twenty-nine days later, you say. How do you know? Why don't you look at the paper? I, many of my friends among you, raised written questions, answered them all. They didn't prepare the motion, which is a strange contradiction. Sir, the process is over. As soon as I find out, my instructions to my friends are to do absolutely no wrong work, you will conduct everything within the law and within the written law and within the ethics of the law. I'm going to perform? And my friends, in this precision, performed procedures in the process, and in the end, we asked for the documents, and according to my initial directive, they came to me on February 13, 2013. When did I give the order? February 15th. Well, let me take a look at it for a day. The inspector wrote the report, what did he say? There is no crime in the officers, the procedures are done. But he recommended the sanction in Article 239 of the Customs Law related to the 3 companies: 11,400,000. We said it should be done, and it was made up of 11 million, 400 grand each... sir, it could be fraud, the prosecution would consider it, and we sent it to the State's Attorney's office. Those papers have changed, etcetera. Sir, there is opposition to the Law on Maintaining the Value of Turkish Money. We sent the prosecutor's office there, and a real person issued a $57m fine to a legal person. Dear friends, very interesting...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0124	Why did he pay the fine, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0125	That's a very interesting argument...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0116par0126	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0127	Why did he write the ticket? There's been some irregularity, and he must have cut it for her.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0128	What was he going to do?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0129	Tell me about it, tell me about it.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0130	What was he going to do? That's his job. According to the Turkish Act on Maintaining Values of Money, it is the prosecutor's authority and duty to impose administrative sanctions, and the administration cannot. If you open the law and look, you'll find out. Sir, from behind, you say: "You have cleared the public officials." Who have I exonerated, and who have I absolved?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0132	The governor's office didn't authorize an investigation.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0133	You're talking about senior officers.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0134	Officer!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0135	Who's in there? Who's in charge?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0136	The governor's office didn't authorize the customs officer's investigation.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0137	My district manager in Istanbul at the time was indicted for opposition by the Trafficking Act and was ruled untraceable. Dear friends...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0139	The governor's office didn't give the relevant officer permission to investigate!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0140	Look, I'm defending.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0141	Tell me if you did.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0142	Look, the right to defend is sacred, the right to defend is sacred, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0143	Then tell me exactly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0144	You'll listen to me.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0115par0145	If there's no crime, why don't you ask him?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0117par0146	Just hear me out, for God's sake!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0147	With the change we made in the Law of Smuggling, I've been able to prevent further investigation of this action. I'm very sorry. There are some of you lawyers I care about, and some of my friends have signed this motion. What if he's that much of a legal freak? Look, on January 1, 2013, the date of the inspector's report is March 18, 2013, which means when the inspector gives his report, the Unchanging Trafficking Law is in effect, and he has made that argument, will it enter Law 5607? It doesn't, and the law you're talking about came into effect on April 11, 2013; one, this. Two: Look, the most decisive application between the Trafficking Law and Customs Law is this: is it tax-related or not? My dear Aslan explained it well here. If he is taxed, if there is a flaw in the transactions, if there is an attempt, he will enter into the Law of Smuggling; if he is not subject to tax, he will enter into the Customs Act. Gene, if it's illegal to import, whatever it is, it's in the Law of Trafficking. The import of gold is not forbidden, the trade is not forbidden, it's not subject to any tax, it's not subject to the value tax of addition, since when? Since 1984. He hasn't been subject to SVR since 1990. He's not subject to customs taxes since 1996. Therefore, a non-tax-indulgence product...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0118par0150	What's wrong with making a false statement? What did he get the ticket for? Isn't it a crime in customs to give false statements?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0151	Here we go. We're on our way.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0118par0152	Tell me why he got the ticket.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0153	The 239th article of the Customs Law -- I have stated -- was applied, and the 239th Article of the Customs Law was applied, in view of the attempt to be imported to Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to read this item exactly as it goes into the transcripts. Importance or export tax exemptions from property under Article 33...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0119par0156	Give him time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0120par0157	I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0114par0158	Thank you. ..except for the designated customs doors, those who attempt to import or export or export or remove such items without customs transactions will be subjected to administrative sanctions at a tenth of the FOB value if the CIF value is imported at work. It's been implemented, that's what it is. Dear friends, in this case, there is no procedure that the public does or does not do what the Ministry has to do. So, we didn't eat ash in this case, but you made raw meatballs in your motion, and you're trying to put my personality, my personal rights in it. I don't eat this raw meatloaf, and I don't feed it to you! I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0121par0163	Thank you, Mr. Printer.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0121par0165	Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0166	Mr. President, the former Minister has claimed that I have insulted him with his rights of character. I want a promise to make this right.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0121par0167	Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0170	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I want to make it clear that the Minister has no personal beef with me, and I don't have it with him. There's only one thing I can do about...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0123par0171	Apologize!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0172	My speech is clear, don't yap! [[From the AK PARTY lines, the sounds, the noises.]] My speech is clear, my speech is clear.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0124par0175	Don't yap!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0125par0176	Please calm down, please!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0177	My speech is clear.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0124par0178	Don't threaten me!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0179	If you can find a single insult to the Minister himself...
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0124par0180	You just said that in your speech!
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0122par0181	...I'm happy to apologize to him, one. Second, Mr. Aslan said I didn't study for me. Mr. Aslan and I are doing politics together in Tokat, and we have the law to say so much, but Mr. Aslan knows me better than Tokat. Another thing: Mr. Secretary, you said: "This investigation has been conducted correctly, it has been conducted in its place." I'm just asking you this question: Look, you spoke on this bench, you didn't say a word: Where did 300 kilos of lost gold go? Explain that to us. I gave him up, the inspector didn't study him. So, Mr. Secretary, you've seen this report, you've studied it, you've seen that there's no 300 kilos of gold, so why didn't you ask this inspector, brother, where did 300 kilos of gold go, and why didn't you investigate it? (CHEERING) Answer that, I want nothing more than you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0126par0186	Thank you, Mr. Straight. You?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0188	Let me get this straight.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0126par0189	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0192	Dear lawmakers, look, I'm a lawyer; I'm not going to be modest, I'm a good lawyer, I claim it. That's not in your motion to investigate, you can't ask me that.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0128par0194	We're asking now.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0195	It's the basic rule of criminal law, the law of procedure, but I'm still going to answer for the end of this congressional term. Look, he's declaring the stuff as a bearer of gold. Why didn't you punish the mover?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0129par0197	Well, why would he overstate it?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0198	The carrier declares it, and if the carrier does not declare it, perhaps it will pass through the study, the meminal samples. His statement is important, effective.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0130par0199	Is that the inn across the street?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0200	Why wasn't he punished? He's not being punished for it. So, you do a physical search, you do a physical check, whatever the physical control results are, it comes out. The plane was sealed three times, sealed in the morning when it arrived, four people sealed in three places, two sealed in four, unable to open because there were no keys; then the physical control, identified, found the road. So there's no data on whether or not 292 kilos of gold entered Turkey, but we applied the administrative fine as if 1.5 tons of gold had arrived.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0131par0201	That's not fair, that's unfair, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0132par0202	Where'd he go?
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0127par0203	Oh, that's right.
tbmm-2015-01-06sit03spe0133par0205	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Printer. Congressmans, negotiations on the parliamentary inquiry motion have been completed. I will submit to your votes whether or not a parliamentary investigation into former Minister of Customs and Trade Hayati Printer should be opened. Under Article 100 of the Constitution, we will vote in secret. As you know, the white of the stamps means the white of the stamps, and the red one means the green one means the Czech one. Since the vote will be held in secret, I'd like to point out that the power of attorney cannot be voted. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. Now, I'm starting the secret vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. We're lifting the mugs. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament (9/12) a secret vote on the opening of a parliamentary investigation into former Minister of Customs and Trade Hayati Printer, the main one: Mine Leuk White Wish Rise The opening of a parliamentary investigation was not approved with these results. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 6/1/2015 on Tuesday. Mihrimah Belma Row Levent Gök Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party People's Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly's Union on Wednesday (7/1/2015) recommended that verbal questions not be discussed. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 7th 2015) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
