tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adana MP Ali Halaman, who wants to talk about the problems of the citrus manufacturers. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0002par0011	Dear President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to address the problems of agricultural and citrus producers. I salute you all, farmers, narcissists, agricultural workers. And thank Mr. President for promising me that. Of course, this General Assembly usually starts on Tuesday. At a group meeting last Tuesday, the nationalist movement party head of the Nationalist Movement Party, Dr. State Gardens manager, explained in detail the troubled situation in which the artist was involved. And this week, on Tuesday, he described the deep aspects of agriculture -- both mathematically and physically and socially. We have nothing to say about what our Mr. President has told us about this agriculture, but I've taken an off-the-book statement earlier, and I'm here to tell you about the problems of the narcissists and agriculture -- which are waiting for a solution in Turkey. Now, the citrus grows in the world, in America, in China, in India, in Spain, in Italy, in Brazil, in these areas. Turkey is also a country that is entering the field point, which will meet 3 per cent of the world in the narcissist, so it will take the top 10th place in October. In our country, we have Hatay in the region of Adana, first of all, in Çukurova, just after Çukurova, in the region of Antalya, in the region of İzmir, Mersin, Tarsus, Erdemli, and in Adana, the most in the plain of Kozan, Sumbas, Kalbir. I mean, the people of our country need the most in that region as a narcissist, to shape the soil, to shape it, to make it, to call the narcissist, to use it at both the industry and the food point, to produce, to recollate, but to sell at least two-thirds of it, 50 percent of it out of its branches when you can't sell it out. That's why I think it's politics that's the main problem here today, where a citrus can't find customers for 25 cents, 30 cents, and it's not sold, and it's from our country. In the past period, the manufacturers have told the ministers of power, particularly the ministers of the economy -- who are responsible for the economy, so they are responsible for customs, responsible for agriculture, responsible for finances -- but recently Economy Minister is going to Adana. I know this trade, foreign trade. He says; he doesn't listen to a man from the narcissist manufacturer's union, so he doesn't say what you did, what you did with the orange, what you did with the lemon. So in the ruling lawmakers, whether it's Bayram -- he's a pharmacist -- the MP of Mersin, the MP from the CHP -- they're lawmakers from the narcissistic regions, although they're DFIF loans, exports -- so our Tarosian MP is going through a period where the movers don't go to sell goods to nine neighbors, even Iraq. So let the ruling party stop thinking about what it is, what it is, whether it's Arabic, whether it's Kurdish, whether it's Yezidi, why it's not sold to Ukraine, why it's not sold to Ukraine, why it's not sold to Iraq, what's not sold to the country, why it's not sold to other people's economy, why it's not sold to agriculture, it's not sold to the narcissist, it's not because of customs, why it's not sold to Russia, why it's not sold to Ukraine. I, for that, am done - thanking all of you, giving you all my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement is from Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for the talks on January 24th and Gaffar Okkan (January 31st) because of the anniversary of Aksoy's death. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is January, a really, really dark month for revolutionaries, for patriots, for intellectuals, to be truly enlightened. In January, people really black out. Twenty-two years ago, revolutionary, patriotic writer Ugur Mumcu was murdered. Today, on January 24th, we remember Uður Mumcu. In fact, all of our friends in this Parliament have no doubt that Ugur Mumcu is a respected journalist. But to remember Uður Mumcu is to question why Uður Mumcu had died. Muammar Aksoy, Kemal Türkler, Vedat Aydın, and Gün Sazak are the ones to investigate, question, and enlighten the darkness behind these events. On January 31st, Muammar Aksoy was murdered, and Hrant Dink was murdered on January 17th. Those who object to the removal of yesterday's covers regarding the murder of Hrant Dink are trying to remove them one way or another today. In fact, what we have to do as Parliament is answer questions asked by relatives of political murders left unsolved in Turkey. So today those children want to know why their fathers, wives, husbands were killed, and mothers want to know why their sons were killed. But as Parliament, we can't seem to answer that. We, the Republican People's Party Group of the 23rd term, have submitted nine parliamentary investigation motions to clarify these unsolved political murders. But each time, our motion was rejected on grounds of water, rejected by our AKP friends. But on the other hand, the Prime Minister said today's political killings left unsolved will be illuminated. Dear lawmakers, pretending to show a stance against unsolveds and coups on one side, but on the other hand, watching the darkness of these events continue will not save us from responsibility in front of history. Turkey needs to be a state of law today. Now our people want the opposition party and the ruling party and all parties to shed light on these unsolved murders. Our people see better than we do that the two-thirds opposition of power and the opposition's accusations of power are of no benefit to the public. Today, indeed, we see that Ugur Mumcu's thoughts are not dead. Today, twenty-two years ago, the writings of Ugur Mumcu are one and the same. Uður Mumcu's attitude as a journalist, who does not kneel before the authorities, who does not bow down, is actually needed more today. Uður Mumcu never bowed to political power and bosses, never kneeled before them; in front of the people, he showed what journalism was like; he didn't bow down, he didn't bow down, he didn't break. We need more reporters like this today. Greece's SYRIZA party has shown that left-wing thought can be power, depending on its own strength. If I were a Greek voter today, without hesitation, and without a doubt, my vote would belong to SYRIZA. In the 21st century, Chipras gave a concrete example of the fact that religion can be powered without actually being used to politics, pointing out to politicians in Turkey how a secular prime minister should be in the 21st century. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe that Turkey will also have those days. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy to Uður Mumcu, Gaffar Okkan, and Muammer Aksoy. I also wish that all unsolved murders of Turkey's Grand National Assembly be illuminated. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Deliberate Friday (Friday) who wants to talk about growing hostility to Islam in the world. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, those who can't learn Christianity from King Necashi of Ethiopia, from Meccan Jews, are Christians without Jesus Christ and Jews without Moses. Those who failed to become human took part in the attack on the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001, and in the murders of France 2015, those who did not understand the Gospel or the Torah. Those who do not see themselves from the people of Abraham the Holy One, who have taken the blame for the enmity of Islam, who have slaughtered in the name of Islam, who have slaughtered children in Palestine, who have insulted the Lord of the Prophet. Those who do not understand why Seladdin Ayyubi (Salahdin Eyubi) gave the key to the Kaaba of the Prophet (Musullah), which is far from understanding the three religions that allowed Sultan Mehmet Mehmet to live together, who cannot see why the Prophet gave the key to the Kaba, who do not understand why he gave his life to Medina (from Mecca) to Medina (from Mecca), who do not understand why he gave his life to an idolater, to women, to the children, to the elderly, to the sick, who do not understand that he is a religion that conquers the hearts of Islam (Islamic Islam), who don't understand that he is a Christian, and that he is a prophet. Let them know that as long as this soul is in this body, there are millions of Muslims like me, like us. Our name, however, is Islam. When we were on this road, we said, "God is enough for us." Now, many European countries will increase the hostility of Islam by using attacks as an excuse and will constrain Muslim habitats as a result. These attacks will be used against Muslims to feed on the hostility of Islam, and in many European countries the headdress will be banned, mosques will remain open to attack, Muslims will be persecuted, and a Muslim will be hunted. Then is it possible for Muslims to launch these two attacks? The real terrorists who wanted to make Muslims look like terrorists in the middle of Europe were Muslims who killed tens of thousands of Muslims in Bosnia, started the first and second world wars in Bosnia, dropped nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, killed 150 million Indians and 100 million Africans, killed 5 million in Vietnam, killed 5 million in Palestine, killed 5 million in Syria, Iraq, Myanmar, Pakistan, Afghanistan, and 5 million Muslims in Algeria. Who were those who tortured inhumane in Abu Ghraib Prison and Guatemala? Hey, why are you French to 12 French people, 12 million Muslims who have been slaughtered in the last ten years, to the oppressed people, and still stay? We've put in our reaction for 12 people. Will you walk tomorrow for 12 million Muslims? Israel will kill, it will not be called Jewish and Jewish terror; it will be slaughtered by Christians throughout Africa; it will not be called Christian terror, Buddhists will burn Muslims alive; it will not be called Buddhist terror, but it will be called Islamic terror organizations, which you built with your own hands, when you kill so-called Islamic terror organizations. Get out of here! You're going to tell the Jews that the Jews have committed genocide. You're going to say, "Criminal; Genocide has not been committed." You're going to say, "Criminal is a crime; it's a crime to open a mosque, to cover it, to keep a beard, to live a Muslim life; it's a crime to insult our Prophet. Get out of here! The Byzantines among us, who have not been able to be as sincere as the Pope you hold hands in the Vatican, who are working with the Byzantines, the Hashishis, who see the insult to our Lord as freedom of opinion, swallow their tongues when they are attacked by the curse of the Lord. Peace be upon those who prostrate themselves before the presence of God, and upon those who blaspheme against the Messenger of God.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you. Mr. Sky, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the past week, we have all celebrated the 117th year of Nazim Hikmet, as well as the 22nd anniversary of the death of master journalist Ugur Mumcu. I, too, respectfully salute the unrelenting defenders of Turkey's independence, freedom, human rights struggle once again. Meanwhile, I would like to express our appreciation for the second election of our Ankara MP Gulsun Bilgen to the Council of Europe's Anti-Egality and Discrimination Commission, and wish Gülsın Hanım with our Parliament's information on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Women's Equality Commission. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. 26.01.2015 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Press Ads Agency, which mediated the publication of official ads and public institutions, is in trouble with its functioning, auditing and institutional structure. The problem structure of the institution has been revealed since recent events in Sakarya that killed two of its staff. With respect, we offer the opening of Parliamental research under Article 94, 104, 105, and 105, of the Constitution, to determine the problems that arise with the public's declarations and ads and measures aimed at resolving the problems. 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu İstanbul 4) Osman Oktay Sokşi İstanbul 6) Ali Haydar Öner Isparta 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Develi 12) Ramadan Kerim Özkan Burdur 14) Haluk Ahmet Silver Balıkesir 16) Smyrna of Rahmi Love 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Hatay 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan Çanakkale 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan Samsun It is both right and legal necessity for public institutions to bring their announcements and ads to the public, and for the public to be aware of these announcements and ads. Public institutions have always been a subject of debate as to how to make public announcements and ads through media broadcasters. These discussions often stem from the distribution of the ads to the publishers. The Press Ads Agency, which will medialy media and public institutions in order to reduce these discussions and distribute the ads with justice, was established in 1961 in the form of the public legal personality with Law No.195. Press broadcasters publish public ads and ads on national scales and local scales according to set measures. The Press Advertisement Agency also cuts its revenues by cutting rates of up to 15 per cent from its broadcasters. High-level cuts from ad revenues, which are the lifeblood of local media, have been perceived as a tribute wherever it is. Increased ads and ads in recent years have also led to an increase in the number of ads distributed by the institution and have become very important for local media to continue broadcasting. This increase in ads and ads also brought the press ads to a very serious level of revenue. In addition, a large amount of fines and the way the institution operates have laid the groundwork for a rant fight. It is also alleged that it has made luxury expenses from its income. In that case, the costs of the institution must also be examined. In addition to high cuts, a month's delay to press agencies by the Press Agency has left local media facing financial difficulties. In the cities without the Press Ads Association, the governorship or subsidiaries run this mission, and there are no cuts in the price of the ads. However, the fact that revenue resources are in the hands of local executives endangers media freedom. Ads and ads hand-delivered by local executives are one of the reasons for the media's internal censorship. In this respect, the institution's regulations and the institution's law may need to be reconsidered. Coin resources are limited local media organs, unfairly distributed ads and ads, and high cuts are forced to compete for ads instead of quality competition. They're also forced to inform on each other by informing on the Foundation, instead of reporting. This has cost two lives in Sakarya, as far as the press is concerned. By handing out ads and ads to the press, especially when it is an important institution where local media can survive and their problems can be resolved, it will contribute to the investigation of the problem of the Press Agency, which has become a problem of its own, and the development of solution proposals by the Parliament's research commission, to restore the institution's reputation, local freedom of the press and freedom of the public's information. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Troubles often arise in our country's foster homes. Children's Services Homes, formerly owned by the Social Services Child Protective Services Agency (SHCEK), have been closed under the Law Code No. 633 (BK/TK) and transferred to the Department of Children's Services of the newly established Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The last of the recent news-release scandals in the foster homes has appeared in the East Samsun Girls' Home. Two years ago, girls who were protected at the East Samsun Girls' Home of Yaşar, where two children were killed in the fire, are laid down in their beds because they lack sufficient bed capacity; children who are disabled, use drugs and need special care are held together with other children. Experts note that children who can adapt to healthy social life, who continue to study, are held together with children who require special care, with negative consequences. In general, the same problems and challenges occur in many dorms, not just at the Samsun Nursing Home. Physical inadequacies in foster homes prevent healthy development of children living in dorms. The state is responsible for caring, protecting, and rehabilitating these children, either homeless or in need of care. Even the most basic human rights of children are not granted in these homes. Physical inadequacies in dorms have a negative effect on children's spiritual development. The newly established Ministry of Family and Social Policy, with the No. 633, has not been involved in a study of improving the opportunities of foster homes since it began. According to the State Council's report on foster homes, services in foster homes are messy. According to the report, there are no private institutions for juvenile delinquents. Children who have committed crimes because of this situation remain together with children who have not committed them. Other children who need protection and are brought into the community are extremely anxious to stay with children who have committed theft, fraud, pickpocketing, and even murder. The number of children fleeing foster homes is very high. There is no effective study of the decline of this number and the finding of runaway children and providing housing in the dorms again. In order to identify and address problems in foster homes, we respectfully submit that a research commission shall be established under Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of our Civil Code. [[40s.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] 13) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, in natural disasters, after the earthquake, the natural phenomenon that causes the most damage to the region is the flood, causing loss of life and property. In our Thracian region, there was also a great flood of pre-season rains. In addition to rainwaters, many houses and businesses in Thrace were damaged, roads and bridges were torn to pieces as a result of the flood of streams. Therefore, it is of great importance to have extensive work done to minimize the loss of lives and goods that will occur as a result of such natural disasters, to bring out flood maps, to weigh in on the reforms of streams and streams. Particularly because of the rapidly growing warped industrialization in our Thrace region and the blocking of the waste of factories in this region, the floods occur after a severe rainstorm, causing major disasters. In particular, recently, for the purpose of taking human life, housing, narrowing creek beds, building roads, and covering creek beds have caused the streams to flood in the tiniest amount of rain. To prevent this, the reforms of streams and streams must be weighed down. They have the benefits of preventing flood raids at first, preventing rainwaters from damaging the river section, making sure that the streambed is cleaned from its source to its mouth, preventing it from blocking the creek bed and the mouth. Therefore, necessary measures must be taken to ensure that there are no more destructions or casualties. Because such natural disasters will repeat with certain periods, and those who live in a protected area will survive these disasters with less damage. If not, the effects of destruction can only be seen when the work is too late. As a result of the flood in Thrace, the floodwaters caused four of our citizens to lose their lives as a result of the flooding of the streams caused heavy damage to their home, their workplaces. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104, 105 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkish National Assembly's Institution, in order to ensure that more lives and property are not lost, so that problems can be determined and find the necessary solutions. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] 11) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Erzincan]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 22) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 23) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Commission on the Equality of Women's Opportunities and Human Rights Review also has a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (February 2nd 2015) at 18 p.m. of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office. I'd like them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 00. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 27/1/2015 (Today). Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Nationalist Movement Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group The agenda's Law Charter No. 653, which is part of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," shall be ranked in the fifth place and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this. 27/1/2015 Tuesday (today) talks on the agenda of "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" Wednesday's merger of 28/1/2015, where verbal questions are not discussed, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of the Law of 653 rows, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form. It's recommended. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 5/4/2012, I propose that the General Assembly be taken directly into the agenda of Article 37 of the Civil Code, as it is not discussed in the commission within 45 days of "Accession of Non-paying Citizens by Electricity, Water, Gas and Other Fuel Expensions by State." 15/1/2015 Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0010par0267	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we offered this law. The main commission is the Plan and Budget, the back commission, the Family, Health, Social Affairs Commission, but for some reason, our opposition's legal proposals are not on the table. That's why we've asked him to be put on the agenda because he's expired. I'll explain this, but first, I want to celebrate here the defeat of ISIS, DAİSK, and Kobani, after the resistance to Kobani, which will be an epic event in history. Again, I salute the arrival of the sister party in Greece, and I want to say that our people are not unopposed, and that the sister party Democratic Party of Peoples is preparing for elections in Turkey as the address of the same hope on this matter. Now, the bottom line of our law proposal, friends, is that families who are under the poverty line, who have no power, whose economic status is not affordable, are under the minimum wage of poverty, to ensure that the state will pay for some of the costs of electricity, water, natural gas and other fuel, and that the economy is melting every day in the exploitation wheel. To fulfill the need to become a social state, to pass from the state of alms to the social state, in order to maintain this basic life in accordance with the rights of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 2, 5 and 41, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, to ensure that our people be saved from coal traders in the winter temperatures, in the snow and in the freezing temperatures -- you know, coal bags are now free, always made of stone -- in order to keep them healthy. It's a two-point offer. In this proposal, we are describing a commission to be set up in one, cities and districts, a healthy post-data to make these findings; and in the second joke, we propose that a social rights board be established -- a social rights board on this issue -- is to be formed from both local government and local government and civil society. So the system we're proposing is the need to be a social government. Why am I saying this? Believe me, look, it's a shipment that just came to me. When I opened this cargo, I came across an interesting letter, friends, this letter, this letter. I also looked inside the letter, there's 20 liras, there's 8 cents, there's 4 dollars. Now, look, a retired officer writes, "Mr. Kaplan, I'm a 68-year-old boy, I'm getting a pension. I'm getting a 2.3 percent raise in 2015; I sent them all away." Now, the government is very proud of it, and I've sent my first raise, so please be the middleman, and the ruling party has 312 MPs, each of which is eight cents, and I'd like to distribute my first raise. I mean, he says don't put the pensioner on so unfairly, he says don't make fun of us. So, Lütfi lad... I won't say uncle, because I'm a retired boy. Now, I looked at the money he sent -- wherever he got the pennies -- how am I supposed to give you the eight cents, fellas? Come, relieve me of this burden.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0011par0273	Keep it.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0010par0274	Look, there's something about being a social government. If you raise $24 in pensions, how do people get warmed up, how do they make a living, how do they live? The poverty limit is $1.205, $1.205. Now, I've carried out this mission, and I've got eight cents for every deputy, and he can come and get it, but we need to get this social government going, people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It was a really stunning letter and cargo, I'd like to offer your attention. And for the vote, yes, we have another speaker. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit01spe0012par0280	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0012par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the motion to raise the proposal directly on the agenda of the law, Demir Çelik is now a member of parliament who has asked for a statement on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0013par0005	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you my thoughts on the matter by greeting you on behalf of myself with respect and love. We're discussing the state's proposal for the state to pay the price of electricity, natural gas and water for people who are under duress, and we're talking. The social state, language, religion, race, religion, belief, whatever it may be, is responsible for creating and producing all the conditions for its citizen's housing, feeding, and sustaining life. This is worth examining, whether the state of the Republic of Turkey, when it was in its duty to become a social state, is close to these features or not. In the state of the Republic of Turkey, the law is meaningful and valuable in the fact that the minimum wage is $980 for the price of $1,280, and that all pensioners still receive about 800 lira pensions, including the poverty limit at around $4,000. First of all, it is necessary for the government to immediately end its minimum wage application as an unscheduled task, to raise the monthly salary to at least $4,000 in all employees, but also to have the lowest pension among pensioners over $2,000. Is it possible? It's possible. If we were a state of law that stimulates war, plunder, plunder, exploitation, corruption, theft, not education, health, human conditions, access, social sensitivity, it would be possible, but in a state where authoritarianism is being transformed into a power and capital-saving device, which is getting further and further away from the norms of the legal state. Therefore, it is necessary to remove all 5 million of our friends who have been sentenced to living on minimum wage from the victim of subcontractorship, to restore them to their collective contract, to their employee position, which is subject to the strike, and to pay them at least 4,000 lira. Our pensioners, many of our country's tens of years' worth, have been retired from the SEC, BUG-KUR, or Retired Ark, and have spent decades on their men, their women, on national values, while today they have been detained from social activities, health access problems, lack of access, lack of access to their artistic, scientific activities, leaving themselves to rot in the four walls or coffeehouse corners of their home. It's the law's job to get rid of this shame. Therefore, the lowest pension must be crowned with around 2,000s, a number above the hunger limit. The law state, the social state, is also a matter that must be fulfilled by the state for human rights to live in housing, nutrition and security. Many of our pensioners still have no home to worry about, and they face the condition of paying rent on their salary below the age of hunger. This is like the defeat of those who have a sense of comparison to the spirit of the 21st century, in Kobani, in Rojava, in the wild and unclean war they have created, if there is humanity in Kobani, if there is peace and freedom, without leaving our peace and freedom to the sovereign mind. I salute you, all of you, that a country where the oppressed, the poor, the workers, will live in peace, free together, the Democratic Party of Peoples will be carried out by society.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0014par0010	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the 3rd ranked Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the fourth place between the Republic of Turkey and the Kingdom of Jordan, where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food Law Amendments and the Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 653 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP who has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0015par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group to change the Law on Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law, which is being held at 653 rows. I salute your high council. The legislators' bill is designed to regulate the establishment and provisions of law-enforcement units with no legal status. It is mandatory, but late and incomplete, that the law should be passed in such a manner. Despite its shortcomings in the bill, the manufacturer's troops are demanding that this law be passed immediately. In drafting the bill, the Constitutional Court's decision on the legal status of the manufacturer's troops was effective. The Constitutional Court stipulates that a law must be made again after the annulment of Law No. 11/6/2010 and 5996. The Constitutional Court's annulment was issued on 7/11/2013 and on 288814. Now, I want to say here: Look, this law is being discussed today and it's being said that its publication will take effect in the history of the date of the Constitutional Court, which is a year after the cancellation of the Constitutional Court, and now we are at the end of January 2015. So, I would like to state to the government and ruling party group who have drawn up this law, that this is a lack of seriousness; is it that after a year after the Constitutional Court's annulment, the government or the Ministry could not make this preparation to enforce the law, which you bring after that time has passed? It's a lack of seriousness. I'd also like to point out that it's about the law: I'm going to talk in a few sentences about the problems of veterinary physicians who serve the industry, especially animal health. In recent years, some professions have been given special raises to their salaries, while the exception of veterinary physicians who serve in very difficult conditions for public health -- infectious animal disease -- is incompatible with the concept of justice. In all difficult environmental conditions and in dealing with diseases, the actual share of the rights of veterinary physicians who are at risk with Social Security Law 5510 has been removed from their hands, which has been a mismanagement; this error must be corrected as soon as possible. In particular, under very difficult circumstances, the loss of the rights of more than 6,000 free vets who provide health care and artificial seeding to this sector to the most remote part of our country should be considered. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, speaking of which, I would like to stress in particular: You know, hundreds, thousands of messages are coming to MPs' cell phones and e-mail addresses of the ruling party. What is required in these messages? There are vets, food engineers, agricultural engineers, water products engineers and technicians in this country. This is the claim of our friends that Mr. Minister of Agriculture, in a television speech or a statement, took 6,500 staff and claimed to take these engineers and our technicians, but did not take them, and that our friends have entered into expectation. These demands must be met at once. Mr. Minister and Mr. Government, I'm speaking to you: Prime Minister of the period Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, current Prime Minister Davutoglu, concerned ministers and government officials are always bragging about opening a university when they cross the microphones. Now, if you don't make a plan right, if you don't do it right, you're gonna put people in trouble. They go to schools -- for example, agriculture schools, hundreds of agricultural schools -- where strange people of that Anatolian go to study, with the scarce means of their families. After they're gone, these kids, these kids, they're looking for a place where they can take over. Now, since you, as the government, have not found an area to open the way for these young people, we've been on television, or we've opened so many schools in the rally squares, we've opened so many universities, in our time we've had these... what happened? All the kids who came out of there today are looking for work and money. He's coming to you, too, Mr. Secretary. He's coming to the ruling party's MPs. Isn't that a shame for our young people? They become unhappy when they are not able to fulfill their expectations when they are young, when they are unable to find the place where they can serve in order to give them the right to their education. These are waiting to be appointed. Of course, you have this kind of comfort, and I'm telling the government and the ruling party members: your job is easy; you hire your children, your relatives, your associates, from special staffs under the name of the VIP staff, so there are thousands of examples at this point. You're not satisfied with this, you're able to spend 5-6 billion dollars in private institutions of the state, but there are thousands of unemployed young people in this country who are struggling with work, who have borrowed money from their parents to their right, who have taken credit, who have been worried about getting their child educated for five years, who have been unable to get a job, who can't afford a girl, so don't think of it as a populist expression. Go worry about a problem for those unemployed young people. Who's gonna figure this out? I mean, can that be an understanding? I mean, it may not be your problem, it may not be your relatives' problems, you can hire them from the special staff, but come to the children of the nation's children, get into KPSS in winter... The Prime Minister announced a package last week called competitive conditions and transparency. What kind of package is this, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister? The strange guru's child, the poor poor man's child, will compete, they will run under hard conditions, they will winter in the snow, he can't appoint engineers, teachers, architects, young people will run, they will compete, they will compete, they will again be forced to reach the goal, but AKP supporters, their ministers, MP children, will be assigned to special staffs without any competition. It's a shame, it's a sin. It's a shame about this country. That's a shame for people. I think these should be well spent. When you use the country's resources correctly, there must be enough work and vaccine for everyone in this country. You've been talking about transparency for three months; we've been asking about the council for four months, we're asking questions, we're saying: "How much money has been spent on this waste palace, this sacred palace, what is spent, how many trillions, quadrillion dollars have been spent, what allowance has it been given, what resources of the escaped palace been transferred here?" One of them says, "It's 2 quadrillion," and one of them goes out and explains it, and one of them goes out and says, "8 quadrillion." So, I'm saying it because the Minister is interested in us, and so is the Minister. They hold it, and they import 200 trucks of trees from Germany, from the maple tree that grows in this country to its lime, to its acacia, and they give it to Germany. They bring in granite, special granites, special glasses, these are... Dear government and valued lawmakers, look, we have citizens in this country who are waiting for work, waiting for food. The bride, until she wastes these resources, until she spends it on luxury, I'm telling you clearly that the money spent on that runaway palace -- one per cent, even 1 per thousandth of it, if you assign these unassignable agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinarians -- would be less than that, and it would contribute to this country's agriculture. Today agriculture and livestock are crying blood, our farmer's crying blood, agriculture is going backwards every day. So, we're not gonna see this, or we're just gonna ignore it? When our nation is suffering this hardship, when millions of farmers are suffering this distress, when there are people waiting to be appointed, we're going to spend the day with our salt dry, and we're going to make promises on TVs and microphones, and we're going to preach to people, and we're going to give advice. [[!]] Today, farmland in Turkey has decreased by 3.5 million hectares in the last ten years. So, when our Minister of Agriculture gets to the microphone, he's going to come out a little bit later, and he's going to say, "This is how much loans were given in 2002, in our period -- he's going to get statistics -- in 2002, imports were, exports were this. The situation our farmers are in today is obvious. Our farmers are crying blood, our farmers are in debt. Today, Mr. President has made the situation clear for the farmers of Turkey in the Parliament group. In this regard, agriculture, which is one of the country's most important resources, should be united in the problems of our farmers. The future in the land is the farmer who instils the soul of existence into the earth, our farmers. It's our farmers who are proud to serve their nation with their callous hands, with their sunlit faces, and with their sad faces, and with their sad looks, and with their dayly hopes. He is our peasant, our farmer, who now sips tea in a gloomy mood in the village coffee; his issues are heavy, and we know these issues as MHP. There is a shortage of brothers and sisters in their homes who are concerned about their land debts, and this year's blend, who have heard about the heartache of their debt, and we understand it as an MHP. Wherever he lives, wherever he earns his living, we see all of our farmers' common and similar complaints as MHP, we watch and try to come up with a solution. The big bread will be from most of the dough, but today the dough is small, the bread is scarce. In the heat of the summer, the hilts of our brothers and sisters, our farmers, our peasants, despite all their hard work and efforts, are completely empty in their pockets. If he were born a goat in a tree, he would have run out of grass in the plain. It is a proverb that is constantly whispered to our ears. Today, however, the government and the ministry have failed this proverb because even the field of reform has been built. Our farmers' provisions are being stolen, their lawful earnings stolen, and whatever they have in their hands is being taken away. That is not true or just. We know the farmer's barn is at the end of his plow. The farmer's heart beats in his field, but even though the plow runs, the barn is empty, and the plow is plowed, and the mibzer is planted, but the barn is dry. Our farmers are troubled, sighing deeply, sighing deeply. Even if our farmers produce it, it's in debt, and if it does, it doesn't pay. Our farmer takes out loans and loans and interest. Twelve months of the year is the zemher for our farmer, twelve months of the year is the trouble and loss for our farmer. As you know, the rotten wood will never hold nails, nor will the mill ever come back with water. Therefore, our farmers will not be laughed at by false, crippled, disorderly, incoherent, sloppy and insincere policies, nor will their misery end. The AKP, which entered its thirteenth year, abandoned our farmer to solitude, forgot mercilessly, locked him in the cellar of poverty and misery. Today, there is sadness in villages. The unrest, lack of livelihood, lack of income, enormous problems, burdens of debt have been placed in every village, every village, every village. The tractors are working for nothing. What's left of that? The harvested with harvesters will be delivered to loan sharks, brokers, farm loans co-ops and banks again. This painting is a blind stalemate, a vicious cycle. The only thing left of the seeds scattered by the feed is the handle. And the gardens and the treasuries, and the abundance of the gardens, are devoid of all joy. AKP has failed the farmer, AKP has turned its back on the farmer. As for the fugitive and the dark palace, the network of robberies that swing trillions and store millions of dollars in shoe boxes, when it comes to farmers, let the earth feed you. Now, I share these comparisons with you, and I offer to all of us, to all of us, the scorching and agony of our farmers. Mr. Secretary, as he talks with paintings and graphics, here's a table: 1.7 kilograms of diesel in 2002 with 3.3 kilograms of wheat, while 6.7 kilograms in 2013 and 1 litre of diesel in 2014 with 5.22 kilograms of wheat. In 2002, 1 litre of diesel fell to 4.3 kilograms of corn, while 7.27 kilograms in 2013 and 1 litre of diesel in 2014. In 2002, 1.14 kilograms of cotton were 1 litre diesel, while 3.3 kilograms in 2013 were barely equal to 1 litre of mazota. Whether you make these comparisons in barley or make them in beets, make them in rice, make them in chickpeas, make them in potatoes, make them in onions, make them in sunflowers, make them in tobacco, and the result will be roughly the same. The conclusion is that the gas bill used by our farmer has increased year by year, and the input costs have increased to worrying points. The farmer's real gain has been reduced, his poverty has increased, as a result, his hard work and capital have been burdened on the cat. In 2002, 600 grams of wheat corresponded to 1 kilogram of fertilizer, and now 1.1 kilogram of wheat corresponds to 1 kilogram of fertilizer. In 2002, 700 grams of corn and 1 kilogram of fertilizer were purchased, while now 1 kilogram of corn and 1 kilogram of fertilizer were available. From 2002 to 2014, diesel prices were four times higher, fertilizer prices nine times higher, electricity costs three times higher. It is understood from the developments in which subsidiary distribution companies, unable to meet their lost target, will file additional fugitive bills for our citizens, our farmers, who pay their bills regularly. Again, I'll tell you this -- these electric companies and companies that you've given to the supporting distribution companies -- have darkened Turkey on this winter's day, especially Adana, and this process continues. This painting is officially bankrupt, against incredible increases in input costs, the price of wheat compared to 2002 is 2.7; the price of corn is 2.4; the price of sunflower is 2.6; the price of dried beans is 2.5; the price of cotton is only 1.5 times higher. Now, speaking of the language that he once understood to the ruling mind that loved his account, one bagel in 2002 with 600 grams of wheat, and one bagel in 2015 with 1.2 kilograms of wheat. According to the numbers, the statement proposed by AKP is different from the top to bottom. Where the AKP is looking, there are no farmers. The farmer's name is not read in the AKP's language; he is a farmer who loses; he is our total nation that suffers loss and loss. According to 2007, the amount of loans used by our farmers -- and you leave 2002 -- increased to 296 per cent in 2014 and reached 39 quadrillion 600 trillion liras. Sadly, the repayment of debts was not easy, but with an increase of 366 per cent, the amount of debt of 1 quadrillion and 366 trillion dollars burned our farmer to the ground. Dear lawmakers, our country now imports many agricultural products, much less exports. Our farmers, whose crops are left in the field, whose hopes have been lost by disasters, have suffered a great deal of hardship, and their losses are not met. It's the government's conscience to listen to the cries of farmers who can't get help and support for their losses that don't find 40 per cent of their total wealth. The employment in society has been reduced. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In Davos, Mr. Prime Minister, in Ethiopia, in Djibouti, in Somalia, don't go far, the victims are here, I say, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0016par0072	Thank you. Now, it's up to Ramadan Kerim Özkan, Burdur MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0017par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have pledged to express our views on the Republican People's Party Group over Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law Amendments and the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission Report. Before we pass the law, Mr. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, we need to have a large talk about this staff business at the Ministry. Our Minister has been throwing the ball for months. Of course, we're not critical about some things, we're congratulating, but there's no need to throw the ball, any goal that we can score will be in our favor of Turkey. Today, you need to explain the employment, staff work, the number you're going to give to our young people in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. So many universities have opened throughout Turkey, agricultural universities have opened, economic trade sciences have opened, veterinary schools have opened. These were necessary, the students were raised, our parents vacuumed their hair, Turkey went public, but the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is a staff... We've got openings all over Turkey. Turkey is waiting for an agricultural engineer, Turkey's animalism is waiting for a vet, a vet waiting for a vet. Our consumers, our consumers, our consumers, they want food engineers, they want water products engineers, they want technicians. We have so many trained employees, when are we going to assign them? These people were raised, these families were screaming. Families are calling, they're coming to you, they're coming to the ruling MPs, they're coming to us. This is what we face every day in our messages, in our tweets, on our Facebook pages. These are in the council corridors, these are in your rooms, in the ruling lawmakers, in the commissioner's office. You need to answer all of this. What did the Minister of Finance say, will he or won't he? What did the Department of Agriculture say, how many people are we going to hire? Let's make this clear here, while this law is being discussed, and let our people take a breath of peace. Besides, I have a question I'd like to ask the Minister. We opened these schools out of necessity, and we opened them in Burdur. Children graduate, every graduate vet asks us for a job because we're vets, and the private sector doesn't respond. You're interviewing the private sector. Since we have food controls, we have municipalities, other ministries, the Ministry of National Defense, the Navy, the Air Force, the Land Forces, many areas where vets will be employed, many areas where our food engineers will be employed, many areas where our agricultural engineers will be employed. They've got zootechnists in them, parks and gardeners, but there are, they don't stop counting. They're all on the house. We have accountants. We expect a clear answer from here today in terms of their employment. As for the law, Mr. Minister, lawmakers, we've had talks with NGOs, cattle breeders, village-Koop, beekeepers, sheep and goat breeders, our troops. In accordance with their demands, we have delivered to you certain matters, some of them you have accepted and some you have not accepted. We want to thank you for the changes you've accepted. These are for the benefit of our citizens, for the benefit of our country. First of all, it's not right to ask the permission of the county managers to open and close the branch office of the Union. We said, "You're right." We've put this under the Ministry's code, so hopefully we'll change that subject with the motion. Second: The election of the province's troops with 5,000, 7,000, 9,000 members leads to many challenges; we see it in PANKOBIRKIK, we see it in the breeding company, we see it in the village-Koop. They're trying to hold a convention in the stadiums. When we're all going to these conventions together, we're all going through that pain and suffering at those conventions. We have a proposal for the election of the province's troops to enter the commissioner's system, as was in the central union elections. If the lowest settlement is considered a village, elections can be made for each settlement with one delegates and one delegation account for the other 25 members. We say it's a good thing to sign up for the law. In the past years, even in western provinces, the number of members was very few, but now, every day, as if it had been indexed to the population, the number of members continued to increase, both in Haqari, and in Edirne, and in Tripoli, and in Sivas. Third: the ministry has been authorized to call a meeting of the city's troops or the general council of the central union a public benefit. In the future, it's arbitrary, it's losing the ability of the troops to become a productive NGO, and we have a custody opinion. Mr. President, during the previous prime minister's term, we will remove custody in this country. But now, a second custody is being carried out, and we get those powers from the Ministry of Agriculture. Where do the work of NGOs remain, the autonomy of NGOs? We demand that this matter be rectified. Fourth: 10/B-11-b/administrators have been forgotten, if you look at the law, the replacement member has been forgotten. We demand the same amount of replacement members as the number of members of the royal board. The right of peace to the board of directors should not be covered by the heads of the ceiling or the ceiling should be increased. The president must have an autonomy, it's in the House, it's in the departments, it's in different NGOs. They should be paid a separate fee. Of course, you give the board members a minimum wage assessment, and we accept that. This must be written in the form of minimum wage. The requirement to not be a board member of another unit of the same kind must be removed. Because I'm the president of the village co-op, I'm from the Republican People's Party, but I want to be on the board of cattle breeders in the province, or in the Village-Koop, or I want to be on the board of directors, and I want to be in the administration of Tarish. You're limiting my freedom to the law. This must not be restricted. These are warnings, suggestions. We're trying to make a solid law. ▪ The Union does some services. It is said to have been written or done instead of done that it will pave the way for service. We call it "substantiated," but it does or it does. We'll use vets, we'll use agricultural engineers, we'll use technicians, we'll use technicians, we'll use the location, we'll use geology engineers, accountants, we'll get people from different businesses to work in this service network. For example, a Suni seedling. It should be said that instead it is written or done. In fact, it should be added to a new substance, which provides or provides animal service to its members. By setting the technical and financial standards of services needed by members of the Union, he should be able to obtain a service contract on their behalf, such as consulting services from consulting companies, artificial seeding, or nailing service, or cutting horns. These troops should be able to benefit from people who specialize in this area. It was also said that the service price, the most important financial pen of the troops, was. In this case -- you didn't accept it -- it also means that it may not be taken. So, I'm doing a service, and in return, we've asked that this service price be used instead of affordable, but this opinion of yours... we'll offer it to you with a motion. Appreciation is for your high council. The method of appointing delegates for the Central Union has been abandoned; problems may arise, often change. That's why we think it should be clear with the law. The Ministry's control authority was predicted to be done through personnel outside of inspectors or controllers. Thank you; you've taken out the word "personal" on that subject, and the competent inspectors and controllers will do it. We're waiting for the motion to change again. Because you have to give it to your people. Investigators are competent in this matter, they should be able to control it. The central union is supposed to oversee the province's troops through its own audit boards. There are objections about that, too. The troops must be inspected by the freelancers, not by themselves. In the European acquisitor, this issue is made by public auditors -- public auditors. I warn him from here; otherwise, civil will will go to the Constitutional Court. I'd like to share this problem with you. Again, the troops have been authorized to oversee the troops who give loans. A bank union authorises it. Bank A is a private bank. How can this control the unit? We're authorizing it. The audit of the troops can't be carried out, but trade law should apply in late or unrefundable loan payments. A company that has bought, the Association of Multitude Beef Growers, the Village-Koop, or the Association of Goat Growers, financed by the Bee Association A bank, says that the bank can oversee its control. You have to make it clear to them. This audit would be wrong, but the Ministry should be overseeing it. The establishment of the Union by the permission of the Ministry should be highlighted if they can work without further permission. Here's what's happening: the ministry allows, we go -- 3,000 people, 2,000 people -- mayor, you take my daughter, you take my daughter-in-law, you take my neighbor, you take my driver. In order to avoid such problems in cities, towns, towns, the Ministry must register this authority. A work permit must be highlighted with the permission of the ministry, followed by a new permit. It gives the troops autonomy. The Union is leaving, opening a branch somewhere, opening a branch, sir, and I won't let you. The mayors, the mayor of the town, or the mayor of the town are pushing you. To prevent that, he has to go through the Ministry's code. That authority, brother, is in the Ministry. Ministry: I give this license, municipalities cannot interfere. Mr. Secretary, we have some international bilateral agreements. In these agreements -- we are a land of agriculture and livestock, we have a land of paradise, a land of land, of streams, of foothills; in this country everything is produced, we lack -- other countries impose on us. But, please, we don't want to see walnuts, almonds, sir, lettuce, parsley, tomatoes, oranges, apples, we don't want to see bananas in our country. The resources of this country are sufficient. These bilateral agreements shouldn't bind us and there's nothing about agricultural products -- we don't lack because we have everything -- shouldn't be taken from the outside. We know you have your support. Whether it's the language of this bench or not. I said put it down here with the ground, and the rest is a game. But you laughed. You take care of the ground, you take care of the sheep. We said, "Take care of our plains and plateaus in the Republic of Turkey." We've got the Earth Protection Act out, but now the land is not protected again. The first-class farmland -- the fugitive starts from the palace, everywhere -- construction. This is wrong. Last time we had a trip to Oman with our friends. There was also a palace built, but Oman -- a small state -- went and built his palace somewhere on the mountain, somewhere on the slope -- carved rocks in the mountain -- to an unused farmland. But we came and cut down millions of trees and built a palace in Turkey's liver. We build supermarkets in Turkey's lungs, building buildings. It's all wrong. The land must be protected, the water must be protected. So you've disregarded our warnings and suggestions on this matter. You're now supporting the shepherd for 8,000 liras. Very good, congratulations. You're wearing shepherd's shutters, you're wearing shutters, and you guys are no good at wearing shutters. Mr. President wore it in the referendum, and Mr. Secretary wore it. This shutters are the shepherd's confidant, his companion, his comforter, his bed. There's no way to wear a shutters; we told you to keep an eye on production, sheep, goats, but you didn't. You're looking for a shepherd today. I'll give you $8,000, I'll tip you, I'll pay you for nothing. The rain's over, it's no use holding an umbrella anymore, we're wet. So continue your work, but do right. We're giving them reform money, 100 liras per acre. How many mera, how many mera are being rehabilitated, who's doing the reforming? You're gonna have to check this out. Who's taking advantage of them? There's support, there's 100 pens. 100 pens support agricultural equipment and machinery. We have, we have, we have, we have, we have, these supports... the citizen tells us: "Take care of our product, keep our oranges, keep our apples, keep our hash, keep our wheat, keep our meat, keep our milk." Now, you've got projects; you've got the East Anatolia Project, you've got the Southeast Anatolia Project, you've got the Iconian Project -- Central Anatolia -- there's the East Black Sea Project. Friends, there are not only five regions of this country, but there are more Mediterranean regions, there are Aegean, there are Marmara, there are Thrace. Our producers here are screaming, and you're supporting $350 per cow in Eastern and Southeast Asia Minor, and he says, "What's my fault? What's my fault?" He says, "You're supporting the ice money for $150, what's my fault?" Doesn't Burdur produce, Isparta produces, doesn't Antalya produce, doesn't Denizli produce, Balıkesir produces, Çanakkale produces, Tracia produces, Edirne doesn't? I mean, why don't we just hold the hands of these manufacturers? So you're giving 350 lira there, but our citizen on this side is feeding him hay, and our citizen on this side is feeding him bait. Look, we've had a drought this year -- in the future, I'm warning from here, I'm suggesting -- there's a drought. Fig supports, shelter supports, corn wipe supports are down the drain. You're giving me diesel support. A field rotates with at least five liters of diesel, but you give one litre of diesel money, and I give you diesel support. Our citizens want a discount on mazotta; they want the mazotta not to be taken, they want the VAT to not be taken. He's using electricity in the irrigation. The biggest input in agriculture is fertilizer, medicine, electricity. In agricultural irrigation, we've been telling the bride to withdraw VAT from 18 per cent to 1. We've been saying this for years, and you've never done that. In most places, in the Inner Anatolia, in the West, in many places, our citizens now drain water with drilling. In the past, he drew water from 18 meters, from 20 meters, and the water that is now being used escaped from the drought. From 160 meters, from 150 meters, from 80 meters, water comes out. These things come out of energy, they can't beat energy money. And you need to warn the Department of Energy on behalf of agriculture. The Department of Energy privatized it in my area. There is a company in Isparta, Antalya, the Mediterranean region, in the Western Mediterranean Sea, called the CLK. This sent a two-month bill; it didn't take a month, it didn't take 15 days, it sent a two-month bill. The bills are unpayable... Our elders are screaming. People are stressed out. Look, a stressed-out citizen of our Vice President's advisor recently doesn't sit where you say he has a gun, and he doesn't sit where you say he is. He honks at the red light, and when you say what, he turns and kills. It's because of stress, because of economic difficulties. There's a lot going on in the economy. You've devised an action plan called "We're going to increase the village population." My brother, the peasant population... now the peasant wants to be satisfied in the land where he was born, so he wants you to give him energy discounts, he wants gas discounts, he wants support for his products. So this support shouldn't be limited to just one area, the source should be transferred here more. So random sources are being transmitted, these resources are not being used properly. Regarding this law, look, the Constitutional Court sent us this law. You've waited 14 months, but from that, the production troops, the livestock breeding troops, the bee troops, the buffalo troops, the sheep goat troops were victimised. You give back-up, the support doesn't come through. These troops were getting bonuses, and he didn't get the bonus. These NGOs employ accountants, vets, farm engineers; they have expenses; they contribute by 1%. You need to protect these, too. What do we say? NGOs must be kept alive; NGOs are the voice of citizens in the Republic of Turkey; they serve them. That's why these troops need to be protected. Again, my dear friends, we're making a three-cent increase in fertilizer and mazotta, we're saying we've increased support, but there's a raise coming up behind it. So we take what we put in the citizen's right pocket from his left pocket as a government. You need to give this a design. You've done Basin-based projects, it's good work, but you haven't done any work. Basin-based, for example, where is my Burdurk brand? It's a carrot. What kind of brand? It's a tomato. What kind of brand? Anisenda brand, hash brand. You need to provide additional support for these products in order for the citizen to increase that production. It concerns the Ministry of Industry, beets, but our sugar factories used to campaign for seven months, eight months, and now they're running out of campaigns in 60 days and 50 days. Don't say sugar beets. The beets employ at least 250 sectors; they employ the trucker; they employ the trucker; they employ the store; they employ the welder; they employ the welder; they employ the welder; the beet's tail is used in money, livestock; it has sugar; it has honey; it has fruit; it has industrial products. You didn't make him attractive either, so he says with 5060 days of campaigning, the campaign is over. And in that direction, you have to take care of the sugar beets. Again, we have irrigation projects. In the irrigation projects, these additional drillings for our citizens have been very difficult for the State Waterworks. The citizen himself wants to open the drill, but the State Waterworks: Sir, the project manager will come and study. The citizen waits for water, its fruit grows, its diamonds grow, its pears grow, and with two three feet to dry on a vegetable branch, there is an opportunity to extract water from 20 feet [8 m], from 20 feet [10 m], and we put a barrier to that. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Village Affairs...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0018par0108	You've told me all about agriculture.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0017par0109	I can't help but be told, Mr. President. The problem with this agriculture is that the citizen is screaming.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0019par0110	We support you, Mr. Ramadan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0017par0111	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0020par0112	Go on.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0017par0113	If this supports the citizen... I mean, there's no loveless sex. If he produces citizens, we can sit here, we can work here if the citizen works. There's no mastering that citizen, the peasant, there's no service to the peasant. With these feelings, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0021par0116	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Halil Aksoy Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0022par0120	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the entire bill of law 653 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. Before we discuss the bill, I'd like to say a few words about the Kobani resistance that we experienced a historic victory. After a hundred and thirty-four days of resistance, Kobani was liberated today in spite of all fascists and barbarians and their supporters. The rescue of Kobani's declaration as a canton on the 2nd anniversary has been a source of great hope and joy for all Middle Eastern people, especially the Kurdish people. Kobani also declared to the world that autonomy in Rojava is strong enough to defend itself and that it cannot be destroyed by any force. I would like to greet all my comrades with great gratitude, especially our fallen martyrs, who were part of the Kobani resistance and wrote a great heroic epic. The heroic YPJ and YPG guerrillas who liberated Kobani have demonstrated that not only the Kurdish people, but all the peoples of the Middle East and the world are freedom and democracy fighters in Kobani. Again, I would like to thank the Southern Kurdistanns who fought along with the YPG and the YPJ guerrillas, the Turkish, Arab and European revolutionaries. Kobani became the center and symbol of human resistance, where hope is not lost, faith becomes a great will, and great success can be achieved with scarce possibilities. With this character, the Kobani resistance will continue to inspire all resistance, freedom and democracy, no matter where it is in the world from now on. I think Kobani's resistance and victory will be included in the history books of all nations. With these feelings and thoughts, I... Dear MPs, I'd like to celebrate here the SYRIZA Party, which has won a great success in the Greek elections. The winner of Greece is hope again. THE success of SYRISA has once again shown that workers, poor people, and revolutionaries are no longer doomed to this corrupt order, that it is possible to change and rebuild. Now is the time to multiply and promote that hope. From Europe to Turkey, from Latin America to the Middle East, from labor and from the left, the struggle and responsibility for building and carrying out this faith will be greater than ever. SYRIZA inspires it. With this consciousness, we celebrate again our friends with some heavy responsibility, and I wish you success on this difficult and honorable path. Again, yesterday was the anniversary of the massacre of Dear Journalist Ugur Mumcu. I'd like to honor those who have lost their lives in the Vedat Aydıns, Mehmet Sincars, Ape Moseses, Muammar Aksoys, Bahriye Trioks and all the unsolved murders we can't count. Dear lawmakers, the bill that we're talking about is to provide a number of shortcomings in the creation of growers' troops for rehabilitation by real or corporate breeders in order to act on the protection, rehabilitation, development, spread and marketing of animal gene resources. As it is known, this arrangement had previously been included in Veterinarian Services 5996, Plant Health, Food and Food Law, but was cancelled by the Constitutional Court due to its shortcomings and errors. Although regulations have been made in accordance with the grounds for the annulment of the Constitutional Court, the bill, in this case, is incomplete and has many flaws. The law state, which is stated in Article 2 of the Constitution, is a state based on law and action, based on human rights, protecting and strengthening these rights and freedoms, establishing a fair legal order in all areas, maintaining it, maintaining it, maintaining law safety in all its activities, conforming to the law and the Constitution, and its action and actions depend on independent judicial control. One of the basic principles of the legal state is specificity. According to this principle, legal regulations need to be clear, clear, understandable, and practical, so that there will be no pauses from both persons and management. It is also inevitable that public authorities will have protective measures against arbitrary practices. The principle of specificity is crucial in ensuring the legal security of individuals. However, we're looking at the need to redesign the bill by changing many provisions and declarations. In addition, the Commission has not applied directly or indirectly to the opinion of NGOs and other units as it tackles this bill. In accordance with the issues stated, the bill must also be re-examined, re-examined, and corrected by relevant institutions and organisations. Precious lawmakers are considered to be the source of 4,500 species of genes in the world and 40 animal species in order to meet the basic requirements of humans. More than 30 per cent of the specified races are at risk of extinction due to insufficient use. It is estimated that this will affect world agriculture negatively in the near future. Hence, a significant increase in efforts and efforts to preserve animal gene resources has been observed around the world in recent years. Most of the gene loss on earth occurs in plants, invertebrates, sea and fresh water fauna, reptiles, birds, and other wild animals, but the gene loss of livestock is also incalculable. Of the 2,944 races, including important domestic species in the world, 2.126 have been known to exist, and nearly 500 are at risk of extinction. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the European Zootechnical Federation co-founded the International Gene Resource Data Bank in 1987 in Germany. In 1990, three gene banks were established by the FAO for the purpose of freezing and hiding genetic material. Today, many official, private, and volunteer companies conduct numerous national, regional and international studies aimed at protecting animal gene resources. In almost every country in the world, especially developing countries, the demand for animal products is rapidly increasing due to growth and population growth. In order to meet the increasing demand, the efforts to increase the efficiency of animals are also becoming increasingly intense. These efforts are mostly intended to increase their efficiency through the rehabilitation of indigenous races, by hybridizing them with cultural races, and in many lands, as well as by highly productive cultures, because of their unique conditions in the country, the region and the region. For these reasons, variation is rapidly diminishing. Local races, however, have been created because of the special conditions of the environment, which they have been raised in for a hundred years, or even a thousand years, and have low efficiency, but have a unique quality of life, endurance, coherence, inadequate environments, and are able to reproduce and survive. The extinction of these races also means the destruction of their original qualities. It is also impossible to predict now which of these features will be needed for changes that may arise in the future. Furthermore, it is imperative that local races, which have no modern agriculture, cannot be assessed by cultural races, will not be destroyed because of their undisputed superiority over the economic integration of regions and regions. On the other hand, the potential superior qualities of indigenous races today unknown, undiscovered, or undetected can only be obtained if they are able to sustain their existence and can be offered in the ministry when necessary. Dear lawmakers, views on the protection of pet gene resources have changed significantly in recent years. In the beginning, it has been focused that for a genotype to be protected under threat of extinction, there should be a distinguishing feature that will allow the benefit/mass ratio to be positive. In recent years and at the point where it is appropriate for all genotypes or genotypes, which are now in danger of extinction, to be protected as far as possible. Due to the number of races under threat of extinction, we believe this approach is in place for the protection of variations. At this point, I'd like to point out that genetic variation can be effectively preserved in conservation herds, in large herds, more than in a breeder with no record of race properties. As I mentioned earlier, the first stage in determining gene resources to be protected in a country is the detection of genotypes and their assets. The next stage is naturally determined by all the properties of the existing genotypes. In Turkey, in the first twenty and thirty years of the republic, both state institutions and growers were working with almost all domestic cattle. Over time, to adapt to modern agriculture in agricultural production, local cattle race, culture race, and other indigenous races have been severely and erratically mixed with cattle, and many cattle species or species have been destroyed as a result. Some indigenous races, only found in hard-to-reach, closed-econceived mountain villages, face the threat of extinction. The basic approach to protecting domestic cattle genotypes in Turkey is to provide adequate samples of all indigenous races and to provide protection. See, 14 indigenous species or types of cattle have been destroyed so far, while six of them are in danger of extinction. Extinct species: Aleppo cattle, Çukurova cattle, Fourways cattle, Crimean cattle, Cypriot cattle, Seferihisar cattle, Caucasus cattle, Malakan cattle, Diyarbakır cattle, Montenegro cattle, Urga cattle, Kalmuk cattle, Elezgirt cattle, Karaisan cattle. For sheep, it's a little different than cattle. The growth of this species is mostly concentrated in areas where population density is low, for natural and cultural reasons, where modern agriculture cannot be applied or common. Thus, the crude agricultural quality of production continues. As a result of this production style, the lack of overall efficiency anxiety has not brought up an intensive hybridization practice in sheep over the last years. But recent developments indicate that hybridization will become much more common in the coming years. Sheep species are also in serious danger of decline. The work needed for races under threat or threat, especially the Gum race, must be initiated immediately. Two species of sheep have been wiped out by now -- paid sheep and China's Cross. Again, 14 species of sheep are in danger of extinction. The same is true of goats, and three species of goats are threatened with extinction. The number of buffaloes in Turkey is rapidly diminishing. Turkey's buffalo presence has been concentrated in some areas. It has not been possible to classify Turkish buffalo as specific races or types. Furthermore, the presence of wetlands in manda breeding is important. Therefore, it is also important to protect lakes, rivers, or wetlands in manda breeding grounds. Therefore, it is also important to protect lakes, rivers, or wetlands in the buffalo grow area. In agriculture, there is also a decrease in the number of horses in parallel with mechanization, but there are still areas in Turkey where the horse provides economic labour. It is not possible to separate native horses from specific races or types found in Turkey. Nevertheless, the public has small, well-made, and very tough horses that can be considered native. As with the hairy goat and the buffalo, it is necessary to act for protection, especially when the types are determined, and then to begin the prevention measures. Other than Gerze, Denizli, and naked necks, the identified domestic chicken and other species -- goose, duck, turkey -- cannot be mentioned, but ducks, geese, and turkeys have gained a special quality for themselves, as they have been raised in this country for many years. First, defined races and types must be protected and collected more detailed information about them. In addition, the geese, ducks, and turkeys may be considered domestics, and those who are worthy of protecting them should be identified and taken into the protection program. Anatolia is one of the major gene centers of the honey bee, which has a large area of spread across the world. In Turkey, various types of bees have emerged as a result of centuries of natural selection under different ecological conditions. This diversity has increased and continues to grow under the influence of growing traveling beekeeping in the country in recent years. Traveling beekeeping, however, carries with it the danger of the loss of pure populations. That is why it is imperative that genotypes be protected according to the biology of the bee by deciding that they are different from race or species based on identifying studies. The best solution for this purpose is the creation of isolated regions and the growing of defined genotypes around here. Mr. President, it's difficult to say that there has been a huge improvement in protection during the period that has passed since the debate on the protection of animal gene resources in Turkey. In today's construction, it is also understood that it is extremely difficult and even impossible to maintain adequate and successful efforts to protect the pet gene resources. The protection of gene resources is too important to leave to the good intentions and sacrifices of the institution, the institution, the establishment, the administrator, and the employees. In this sense, the establishment of growers and reforms is a very positive development. Therefore, the importance of the matter must be understood by all concerned environments, in the context of different sources of conservation. As stated in the beginning, the first step in protecting gene resources is to determine the current status of the domestic gene resources. In this context, the quantitative presence of new genotypes, which have been produced by hybridization with all domestic genotypes, but have adapted to the conditions they've been raised with, and the rate of change available, the spread area, the nutritional and growth conditions, the genetic and phenotypic variations of various features, the efficiency, the special properties, the tendency to hybridize with native and foreign genotypes, and the speed of the animal movement, and the state of animal health, in other words, are crucial to the development of these genotypes. In order for the comprehensive work to be carried out, important challenges must not be forgotten. However, the inventory study will not only protect animal gene resources, but will also allow the collection of a wide range of information that has been lacking in all areas of livestock for years, and a fundamental deficiency in this context. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0023par0154	Thank you. Now, it's the Ottoman Captain, Antalya MP who wants to speak for himself. Here you go, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0024par0158	Mr. President, the valued MPs are 82.5% of the glass greenhouses found in Turkey and 54 percent of the plastic greenhouses are in Antalya. About 30 percent of both oranges and pomegranates are produced in Antalya. Antalya is the capital of both greenhousery and pomegranate as well as agriculture, but has been the capital of natural disasters in recent years. Dear friends, the flood has struck Antalya again. And the waters of the city of Mavikent were filled, and the waters came in, and the waters came in, and they came in, because they could not flow into the sea. On Thursday (January 15th), we, the Republican People's Party of Antalya MPs, studied the situation in place of Kumluca, Finike, Demre and Kashāta, led by Mr. Deniz Baykal. We have seen the desperation of the partners of the servants, of Afyon to Antalya, and of the servants, and of the men of Deniz, and of the people of the sea: and we have made our petitions to be good. The village of Demre was in the water. I followed, and the water only withdrew 11 days later. There are 1,800 acres of greenhouses in the surrounding village, 1,500 acres damaged. If a 300 - meter tunnel had been built in the surrounding area, these waters would have been evacuated into the sea, and their greenhouses would not have flooded. There have been landslides in Kabash, Kumluca, Küzören village, and the village of Finike, Solek, still in some places. A dead body of one of our citizens was found 4km away in the lonely village of Finike. We wish God's mercy to our fellow citizens and his family's condolences. Dear friends, in 2001, at Yavuz Donat's corner, in Kumluca, from our country's vegetable warehouses. In fact, Kumluca is a printing press with Turkish liras, dollars, marks, but the printing press is flooded. Eight years passed, and in 2009 the printing press was flooded again; fourteen years passed, and in 2015 the printing press was flooded again. Dear friends, we've submitted a motion to investigate the Parliament about TARSIM. TARSIM (TARSIM) needs to be redesigned. Across Turkey, our farmers with agricultural insurance are 10%; Antalya is 15%. Even in Antalya, Antalya, the capital of agriculture, 85 percent of our farmers do not have agricultural insurance. In this parliamentary survey motion, we asked that the conditions to make an insurance policy on TARSEM be changed in favor of the farmer, the condition to be new to the greenhouses, that all vegetables and fruits planted in the greenhouse be insured along with the greenhouse during the season. Again, the normal insurance period in the citrus ends on January 31st. However, the harvest continues until 1 Marta, April 15th. Therefore, this insurance period must be extended by the end of the season. Dear friends, the losses of our farmers must be compensated, their victims must be compensated. Debts on agricultural and agricultural loan co-ops must be postponed. It's already been ten years since the price of tomatoes and oranges has been counted or stretched. Our farmer doesn't even have enough fertilizer, plastic, medicine, and prices are up three to four times. Dear friends, Antalya is a province that gives more to the state than it takes from the state. The state knows how to collect taxes, but it doesn't know how to spend money to prevent natural disasters in Antalya. Antalya is the third most visited city in the world in terms of tourism, Paris and London, followed by Antalya. But we used to have some cities like New York ahead of us. Now, in terms of tourism, like Antalya, I think we should protect such an important agricultural province as our eyeballs. So if the ruling party had done one percent of its efforts to take care of these four ministers, the rivers, streams, tea beds of Antalya would have been reformed; dams, ponds, and waves to the Bluevillet, 300m tunnels would have been built; and the surrounding creeks and tea beds would have been prevented from building houses and greenhouses; the water channels in Mavikent would have been cleaned and connected to the sea. Dear friends, we've spoken to the Deputy Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Director of State Water Affairs of Antalya, and we have made a promise that the 300-meter canal -- which will be evacuated to the sea -- will be built, and that the water canals in the Bluetown will also be cleared and flowing into the sea. TARSIM is to be insured by all farmers. Like GAP, DAP, an AP like KOP should be done with the Antalya project. With this Antalya project, rather than water-watering projects elsewhere, Antalya would need to be protected from water and taken care of the environment of Antalya, from stone furnaces and sand furnaces, to prevent the destruction of some of our trees, nature. So Antalya should not open a quarry as he wishes, but a different law should be enforced than other laws elsewhere. For example, now, recently, police and governorship have taken a precaution not to bring some people from Syria into the city. Why doesn't this sting? He's taking precautions to ensure city security against our outside tourists. So, such measures... to protect the environment, sir, and to protect these greenhouses, agriculture, tourism... Also, there are frequent power cuts in Antalya, and our people suffer a lot from these blackouts. Again, the new product and the new market problem can take place in the coming years. 30 per cent of tourism and exports in agriculture are done with Russia. A crisis in Russia can affect our tourism as well as our agriculture. Therefore, in our exports and in our crops in agriculture, our farmer's face should be made to smile by making new species, new markets and exports. He says to all our countrymen, "Get well soon," and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0025par0172	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, will speak for the government. Here you go, Mr. Eker. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the High Council, I salute you all. We are in the presence of the Grand Assembly with the draft of the Law on Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law. The reason this bill came here was because there were laws that had been passed since 1926, 10 laws in total. There were laws in 1926, 1928, 1954, 1957, 1971, 1973, 1986 and 2004. Of course, in harmony with the European Union, we made an arrangement, from field to table, as part of food safety, to all animalism, to all plant products and to all food-related legislation in 2010, which collected all under one law. We've also organized the laws that we passed in 2010, in fact, about animal rehabilitation. We put the same text in the 2001 Law, the first law that was passed in 1926, into the organisation and legislation on animal rehabilitation. It has not drawn any attention before, but it has taken the secondary legislation of our 2010 arrangement to the Supreme Court of State, and the Constitutional Court has cancelled the relevant articles. Therefore, we have brought this matter before the House with a bill so that we may be able to arrange the next matters of animal rehabilitation in accordance with a separate legal arrangement and the spirit of the general law. The issue here is the valuable lawmakers: the Central Union of Mutton Growers of Turkey is active in 160,000 members and 81 provinces, with 262,000 members of Turkey's breeder Goat Growers Central Union in 80 provinces, with 55,000 members of Turkey's Bee Growers Central Union in 79 counties, and the Central Union of Turkey's Handling Manda Growers is active in 23 counties. So in total, the organization of nearly 500,000 manufacturers and the duties and responsibilities of 263 units that are still active will be determined by this bill. There will be a correctional registration system open to the use of each unit, which will provide international recognition and monitoring, which will include the parent and its own efficiency, which will record them. Each animal in the registration system will be arranged, supplied with all kinds of animal inputs, and the breeding animal market will expand in this way. As a result, with this bill, the long-term study of rehabilitation programmes will be able to increase genetic capacity with what we call eclectic rehabilitation, e.g. e. e. e. artificial seeding, and more efficiency than the unit animal. In fact, it was 28 provinces, soy log registration status, currently in 81 provinces. And the prenup log is still in 81 provinces. Over the course of time, the total number of businesses registered to the family register and the prenup since 2002 has increased from 238 thousand to 955,000. The number of female cattle... and the number of female cattle registered to the foreroot and the bloodline... has increased from 933,000 to 7 million 118 thousand. Of course, the fact that such a large population has been recorded, has been taken into the foreroots and genealogical log, leading to the increase in the production of animal existence from each individual in Turkey. This is important. Of course, we also provided that some of our lawmakers have just expressed, for example, that we have done a lot of work on the development, rehabilitation of indigenous species, protection of these, as well. For example, many studies have been launched, including the collection, conservation, registration of other races, and further production of genetic material, including local species -- the source of genes, such as native land, or at work Anatolia -- and sharing the results of their production with economics, research institutions. We keep our native gene resources in three different ways in gene banks and in the breeder's hand, in livestock. In our six institutions, 13 races and three lines have been secured. They're still running diagnostics. Two: This is what we do in the hands of growers, so we say to the citizens -- let's record them, you preserve them, produce them, multiply them, and give you money for them. And that's how the protection of 24 races goes on in 25 provinces that we've started this way. We also created gene banks. Two gene banks have been established at the Lalahan Animal Center Research Institute, the other at the Gebze/de TÜBITAK MAM Biotechnology Institute, and are related to animalism. Here, five species -- cattle, buffalo, horse, sheep, and goat -- were frozen with about 90 thousand specimens in the 30 races. This can be preserved for hundreds of years. Furthermore, 61 domestic pets have been registered by the Register Committee so far. We've designed the national strategy and action plan, especially with its genetic resources, and in 2015, we're implementing a national strategy action plan for this animal gene source, and I'd like to share it in particular. In Turkey, which has an important biological diversity of about 700 species of fish related to the protection and registration of water products, we created the registrar's regulations to do registration studies in 2012. There are two national committees here. For the first time, four species have been registered. The water products gene bank and biotechnology center were also developed in Tripoli. We'll keep the water products here. Plant gene sources are the same. In 2005, we started the Small Head Animal Correctional Program in the People's Animal Correctional Programme. Between 2006-2010, we ran 500 growers in 13 counties with 80,000 head sheep and goats in 12 races, and we pay for them, of course. As of 2014, the project was developed in the hands of 6,500 growers in 60 counties in 28 races and about 1 million head animals, sheep and goats alone. The grower was paid $52 million for this job. The project also features 85 project leaders from 24 universities and 8 research institutes and 128 project technicians. We're doing another study on the Anatolian buffalo. We started this in eight counties in 2011. In 2014, we ran it at 3,618 growers in 16 cities with 25,000 head buffalo, 18 million payments. A total of 75m euros was supported in 2014 for the protection and rehabilitation of animal gene resources, and 76m euros will be paid in 2015. Of course, with these, our livestock has actually improved, and I'd like to share this with you in two sentences: we've raised the number of cattle, the number of cattle from 9 million to 14 million. We've increased the number of sheep from 25 million to 32 million. We've raised the number of goats from 6 million to 10 million. I'm not talking about the crusts. In total, there is a 33 per cent increase. But the production of milk from 8 million tons to 18 million tons, the production of chicken from about 700,000 tons to 1,750,000 tons, the production of eggs from 11.5 billion to 16.5 billion, the production of honey from 74,000 tons to 94,000 tonnes, and the production of water products to 233,000 tons. Together with this bill, if this bill is adopted by the Supreme Assembly, we will contribute to the more effective development of hundreds of thousands of growers working on it in Turkey, their organisation, the rehabilitation organisations, and the development of it under healthier conditions. I don't...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0026par0191	Tell me something about the staff. Let me tell you about the casts. Now, this year, in 2014, we had about 500 people. We demand 2,000 staff from the Treasury Department for 2015. And as soon as we get this from the Treasury Department, we're going to implement it right away, our colleagues... of course, the heart wants us to employ them all, but there's no way we can hire everyone at the Department of Agriculture, but by opening up jobs... and that's why these troops are important to him, because they're actually both important to him, and they're still employing our colleagues. Their growth in a healthy nature will also facilitate the employment of our colleagues. I give you all my regards, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0027par0195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mehmet Erdogan Adıyaman MP who asked for a word on his behalf. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0028par0199	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTI Group and myself on the draft of the Law on Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law. I salute you. Mr. President, this bill has been drafted by the Constitutional Court because the provision of production units in Veterinary Services 5996, Plant Health, Food and Food Law has been cancelled. Under the bill, the Constitutional Court's grounds for cancellation were taken into consideration and the establishment and provisions for the development of reformist troops. In Article 10 of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law No. 5996, it is estimated that real or legal persons can form organisations in the form of special law provisions for the purposes of animal gene protection, rehabilitation, development, spread and marketing, which can co-operate with and control the activities of these organisations in the same conditions as all kinds of tax and tuition exemptions established by the Co-operatives Act. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our colleagues, veterinary physicians, who will be actively involved in these studies, will continue their work in a selfless manner. From here, I especially thank all our vets, agriculture and animalism, food safety, the successful and selfless contributions to public health, services. It is known that white is a symbol of purity, honesty, righteousness, and virtue; it is a symbol of the abundance of the heart, tolerance and tolerance; it is the name of hygiene and purity. For those reasons, it's really hard to carry him. Carrying the white with dignity must be our most sacred legacy to future generations and our young. Only those with this white mind can understand the cost of the services of our colleagues, snow, summer, heat, day and night, without pre-payment. I salute the white apron on your back, the colleagues with white feelings in your heart, and the sacred whiteness of this profession. I'd like to express a special thank you to our colleague, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of myself and my colleagues, I would like to thank our Minister Mehdi Eker. Our country stands firm at the point of agriculture, by applying voluntary, decisive policies, to the 11th ranking on the world, to the 1st in the European Union, to the 1st in the 4th in the European Union, at $23.7 billion in agricultural revenues. We're proud, proud of our work, our work, our work, our work, our work, our work, our activities, our support, our hard work, our hard work, 62.7 billion dollars, but I believe that our farmers, our people, our veterinary engineers deserve more. When we graduated from İstanbul University Veterinary School in 1989, 250 vets were taken that year, no veterinary physicians were received until the AK PARTI powered, but the number of vets in the AK PARTI administration and with the support of our Minister was increased at the Ministry. Our desire is to increase it further. I thank you, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit02spe0029par0208	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 653. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the question-answer process will be done. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0030par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in Southeast and East Anatolia, support for the farmer usually depends on electricity, and as far as I can tell, you didn't transfer that money into the public account, it's in the Ministry's account, but there's no payment due to the debt of electricity. The Council of Ministers has made such a decision, but this Council of Ministers decision is against the law, as far as we know. So when you're bidding here, when you're privatizing, you're going to buy this, and you're not going to put debt on this condition; if you had, maybe this electricity administration would have been sold at higher prices. Wouldn't that constitute a crime of misdemeanor in the tender? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0031par0009	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0032par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is your Ministry's agricultural engineer, water products engineer, fishing technology engineer, food engineer, veterinary physician, technician and technician's employment program for 2015? Why has your ministry's demands so far been ignored? Is the Finance Department really telling the truth about this, or is your Ministry's applications not approved by the Treasury Department? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain that. Second: As known on December 30, 2014, several greenhouses were damaged due to snowfalls in Simav district of Kütahya Province. Does your Ministry work on paying the losses of our greenhouse farmers, delaying their debts and supplying low interest loans? I'd appreciate it if you could explain yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0033par0015	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0034par0017	Mr. President, thank you. We have a question for our Minister that may not be directly related to him, but whether it's the Minister of Economy, Minister of Commerce, Minister of Customs, Minister of Finance... now, this has to go, it has to come. What's going to happen to this citrus? There's 20 cents a pound, no land, no trucker can't go to Iraq; the trucker won't go to Iraq, and if they hire the truck that comes from there, they'll give it to him. A citrus tree grows in at least 15 years. Exports are 50 percent of the age of fruit and vegetables. I'm asking you, please, to let our Minister deal with this, what will he do, what will he do? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0035par0020	Thank you. Dear Honey...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0036par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a serious difference between the photo the Minister drew when he spoke and the reality of Turkey. The difference came for two reasons. First: Turkey has become a country that imports hay in the Minister's day. Second: food poisoning at a food dinner at the Ministry of Agriculture. This is a sign of low productivity and efficiency in agriculture. Tens of thousands of agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers and veterinarians and technicians are waiting in line to appoint them. Is the Minister aware that the low efficiency in the agriculture and animalism sector in Turkey, by not appointing them, is a factor? Secondly, according to the Minister's figures, everything in Turkey is rosenary. That could be true of big companies and supporters. For example, to whom are the facilities owned, rented, and for how much money are they rented? I'd appreciate it if he'd fill me in on that.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0037par0025	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0038par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, both in Turkey and in Kahramanmarash, our citizens in agriculture and livestock are in very bad shape right now. And that's because the inputs in agriculture and livestock are so high, plus that the citizens of this production are in a lot of trouble because they can't sell their products at the price they want. These farmers and our livestock-based citizens owe money to banks, especially the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans. Right now we have many phone calls, messages, and citizens who want to talk to us about it and come here and come all the way to Ankara. Do you plan to consolidate these problems, these debts? How do you propose to help agriculture and animalism go to better points? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0039par0030	Thank you. Mr. Right... there is no Mr. Right. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0040par0033	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, I've just spoken to you, and I'd like you to inform me of the failure of the CPS system in my district, Manisa. Since the CPS system hasn't been functioning properly, we've had farmers who haven't been able to get results from the CPS in over a month, and I got confirmation back a minute after we talked to you. I'd like to know what method, how this program was taken to the Department of Agriculture, and how you control whether this system works or not. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0041par0036	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Now -- Mr. Tanal -- I think he's gone out or in the future -- the issue of electricity debts is that the application is actually being paid to the citizens about him now -- if they deserve it -- because he's being stopped by the judicial decree. Mr. Light asked about the plan for purchases in 2015, especially for agricultural engineers and other technical staff purchases. I was actually on the stand earlier, and we've asked the Finance Ministry for 2,000 positions this year. In 2014, we had about 500 of our staff. Now, of course, it's about those possibilities, Mr. Kemalettin, you're the former chief of staff, you know them. They are therefore the size of the staff of the Finance Ministry and other relevant units. We'll make those purchases happen. About floods, heavy snowfalls, etc., natural disasters, you know, last year, in 2014, we made a decision to make a loan configuration, or rather a loan postponement, which was valid until the year 31 December, but we've been working on a detailed damage assessment in the region of Bursa, both in the Aegean, and in the region of the Mediterranean, in the Bursa. The problem there is that our detection is a cover of about 17,000 acres, not actually a greenhouse... unfortunately, if it were a greenhouse, it would already be covered by insurance, all of those risks are covered by insurance. We pay half of the insurance, but either our citizens occupy a piece of land that belongs to the treasury, or they don't make insurance because they're paying for it, or it's very simple where they're producing it, iptidai, it's doing it in a plastic stretch. And so, of course, insurance companies don't insure it, but they're our citizens. So we're, of course, making sure that they build structures that have what insurance requires. We're working on a special support system this year. So what we're going to tell our citizens is that we're going to have to do it this simple, plastic stretch, make it a proper greenhouse, and we're going to pay for some of it as support, and we're going to make it healthier, healthier, more affordable, so that we can do it that way. We're working on it. Of course, we still have to work on the loan delay, but all of these risks are covered by insurance. Now what we really want to do -- and you, and everybody, all the members of the House want this -- is that we actually want to do 100 percent of the insurance system, and we're giving 50 percent of the money for it, but here, for some cultural reasons, a little bit of desperation, a little bit of ignorance -- so those structures don't actually go into the insurance system. And as far as they're concerned, we're working on that with our economy-related Treasury Ministry and our relevant Finance Ministry, so as the ministry, we, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, are doing a detailed study of the disasters in this January 26 days, and I'll share it. It's about Mr. Halaman's condition of the narcissist, which, of course, he already said himself, because it needs to be made easier to market outside because it's a certain economic problem in the Russian Federation, which we see as a market country, which has affected some of the developments in the Middle East this year, and so on and so forth. In total, of course, the production of this citrus affects a certain amount of production. After all, I talked to our concerned friends, and I talked to the citruses. And our concerned ministers... you know, what can they do about it? Especially with the Ministry of Economics, the foreign trade jihad. Now, Mr. Honey has said two things about us. First of all, importing or exporting a product by itself is not really an indicator, but I'll tell you this: in 2014, Turkey exported 13,000 tons of hay, and it imported a thousand tons. I mean, he exported 13 times more than he imported. You wouldn't say that, for example...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0042par0045	Mr. Secretary, now, look... Now, look, let me finish, please. I've listened to you, but excuse me. You said something. I mean, you keep saying that. Now, look, that's not true. Because of this: once, the hay is not produced, after all, it is determined... that the citizen harvests memories, and in Turkey there are around 30 million tons of stems; 30 million tons. That's three times what Turkey needs, five times what Turkey needs. The point is, some of our citizens were alert in a region two years ago, picked it up, picked it up, and in some places they didn't get enough, so they tried to sell it at a high price. We said in the Kars-Ardahan region, so that it wouldn't land on the black market and citizens wouldn't be exposed at a high price, that, for example, it would cost a lot more to bring there from a neighbouring country, such as Georgia, at the cost of sending them there from Aydın, or, I don't know, I don't know, Central Anatolia. You imported it from Bulgaria, Mr. Secretary, from Bulgaria. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), Yo.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0043par0049	Isn't it about wheat, Mr. Secretary, please... that the wheat fields are narrowed and imported. Now, therefore, in any case, more exported than imported. Fix this first. It's not a measurement. If you do that, then I'll say, "That's completely demagogic. It's not a measurement. Turkey is now exporting nearly 1,600 euros to the world, and over the past decade, there has been a significant increase in the number of such products. That's not all. From 1,400-somethings to 1,500-somethings, that is 1,600. So when we look at its balance, Turkey is here, and it doesn't need it, and it doesn't have it, but it's not: it's a free trade country, so thousands of products can be imported, exported here. This is not because of poverty, poverty, or being condemned to it. It's no different in all the developed countries of the world. All developed countries import and export. It's not something that can be taken literally. Another thing Mr. Bal said...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0044par0052	I've got TIP, sir. WHO was sold to, who was rented to, how much, allies? No, there was no tender in Konya soon. There... You gave it away, sir? Sometimes you can rent a piece of land for a year if you don't run it by contract production and so forth, to come and produce seeds. So I'll get you their names and so on, whatever you want them to be. Let me say two words. One: It is said that the person who took over the operation of TEGYM is opening 200 wells. Now, let's look at it, let's look at it together, let's look at it together. They say it's been leased for forty-nine years. Mr. Deputy, let's take a look at who's wrong. Three: This is also said to be a former deputy of the AKP. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), sir? It is also said that it was given to a former deputy from the AKP. Now, if you'd be so kind as to give me that information. You tell me, I'll tell them to the Konians. So tell me the truth, and I'll tell the Konians. I'll check them out. Give me that information, no one... I just did. No, but it is, not that way. Give it to me, and say, "Here, it has been given to this person. I will have it examined. What, has he been given, or has he not been given? Let me give you some information. How can I be more specific? A former AKP MP from Diyarbakir. A former AKP MP is not an obstacle if something has been done within the law. If it's not, it's the other thing, why... I mean, we're going to fight against illegality, illegality, together, you and we are going to fight against illegality. Sir, you just said we didn't do the bidding. What do you mean, given before the tender? No, no, wait a minute... you took one of my words out of my mouth and said, "Please don't say this." You told me. Wait a minute... you said that I understood the long-term lease... of the land farms. There are four of us in Iconia, four of them going from Polat to Iconium, four of them, Polyatian, Altınova, Eyed, and Guests. We didn't bid on these businesses, if you know what I mean. I mean, it's not like they're gonna be rented there for the long term. What could it be? I'm just saying that in a purely hypothetical way. I'll have him examined on your account. I'd appreciate it if you'd be so kind as to answer. Well, let's just say that sometimes in the Eyes, in the Guests, there, sometimes the citizens, farmers in the region, you know, 100 acres, 200 acres, 300 acres, whatever, can rent something for a year. If that's what you're talking about, I don't know, if that's what you're talking about, I'll have him examined, and I'll let you know, so don't worry. Okay, thank you. So there's nothing there. You said something else, you know, food poisoning in the ministry... you said it didn't happen, it's not true. No, don't laugh, it's not true. That's all I'm telling you. It's all over the papers. No, sir, not everything the newspapers say is true. You need to retaliate as the Ministry. You don't read the transcripts that were sent to the newspapers, okay, but you don't take into account the statement published in the newspapers or the disparity written in the paper. Our Ministry... can't it be? Maybe. It could be anywhere, but it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0045par0085	The Commander Matli has been poisoned. There's no such thing, it's not true. That's not true, Congressman. No, Commander Matli has been poisoned. I'm telling you, Mr. Deputy, it's not true. So whatever that information is, I assure you, it's not true.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0046par0089	Mr. Secretary, all the newspapers have written this. It's not true, no. This matter has been discussed in this House. There isn't one. Sir, not everything that's said is true. I mean, come on. I'm telling you it's not true. There's no such thing. And it never has been. It could have been, but it didn't. It doesn't exist. Look, we're wasting all this time on this. That's all I'm telling you. So on top of that, there was food poisoning in your Ministry. There was no saman import.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0047par0094	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary, because you've wasted your time on something else.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0048par0095	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered our questions.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0047par0096	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 5th article. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0049par0103	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of the First Amendment to Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law. On this occasion, I salute you all. In fact, it was a law that was expected to be passed for a long time. As our group on this law, we have no opposition, but just because we have no opposition does not mean that the Ministry of Agriculture has no opposition to agricultural policies and animalism policies. The Ministry of Agriculture also has a lot of opposition to agriculture and animalism policies, and I'd like to share them with you and our precious nation watching us at the head of television. Now, as a result of a crisis in livestock at one time, you planned to create female heifers, heifers, and new creations from female heifers, new farms through the Farm Bank. There's been a lot of change in interest rates. All of a sudden, the prices of these heifers went up to 7,000 liras, so the old number went up to $7 billion. The price of these heifers was reduced by $2,500, to 2.5 billion in the old figure, when the interest rates changed again. So, when you sell it with your veal, with your mother's milk and everything, it doesn't cover the price you've already bought. So the zero interest loan you gave me didn't mean anything. So the farmer and the peasant were severely damaged by your policy, and as a result, those beautiful female animals, fertile animals, had to be sent to the meat, to the slaughter. Because what does a farmer have to do when he can't pay off his debt to the Agriculture Bank? He has to cut off his animal so he can pay off his debt. So all of those beautiful animals, cattle that can give milk in the first degree, had to go to the slaughter. That was the wrong policy. So with that policy, you have victimized our farmer and our animal-making people. Again, our livestock manufacturers have a general shortage - especially the bait is extremely expensive. Today, a bag of bait costs $50, so it's worth $1 a kilo. How much is the milk? That's for female animals. And the milk changes between 80 and 110 cents. So if you have a cold milk tank, if you've built a cold milk tank, you can give up your milk for 90 cents, up to a dollar, but if you don't have a cold milk tank, you'll be stretched to 80 cents or 70 cents. How much money do you need to make a cold milk tank? We need a figure like 50, 60,000 liras. So there's no way that farms that have 50 heads and 100 head animals can make this cold milk tank. And anyway, when we looked at it, with its bait, its shepherd, its labor, its electricity, its water, and its water, I did a rough calculation: I've done a rough calculation since 1980, as a friend of yours who's been working on agriculture, and I've done a rough calculation: now, the average animal that gives the most efficient milk in the female animals is about 25 kilograms, so it's about 30 or 40 kilos. There aren't a lot of cows that give 30 kilos, 40 kilos of milk. The average is 25 kilograms of good milking cows. Now, when you put the feed on an average of 25 kilos of milk into a cow, the shepherd's expense, the electricity, the water, the labor, when you add it up with it, you charge about 600 grand a month over 100 head, over 100 animals, but in return, you sell it with its veal and milk in one year -- that's 500 grand -- that's what you get. I mean, a farmer's 100 headgear costs 100 grand a year in a facility. The accounts are there, I can share them with you if you want, and I have no problem with that, but when you're here on the stand, you tell everything to me in pink, as if our farmers and peasants were very pleased. So, if they're so pleased with you, why are so many cities moving into the suburbs? Again, I did a rough calculation on male animals, male livestock. Now, again, I've evaluated it over 100 heads. When you calculate the feed, the shepherd, the labor, electricity, water, and animal purchase, the cost of 100 head animals is like $535,000. Again, if you look at it well, if you feed it well, if you don't cause casualties... because you're losing at least a few of them, animals can get the disease fast, they're dying. So when you've lost a few casualties, there's no way you can find those numbers. If you take a good look at the average cut, the carcage you get from a male animal is between 280 kilos and 300 kilos. Now, when you calculate with these numbers, when you calculate with the price of today's cut, you get, like, $560,000, so if a farmer has 100 cattle in a year, and he doesn't lose, he only gets $25,000. Isn't that a funny number? You take care of those animals for a year, you feed them, you feed them, you take care of them, you take care of them without making them sick, but you make $25,000 out of 100 head animals. Now, friends, like this, it's impossible to make money, to be an animal with these conditions. So when you're doing animalry incentives, you have to get the farmer's opinion, you have to get the opinion of the people in the area who work in livestock. If we do things in our heads before we get these ideas, we're always doing business for farmers and peasants and cattlemen. And that's the picture that came out, as a result. Now, look, the farmer's been staring at that animal for a year. He makes his own vaccine, he gives the oath, he does everything with the shepherd, he takes everything, he takes the head of the animal, he takes the skin, he takes the guts, he takes the giblet, the farmer stays with the karkas, he takes the carkas to the meat. That's why the farmer doesn't win anything, works for the manufacturer, plays for the middleman. You have to look at ways to prevent that. If we want to make money for our livestock people, we have to do it. If we don't make it, we're hurting our people, our people who make it. Again, Mr. Secretary, what about these cotton manufacturers? The cotton that we sold for $1.8 TL last year, which is an old number of $1,800,000, dropped to $1.2 TL this year, or $1,200,000, and we sell it by hand. I mean, it's kind of merciful. Snow really is an industrial plant, a plant that employs cotton. Snow is one of the most exported products in our country in the past, but we are now unfortunately one of the world's largest cotton importers. China declared it banned cotton imports a year ago, and the world markets suddenly dropped. Why didn't you take care of it? Why didn't you fund it? You just put in a fund. It's too late. Snow came out of the farmer's hand, out of the manufacturer's hand, into his vehicle's hand. Although he's a mess now, and he's complaining that he can't sell the truck or the bale. Well, now, this cotton needs to be planted by the farmer, and we need to get this cotton planted by the farmer. No corn every year, no wheat every year, no soybean every year. I'm a farmer, I grew up in the ground, and if you want to harvest from the field, you have to change it for a year. You have to plant cotton so that it yields when you plant corn in a year. You don't know any of this. E, corn. In Egypt, when all the cotton fields are planted one day tomorrow... the country needs 5 or 6 million tons of corn, you don't know, 7 million tons of corn. You open it every year, 1 and a half million tons of corn coming out of it, 8 or 9 million tons? Now, where will this corn go? After that, corn will fall underfoot, corn producers will be devastated. So we need to support the cotton manufacturers. You need to deposit this bonus immediately, Mr. Secretary. Look, Reza Zarraf, how much interest did you pay because I don't know how many days she stayed at the... Doesn't Riza Zarraf deserve a farmer as much as my brother? Doesn't he deserve a farmer as Reza Zarraf? (Applause from MHP rows) Raise these bonuses, let the farmer plant cotton, and let this cotton he sows earn money, and let the country win. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0050par0116	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who now wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0051par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food Law Amendments, and I salute you all with love and respect. As a opposition party, as all our citizens are watching us right now, both the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties support a bill brought in by power on a matter that concerns agriculture, livestock and producers. That means something. This has to be done well. Every time the power speakers come out, you're against everything we do. They blame us. Look, my dear citizens, our citizens who work in farming, farming, beekeeping, all other products, as an opposition party, we support power without hesitation in the approach to your interests, within the framework of the law and the Constitution. There's nothing wrong with that. This is important for strengthening the reputation of politics, as well as for growing confidence in the political institution and the politician. Of course, why should we be opposed to power in matters that concern the interests of all layers of society? But power is against the opposition, that's why. I would like to address the ruling group, who ignores any right criticism we say, and if you do so, the Constitutional Court will cancel. Look, the opposition gives all its support in the laws that concern public sensitivity, producers' interests and the whole community. I want all our citizens to know that. Of course we have to strengthen the manufacturer. We need to strengthen the manufacturers, not even as they are. The stronger the producers are in Turkey, the stronger the NGO, the more likely they are to speak against the authorities. In determining base prices, producer units need to be strong in determining prices related to some product patterns. That's what we want. That's how democracy develops. They should be like this in agriculture, not with the practices of power, not with the policies he sets, not with the prices he sets, but with the trade union-employee relationship. Manufacturers in agriculture must be strengthened. Today, indeed, our producers, those who work in agriculture, animalism, form the weakest class in our society. The power they receive from their organization is not one of the most wanted forces in democracy, my dear friends. They can't create enough pressure, they can't get their prices as they please. They can't sell their product for what they're worth. They spend a lot of money, make little money, and therefore, with policies implemented in Turkey, agriculture is over, livestock is over. We need to get this thing on its feet. I'm an Ankara MP. Mr. Minister, I travel the districts and villages of Ankara; Haymana, Polatlı, Koçhisar, Evren, Bala. When we look at all of these things -- when we travel more than ten years ago -- there are fewer animals. There are villages in agriculture that are no longer sowable because of almost migration, Mr. Secretary, because of houses leaving their villages. We have to get them on their feet. Agriculture is one of Turkey's most important entries, one of its revenues. It's all our job to get it up, it's a national mission. In this national mission, power, opposition, all of us, look, here we are united. Dear friends, while we're doing this, we're united in the interests of the country. We give you this support in terms of increasing the reputation of politics and increasing the confidence of the country's politician. We hope you appreciate that. But don't think that our support is not limited to other areas. As Republican People's Party, we, my fellow lawmakers, my fellow citizens, are sensitive to corruption. Corruption must be eradicated in Turkey. A parliament on corruption in Turkey would be a much more respected parliament. Unfortunately, we didn't make it last week. In a case with documents of our country's most important corruption operations, its evidence, Parliament failed to comply. It is also related to increasing the dignity of parliament. In a Parliament where such corruption files are discussed, we want corruption to be reflected directly into the public resources, the nation's resources, the producers, the consumers, our people. We haven't been able to account for this, but look where the confusion at the ruling party got them. My fellow lawmakers, my fellow citizens, four ministers resigned when the December 17th-25th operations began, among the members of this ruling party in Turkey. Until then, a perception operation has been carried out, and these operations have been claimed to have been a coup to the ruling party by a coup, and the Prime Minister continues to say so. If you develop your speech like that, and you build all your thesis on it, look, you'll be inextricably involved. In the vote we took last week, some of the AKP's MPs acted differently in parliament, and as you all know, lawmakers who acted that way were also subject to accusations of some of your MPs' treason. Now, as an opposition party MP, I have to ask you, dear friends, and I have to wait for the answer, and if you equate them with coupism, what are you going to do about the MPs who are acting in the opposite direction? So, if these operations were a coup operation, our AKP MP friends who acted differently in the vote that day also aided and abetted coupgers? You have to put it out there. Who are your friends? How are you going to walk side by side? How can you trust me? How can we trust you? Have you been able to determine which of our friends voted? But you have to find it. Look, a member of parliament is cooperating with the Guard. He accused the Republican People's Party, our own MP; we did what we had to do.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0052par0131	What did you do?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0051par0132	We put him on discipline, and that friend of ours cut him off. Now it's your turn, it's your turn. Come on. You're saying, we're fighting back. You're saying, "We're fighting back." But right now, 50 AKP MPs are aiding and abetting the coup. If you don't do a procedure on these things, then the AKP administration will be part of these coups.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0053par0133	We have democracy, democracy! There's a democracy in the party!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0051par0134	From the moment you make that kind of logic, you can't get out of it. Look, come on, things are taking you from where to where. Dear lawmakers, I know how corruption exploits country resources. All of you came here with the prayers of your mothers and fathers, and said, "Go, my son, keep the goods of the people, and keep the goods of the people." And you all were kissed on the forehead. I know that many of our fellow lawmakers feel sorry for these corruptions, that they're sorry that they haven't been done. We know how many of our fellow lawmakers feel about this, but it's up to all of us to bring out the dignity of Parliament, to restore its reputation. So, our manufacturers have visited you today, and they've visited us, and they're waiting for the law. Turkey has common problems; agriculture has, livestock has, we have business, we have farmers, we have small incomes, college students, we have unassigned teachers. It will be possible for us to solve all of them's problems with a prestigious Parliament in Turkey and with the common laws that will come out of this House, my dear friends. In this regard, the Republican People's Party salutes all of our citizens with love, saying that we are on the side of power in every law in the interest of our people, but we will continue to face every mistake the government has made, and we will continue to ask the account, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0054par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0055par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0054par0140	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0055par0141	Mr. President, Mr. Gök has given a speech to the EC PARTY about the Supreme Court's vote in particular, which is indicative of his administration, sir, and I'd like to speak to you about bullying.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0056par0142	I didn't, I defended most of our friends.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0054par0143	Two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0057par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, my dear President, yes, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has set up an investigation commission for ministers with a particular number of allegations. First and foremost, the group that founded that commission is this AK PARTY group. If there are allegations, accusations, they should be investigated, we have said that this is the basis of the Constitution, the Civil Code, and the group demanding that an investigation commission be set up in that sense, the AK PARTI Group and the Investigative Commission have made its evaluation, made its legal decision in the course of its time. Meanwhile, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office had also made a decision not to be followed. In light of all these assessments, the Commission on Investigations has decided not to refer it to the Supreme Court. Of course, it was up to the General Assembly to make the final decision. In particular, it was as if the AK PARTY Group, the AK PARTY administration, intervenes in the group or advises the group. There were some unjust accusations, such as these. We have freed ourselves entirely by believing in the dignity of the MPs, believing in their free will. Many secret ballots have been held in this Parliament so far, and we have stood every time, so that the MPs can decide according to their own free will, not to damage the dignity of that secret vote, but especially to the main opposition party, I say from here: a 26-point referendum vote has been held here in 2010. The CHP Group didn't trust their own MPs, didn't believe their own wills, put up a mortgage, sent no MPs behind that curtain, but whatever our MPs decide, it's respectable. And here, Parliament decided that the 17th and 25 December were a coup, as a result of this Supreme Court vote. One way or another, with a different set of ideas, there may be people who have different meanings, so help me God. But here, especially from December 17th until now, the position, the position of the AK PARTY group on this issue is obvious, and Parliament has made a respectable decision here, which has been declared to be a coup. I invite you to pay your respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0058par0153	Thank you. Yes, and now speaking on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Erol Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0059par0159	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the first part of the First Amendment to Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law, and I salute the General Assembly. This bill, which includes arrangements for the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Pet Resources to co-operate with organisations that conduct activities such as conservation, rehabilitation, expansion, expansion, and documentation, and control of their activities, had previously come to the General Assembly, but the Constitutional Court has dismissed the idea of filling them with regulations to be filled with which to manage these gaps. Precious lawmakers are of great importance in the stability of the healing, protection and development of food and animal species, as well as in maintaining the ecological balance of the human species, but in the last 12 years of which the EC PARTI government has been in power, both agriculture and animal activities and the ongoing employment in Turkey and the production of jobs, agriculture and animalry, both private and corporate enterprises have been significantly reduced. For example, the number of small animals with 51 million in 1991 has declined to 38.5 million in 2013. In 1990, the population of the country was 56.5 million, while today its population was about 78 million. Turkey's population has increased by about 50 per cent in the last 22 years, but Turkey's small animal presence has decreased by 12.5m in the past 22 years. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important developments of 2014 for our people living in the country is the turning of 16,000 villages into neighborhoods under the Metropolitan Law. With this change, the country's population will also change, and the rural population will descend from 24 per cent to 9 per cent. People in the countryside, or villages, pay water money, property tax, and participation in services to the municipality where they live as a neighborhood. All zoning permits and practices are carried out by municipalities in these villages, which are included in the Metropolitan borders. The village's corporate personality has been handed over to the municipalities, and all other assets have been given over to the municipalities, and the fields, the fields, the meadows, the plateaus, the zoning. Farmers who are already unable to make any money from their agricultural production will have to sell the land they have and withdraw from production greatly. In this regard, measures to protect farmers must be taken under the Metropolitan Law. The United Nations declared 2014 the Year of International Family Farming, while a project was being carried out in Turkey to destroy the countryside, to transform the village. In the European Union, it is a positive discrimination in agricultural support to run a family, if necessary. It supports family business and supports young farmers to produce in the countryside. Precious lawmakers, animalism, an important economic resource in other countries, especially developed countries, are a major source of income for countries. In Turkey, the share of livestock in agricultural production remains limited to 30 per cent, and when we look at the developed countries, we see that livestock has a significant share in agriculture, 50 per cent, 60 per cent. Although Turkey is perfectly suitable for animal production, it still has serious problems with the production and production quality of the unit. In livestock, it is known that as the largest entry, around 70 per cent of it is crude bait. Although this is well known, there is still no proportional number of food animals produced in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, the way to increase animal production in one country is either by increasing the number of animals or by rehabilitating existing animals to become higher and more quality products. When we look at the first path in terms of economics, it has no sustainability. The second way, when we look at the middle-term, is a phenomenon that should be created in Turkey, which should be implemented as soon as possible. In order to eliminate external addiction in the field of livestock, the reforms of races that produce high and quality products must be supported at a maximum level. In one country, animalism can't be developed by giving the farmer two or three livestock. Dear lawmakers, the bait problem is generally ignored while large investments are being made in the livestock sector with zero interest or low interest loans. In view of the last three years alone, more than $2 billion per year has been supported by animalism, while over $7 billion in loans have been established. In addition to food and dairy livestock, the winging industry in small livestock and the growing and growing water products in recent years are also the main issue of bait. The rough bait deficit is estimated to be 60 percent. The hay crisis, which broke out in 2012, once again brought the problem of rude bait to the top of the agenda. Turkey had to import hay for the first time in 2012. It is also impossible to solve the problems of the livestock industry without solving the bait problem because in livestock, 70 percent of its input costs are bait. Dear lawmakers, support for bait plants has increased in very small proportions over the past five years. Costs rise when the price of diesel, fertilizer, energy and other inputs in the production of feed plants is too high. However, the price of oaths sold by the manufacturer does not increase at the same rate. Therefore, those who produce for their own business, if left aside, those who want to plant and sell feed plants, are forced to continue. Hence, the crude bait gap cannot be closed. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, the fields of grass and mera in Turkey are rapidly narrowed down and almost looted. With legal regulations, the mera fields are being opened for non-profit use, while the reform work of current mera is insufficient. Over the years, every government has made all the legal arrangements necessary for the use of the field without purpose, rather than to offer it to the use of animalism. Therefore, rather than reforming the mera, which is extremely important for livestock, the sale of the mera became preferable. An important handicap about bait support is that farmers must sow at least 10 per cent in order to benefit from support. This prevents small manufacturers from receiving support. Dear lawmakers, the government has also taken the production of multi-year bait plant loans to prevent the crisis in hay and increase the production of bait in 2012, but it has been found that the problem of rude bait will not be possible only by providing a certain amount of support and credit. In order to close the opening, a comprehensive support, development, and a holistic policy covering production, efficiency and many other issues must be implemented, starting with seeds. Dear lawmakers, with all the trouble in the bait industry, there's also a problem with the dairy industry. For several years, the milk industry, which has been trying to sell food to the manufacturer that they've been buying milk, has moved on to an application that will deeply affect the bait market. If you don't take your food from me, I won't take your milk from the manufacturer they're buying raw milk. They're forcing it into shape. A manufacturer who sells his milk to an industrialist is forced to buy the bait he needs from the industrialist. With this app, the milk manufacturer's right to choose the quality and price of his vows. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the livestock industry and many other areas that determine the stability of this sector, have been seriously undermining problems. Populist, temporary, superficial, and partial support programmes, which the government has compressed into election times, have brought to the brink of bankruptcy both small-scale and cooperative-shaped businesses. This government's bill of law, in this case, is very poor at the root of the problems. The instability to provide food for the population of the country, which is nearing 80 million, is alarming. In measures to be taken, he says, there is a need for comprehensive reforms to actually address the problems of animal manufacturers, and with those feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0060par0180	Thank you. Now, it is Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar who has asked for a word on his behalf. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0061par0184	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. As for the law that is being passed, I have made a promise with respect to you all again by the law of the last word MP. Agriculture is a truly strategic sector, but what is still more important in Turkey is a concept that is not important because agriculture is not important enough. And especially, we were very, very happy, we really hoped that a fellow veterinary physician would become Minister of Agriculture, but at the moment, unfortunately, the mountain gave birth to mice. Because, as a person who's worked for the Ministry of Agriculture since 1983, and has been in the Ministry of Agriculture for 25 years, there's only one veterinary minister after 1980, but -- I don't remember anything before 1980 -- he didn't respond to what was expected, Mr. Agriculture Minister. When he came here, he drew a world of dust and pink. But, Mr. Minister, you just said Mr. Bal. Let's go together if you want. Let's make a concession from here to Poletlı, from Poletlı to Emirdağ, to Bolvadin, to Tea, to the Plains of Conconceals, what the farmer says, what the farmer says, what the milk maker says, what the Minister of Agriculture and Mahdi Eker say, let's measure whatever loan you want. Are you up for that, Mr. Secretary? It's really heartbreaking. You may not like the manufacturer, like the ministers to the manufacturer or the prime ministers to feed the black earth." You can say, "Take your mother, go." And you can say, "Why don't you make money?" You can say, "Why don't you make money?" And these statements have come in your time as a black mark on Turkish political history, Turkish agriculture. But then again, at a time when there was a veterinary minister of agriculture, there was an import of live animals, so to speak, importing living victims, importing straw. Really, Mr. Secretary, you laugh, but I regret it. And you're saying that a lot of agricultural engineers want to be in the Department of Agriculture, a lot of vets, food engineers, water products engineers, they want to be in the Department of Agriculture, but you're stalling, you're stalling. We've asked the Ministry of Finance for a staff, and if the staff is given, these appointments will be appointed. You say. And the numbers that you just said are really ridiculous, they don't respond to expectations. In addition, agriculture technicians are also being served by the Ministry with veterinary health technicians. From here on out, you have to give them back their rights. Mr. Secretary, are you aware that services at the Ministry of Agriculture are failing? Either the news that's coming in, the information that's coming in, it doesn't feel right or it doesn't. Please pay attention to these. From the Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, which is the only thing you've done as Minister, to change the Ministry's name and logo. You've cost billions of dollars, but there's been a serious setback in the services. The manufacturer is miserable, the farmer is miserable, the feeder is miserable, the input costs are taking off, but you come in here and you show a world of dust and pink Turkey. Don't ignore our farmer, our farmer is patient. Believe me, he's reached the end of his patience, and it's almost as if he's reached the bone. Let's solve the problems of our people together. If we don't, believe me, they will give you the lesson you need in the future. Because I admire their common sense and their patience, dear lawmakers. What part of agriculture is the prisoner really falling apart? From the farmer to the farmer to the farmer, from the greenhouse to the narcissist -- it just came up. Records aren't kept normal. Our friend, the Manisa MP, has just voiced that there are serious problems with the farmers' registration systems. The people who gave the documents still haven't been paid. Believe me, there's not enough time. That's what I said in five minutes. We, too, are trying to support your good deeds as opposition. I'm already saying good luck and good luck. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0062par0196	Thank you. Now, Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0063par0200	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Constitutional Law on Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law. I salute you with respect and love. Before we get into the bill, I'd like to talk about a few things today. One of them: Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu sends messages to our farmers at AKP district conventions in recent days; previously at Tekirdağ district convention, and later at Diyarbakır, the home of the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. What does it say, Prime Minister? It says: "We have increased the grant of 100 percent to products such as Mercimek, chickpeas, and beans. Dear friends, at first sight, when we hear that it's a pleasant expression as a farmer, that the farmer has been given 100% support, it's in our hearts to applaud. However, when we look back, in 2008, grant support, which was 9 cents/kilograms, was then increased by a penny to 10 cents/kilograms. What year? 2009. What are the next years, dear friends? 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. How much support? Ten cents. Today, five years later, it has been announced that there will be a 100 percent increase in grant support. However, we applaud this, but as we approach the election, I would like to stress in particular that the Minister had thought of farmers. And I'd also like to say: Does the Prime Minister of Agriculture know that he owes more than 43 billion euros to the farmers in support of the 21st Article of the Agricultural Law, starting in 2006, or did Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petty Minister inform Mr. Prime Minister on this matter? Dear friends, in this environment where agriculture has been ignored, the Ministry has not considered farmers and peasants, unfortunately, the fact that the conditions of nature are negative has troubled our farmers. We have these problems in Gürsu, Kestel, Yenişehir, İngegöl, Karacabey, and Mustafakemalpaşa. I'd like to know what our Ministry is doing, what the drainage channels don't work, and what they're thinking about. Another thing I want to say is that today in Georgia and Kestel, because of the crisis in Syria, Iran, Iraq, the president of the agricultural chamber, exports have been stopped, zeroed in the light of the expression of exports. For what it's worth, we still have these farmers who take their crops and fruit and leave them with no charge, and then a month later, two months later, they get paid. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister about the example of the mayor's behaviour in Aydın, which could not have been in Burma, which was left by the farmer in Aydın, which was not sold for 25 cents, which was bought for 30 cents by the Metropolitan Municipality, and distributed to all the Enlightenment. Can't our fruits be distributed in this Georgian, Kestel, and other regions of the National Ministry of Defence? I'd like to address the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of National Education in front of the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting because the Minister is not interested in these matters, at least, can the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of National Education not help our friends by taking care of them? In Karacabey, Kemalpaşa, corn harvest continues now, friends, corn harvest. And as this corn harvest continues, I want to say that the price has dropped to 62 cents. He also wants to ask that in the ports, the ships are loaded with corn, and he wants to know the Minister's efforts in this matter, and I offer all of you with respect and love, thank you, be there.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit03spe0064par0210	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 653. The commission and the government are in place. Now we're going to do a QA. Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0065par0006	Mr. President, thank you. Turkey has traditional productions -- Mr. Minister, although outside, our Minister is not a stranger -- in our region, the crop and the oatmeal are planted together, so the spiral structure and the eraser are made. However, the Ministry of Agriculture supports the crop separately, the oatmeal separately, and when the expert arrives, he is asked to waive support when he sees the oatmeal and the phantasm in a field. Our ministry knows very well that fission and oatmeal are planted together, it's our traditional production, and I suggest that we make an adjustment to support the oatmeal that's been planted with the fission. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0066par0009	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0067par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. These agricultural loans -- livestock, feed loans -- have a lot of problems, especially in central Anatolia and southeast. They say the loans they get are highly interestd and very difficult to pay, and they say they want to pay for it, but they can't deal with them, and 40 percent interest is too high. A farmer from Central District of Çankırı, Cemil Beyin, who has a debt of $22,000 in 1998, has shown a debt of $75,000 as a principal debt, and is now demanding $175,000 in interest, says there is no way I can pay it. Hundreds of other farmers I've talked to are suffering from the same boredom, and they say they'll have to deal with it quickly, or else they'll have to sell their animals for nothing. About that...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0068par0016	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0069par0018	Mr. Minister, about 667 of our farmers' greenhouses collapsed a month ago in villages of Bilcik Willows and Inhisar districts, and in the village of Çaltı. And in 23 other villages. Even though I asked you for an appointment, I couldn't get in touch with you, but the findings I made there were really hard on our farmers, and so far -- on the phone that I received today -- no support and no help has been given. Two things need to be done there. First of all, there must be a financial aid for the dismantling of the greenhouses, because that is all the income of these villages. There's a hell of a greenhousery. The second is that new greenhouses need to be built in order to grow to the planting of April, but these farmers do not have the chance to build greenhouses with their own abilities, skills, and financial status. They also say that we do not ask the government for a grant. If they give us a loan of five years or seven years without paying for it for two years, and they lead us to it, we will also pay our government for it.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0070par0021	Thank you. Mr. Tayan...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0071par0023	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, he's been shaken by the fugitive horse meat scandal for some time. A smuggler cuts up stolen horses and sells them. The incident was widely involved in the Bursa press. However, all food vendors, all restaurants, restaurants and buffets are under suspicion, the tradesman is in a state of panic, the citizen is in a state of panic. The fact that which company was sold to, who was released, was known by the Agricultural Food County Directorate, yet still unexplained causes public sadness. Would you care to enlighten the public? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0070par0025	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0072par0027	Mr. Minister, in the early years of the new year, there was damage to Mayanoz and lettuce greenhouses in the districts of Manisa, many of them -- 918 farmers in 27 districts of Saruhanlı -- due to heavy snow in Manisa, so there were about 90 percent damage to our region. Again, in the 10 neighborhoods of 40krek, in the areas where 10 manufacturers were animal workers, there was damage to the buildings and the animals were destroyed. These injuries are uninsuranced. Especially about breaking olive branches or other animals, out of insurance coverage. Have you had any concrete work on the removal of these victims, or have you had any concrete work on the removal of victims after other natural disasters like this?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0070par0028	Yes, thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0073par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you just told us that you requested a total of 2,000 staff from the Treasury Department in 2015. Is it certain that these 2,000 staffs, according to professions, are distributed according to agriculture engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians, technicians, water products and fishing technology engineers? Do you really find 2,000 staff enough for Turkey's agriculture? Is there any way to increase that? We'd appreciate your opinion on this matter. Because right now, there's a serious public expectation.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0070par0032	Yes, thank you. Mr. Akar, come again.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0074par0034	Mr. Secretary, my question is incomplete. Now, the question is, did you make a down payment for the bracelet, or do you intend to do it? Do you plan to give the farmer a loan to build those greenhouses? And do you plan to delay the debt of existing agricultural loan co-ops to banks? Again, with the market collapse in Bozük district, he was struck by all the stalls of nearly 300. Did you do any damage assessments on this? Have you ever been involved in a study that will identify the losses of these marketers or allow them to buy again? I'd like to get some answers to these questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0075par0039	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you. Mr. Ramadan Kerim Özkan asked the question. Well, here's your Deputy Director of the Group. Now, he said, "No support for planting the fat and the oatmeal together." In fact, figs and oatmeal are part of the support of the bait plants, as a simultaneous plant. We're supporting $35 per dekar.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0076par0044	Send a statement, Minister. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), sir? The district managers and county managers are giving me a hard time. Send a statement.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0077par0047	They're giving me a hard time. I mean, we've already thought of that in the legislation. Therefore, there is no problem with the legislation. Now, Mr. Pünümümül has a question about loans. Of course, there's actually a lot of agricultural loans. For example, only the zero interest loan was paid 8.6 billion, from 2010 to 2014, and 371,000 producers took advantage of it in Turkey. I'm not saying that the Bank of Agriculture normally has a $17 billion payment in 2014, and the agricultural loan has 6 billion and 22.8 billion in total. Now, official information from the bank and agriculture loans: 98.7 per cent of the $16.8 billion loan the agricultural Bank used in 2014 has returned, and 97.1 per cent of the 6 billion of the agricultural loan has returned. Now, we, of course, also increase investments by improving these conditions as much as possible and giving non-interested loans, as well as in livestock, which I just told you about in livestock, has actually led to a huge investment of $8.6 billion. For example, in Turkey, we have taken over more than 50 large animals from 4,300, which is now 31,450, or over 27 thousand, new 50 tops, or large-middle-sized businesses. We've had a presentation from the Agriculture Bank -- they've had a presentation last week -- and we've always asked them both for advice, to help farmers in this regard as much as possible and to provide ease. In regards to the flood of Bilecik, of Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0078par0053	It's not a flood, it's snow. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ Ha, snow - natural disaster. Now, actually, we, of course, talked to both the manufacturers and the citizens in that area. I actually answered Mr. Light's question just now. The heavy snowfall in the... of course, some of it can benefit from the legislation that we passed in 2014 before December 31st. We're doing a detailed study of all the people in 2015 -- including my other valued deputies, such as Sakine Hanım, and Mr. Oz. There's been a detailed damage assessment, an initial damage assessment, but in order for this to turn into an application, certain damage assessments need to be made. And in particular, of course, we're now working on a formula for those who are producing on the basis that they should be able to continue their production. So, according to the Agricultural Law, we can't help them at all, because we don't have CPS records. They don't have insurance because they don't have CPS records. So we're going to stay within the law, and we're going to solve their problems somehow. So what I want to say is that we're also doing a study on agricultural loans, and we're also doing a study on agricultural bank loans. Mr. Oz just asked me a question, and I couldn't answer it. I just got off the phone with the Salihli County Agriculture Manager and the Manisa County Manager, and there's no problem with that.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0079par0057	Is that okay? There's no problem. Just recently, for a few days, there's been a problem with taking drinks, two or three days of problems, and it's been overcome. Some say it hasn't been for a month. Second of all, we don't have a producer in Manisa County who's due for any support and has not been paid. There's no problem with the CPS system, the system works. You asked where we got the software. Along with İstanbul Technical University, he was bought through them, in fact, with private systems, private firms in cooperation with them. Other than that, Mr. Light asked about the occupational distribution of the agricultural engineer and veterinary physician. Of course, we want 2,000 people in the sense that we're going to distribute them to professions based on the amount assigned to us, because we can't memorize that right now. So, if we can get more than 2,000, there's going to be a distribution, under 2,000, there's going to be a buy-in. And I'll tell you, of course, between 2003-2014, we actually took 23,000 agricultural engineers, food engineers, fishing, water products, veterinary physicians, technicians, technicians and other staff. And let me remind you, Mr. Yilmaz just said on the stand: Now, look, the last recruitment was in 1989 at the Ministry of Agriculture. From 1989 to 2003, the Ministry of Agriculture received no recruitment; we received 23,000 people. Now, of course, it's not possible for us to take all of them, so there's no such thing, there's no such thing. No one can do such a thing.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0080par0064	But your services are still failing, Minister. No, our services don't go out. It's limping, Mr. Secretary. If you'd like, let's go. Our services are going as best they can. So there's no problem there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They told me about the stale. They're waiting for you. When we took into consideration the subsidiaries of Gida, Tariq, and NEIGHMEDI MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), 11,000 members were taken there. I mean, TMO, TIGEM, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. So 23+11,000, 34,000 employees were taken, and when we arrived, the total number in the Ministry of Agriculture is 42 thousand members of the Department of Agriculture in all majors. So from all of them, almost, we, during that time, took in staff. They're all sleeping together, so that's what they know about service.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0081par0072	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are four motions in article 1, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the eighth sentence of Article 10/A which is added to Article 10 after Article 10 of Article 5996, we propose the amendment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Food Law. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demirözı Ramazan Kerim Özkan Recep Special Adnan Şik Ugly Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ramazan Can Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After Article 10/A-1, which is included in Article 10/A-1, under Article 596 of the Law on the Amendment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Yem Law, we propose and propose that the declaration be added after the 10th Amendment. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ilm Adnan Şişek Güçük Ali Halaman Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first article in the 653 row bill, dated 11/06/2010, and under the 10th Article of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Food Law, which are expected to be added to come after Article 10/A, can be opened with the permission of a branch office or liaison office; we propose and offer it to be replaced by the decisions of the Union governing boards. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Gülser Yıldırım Secret by Darayya Leader Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 653 Orders Numbered Bill of the 1st Amendment. We propose and propose that the clause be added to the article "United States may open a branch office or a liaison office in the areas in which they are needed." Ramazan Kerim Özkan Doğan Şafak Mahmut Tanal Osman Captain Ilhan Demiröze Sakine Öz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0082par0115	Mr. President, I've made a pledge to make changes to Veterinary Services 653, Plant Health, Food and Food Law. I salute you all with respect and love. Dear friends, I've spoken about Karacabey, and I want to continue with Karacabey, and I've received many calls. The harvest of corn is being done in Bursa Karacabey, here it is today 27, in January. They said it was down to 62 cents due to the damp. They also mean something else; there are corn-loaded ships in Bandirma Harbor. Who will buy the corn from our farmers in Karacabey, when there are ships loaded with corn? I specifically ask the Minister to inform you on this matter. Speaking of scholarship, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Bursa, as asked by our MP, about the runaway horse meat expressed in the press and the main news bulletins, and I've shared this negative example for this reason: there are 20,251 agricultural enterprises in Bursa. We're checking it out with 139 tech guys. However, the Finance Ministry said the Plan Budget Commission had 20,270 openings; then, in 2015, 74,000 staff were given; that 34,000 were doctors; and the remaining 40,000 would be evaluated according to the demands of the ministries. Now, I'd like to point out why I'm saying this: Mr. Secretary's out, we're going to get 2,000 technical staff, we're going to get a staff... lt's election time, we're going to take 2,000 technical staff out of thin air. However, I would like to stress that this is not enough for us to reach healthy food. Minister, there are 20,251 businesses in Bursa. According to the Food Engineers' Room, a group of 80 are controlled in two sections, ranking a food farming business every five years. In these circumstances, I'd like to say that we have no idea what kind of food we're getting, whether we're on antibiotics, whether we have GMOs. And I want to come to the law. Mr. Secretary came out here with some very nice paintings, some work done, as usual. But I would like to say that a law is being passed, and the Court of Appeals is being cancelled a year ago, going to the Constitutional Court. Guys, what date is this? On November 7, 2013. A year is given. So, I'm asking you, what was this done over a year, and why wasn't it dealt with? How did the troops work this year? They did illegal work. When I ask the heads of the union, friends say that there is a generalization of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, that financial congress must be held on November 30th. So the troops choose every four years, every two years for a fiscal convention. There's no law, there's no regulations, but these guys are doing a fiscal convention, and these guys have been here for 14 months, and they've been doing it negatively, against the law. Who can answer the question of tomorrow's problems with them? Besides, there's one more thing we'll see in the next part of the stuff. Our dear friends, the General Assembly, disregarding us, states that this law is enforced by the 7/11/2014. It's January 27th, we're seeing each other now. Maybe we didn't agree. Is such a substance possible, such a proprietary clause? Friends, you may reject the law yourself, you may have nothing to do with the law, but at least you don't have the opportunity or the opportunity to wrong all the MPs who live here. Please... You need to be a little more serious about these things, take our General Assembly, our MPs more seriously, and I offer you all respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0083par0123	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first article in the 653 row bill, dated 11/06/2010, and under the 10th Article of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Food Law, which are expected to be added to come after Article 10/A, can be opened with the permission of a branch office or liaison office; we propose and offer it to be replaced by the decisions of the Union governing boards. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0084par0133	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0083par0134	I'm reading the reason: The permission of the department to open branches and offices of troops established by elections and with a legal personality means intervention in the functioning of the troops. The troops should be able to open offices and offices without any permission, with decisions made by their own organs in case of need. That's why the motion was made. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After Article 10/A-1, which is included in Article 10/A-1, under Article 596 of the Law on the Amendment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Yem Law, we propose and propose that the declaration be added after the 10th Amendment. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The aim was to organise the study of gene-sources for research and detection of gene-sources that subject the real and legal personality to haliz and special legal provisions in order to protect, improve, improve, market-related matters of matter and animal gene resources. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the eighth sentence of Article 10/A which is added to Article 10 after Article 10 of Article 5996, we propose the amendment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Food Law. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: According to the clause provisions organised by the institutions of reform-purpose breeding units, the branch office or liaison office can be opened by permission of the Ministry's municipal directorate in the areas needed. It would be appropriate for the Union to change our proposal in order to single-handedly use the authority on organisational planning, monitoring and control issues and to ensure unity in the implementation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the two motions adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm reading: The framework of the current Law Bill number 653 rows is 2. Article 1 of Article 10/B added to Law 5996. The joke (a) has to be held every four years. Once every four years, the formal meeting must be held. (b) In the form of a financial meeting, we propose and propose that the number of subsidiaries be added after the seven digits in my head. Adnan Şişek Ugly scholar İşim Kemalettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Kalaycı Frame 2 of the current Law Bill 653 rows. Article 1 of Article 10/B added to Law 5996. After the declaration of "crimes against constitutional order and the functioning of this order" (b) in the sub-bendit 3 of the joke, we demand and demand the addition of "serious sexual assault, children's sexual abuse." Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Levent Gök Ramazan Kerim Özkan Erol Dora Adnan Şişek Güçük Seyfettin Yilmaz Recep Special Ramadan Can == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second article in the 653 row bill, dated 11/06/2010, and added to the 10th Article of Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Law, which is expected to be added to come after Article 10 of Article 10/B; the "or by consideration of the need for public benefit and service" of the clause of the declaration "or by which I am offered to replace the number of members of the original board" and to come after the second sentence of the first one. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Gülser Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0085par0190	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0083par0191	I'm reading the reason: This motion is primarily based on the Ministry's call for a meeting unless it can be met in the manner specified in the Article of the General Assembly, which is the most competent body that represents only unity. Calling a meeting on the basis of public benefit and service, which is part of the bill's clause, also provides the ministry with an arbitrary right to intervene directly in the duties and responsibilities of the Union's boards and the general boards. It also added a sentence on the selection of the reserve board members who did not participate in the clause and were left incomplete, and aims to increase the ceiling fees of members of the boards to ensure that the fee they receive is not below the poverty limit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Frame 2 of the current Law Bill 653 rows. Article 1 of Article 10/B added to Law 5996. We request and demand the addition of "species of sexual assault, child abuse" after the declaration of "criminals against constitutional order and the functioning of this order" (b) in the sub-bendit #3 of the joke (b). Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to appreciation. Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The scope of not being convicted of certain crimes in the matter has been extended, including the conditions to be searched for members of the board. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The framework of the current Law Bill number 653 rows is 2. Article 1 of Article 10/B added to Law 5996. The joke (a) has to be held every four years. Once every four years, the formal meeting must be held. (b) In the form of a financial meeting, we propose and propose that the number of subsidiaries be added after the seven digits in my head. Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The time of the meeting is being rearranged by the proposal, and the board is envisioned to be selected as many replacement members as the actual number of members. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Law shall be changed to 10/C-1, which is included in Article 10/C-1, which is included in Article 5996 to come after Article 10 of Article 5 of the Law under which Article 3 shall be adopted under the framework 3 of the Law shall be changed to "referencing and projecting services for the needs of its members in relation to the field of accountability." Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ilm Adnan Şişek Güçük Emin Çınar Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Halaman This is the 3rd draft of the current 653 rows of legislation. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ramadan Kerim Özkan Haluk Eyidoğan Gökhan Good morning Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Gökhan Good morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0086par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, today at the Justice and Development Party group meeting, Prime Minister Davutoglu gave some information about agriculture. Likewise, the Minister of Agriculture, who is currently in negotiations, has continued this information. I'd like to tell you some facts now. They're going to raise the soy oil bonus from $10 per acre to $15. Dear friends, please listen carefully. All soy production in 12 years of AKP power is 804,000 tonnes, and the amount of soy imported in 12 years is 12.5 million tonnes. So you've imported 15 times what you've produced; you've given $11.5 billion out, and you've just thought of doing 15 liras per acre, bravo! The lentils are going to raise the bonus on the beans. In 2002, this country produced 565,000 tons of lentils, producing 417,000 tons of lentils today, so the production of lentils in your power has declined 150,000 tonnes. The production of baked beans has dropped from 250,000 tons to 195 thousand tons. Look, I'm going to put it all in numbers, it's TİK numbers. You're not gonna come in here and lecture me, you're gonna tell me these numbers are wrong, and I'm gonna take it. So, you've sunk the country's most traditional products, imports up from 817,000 tons to 317,000 tons, you're paying $37 million to $278 million in stock imports, and we're still good at it. They're going to increase the gas supply by 5%. My dear friends, we're tired of saying it. The indirect tax you received from the manufacturer's pocket on diesel alone is $9 billion, 500 million in support. So, what you're saying is that we're going to make it $550 million. You're only giving 1/20 of your taxes as support, and you're trying to trick the nation with it. You're talking about cover, fissile support. In 2014, it produced 16 million tons of bait, 6 million tons of raw materials imported from abroad, and you're still talking. There is one other thing you say: Sir, we are the first in Europe, we are the 7th in the world, according to what? We've said it 50 times, it's rude. It's not calculated by GDP numbers, it's calculated by fixed numbers, it's calculated by current numbers, and you're kidding yourself. Turkey is larger as a facial measurement from 10 countries entering the European Union on 1 May 2004. What are you comparing yourself to? With Lithuania or Latvia? Look, I'll tell you the countries you're going to compare: there's always a lot of speculation, the Netherlands exported 102 billion euros in 2013. Does he have any imports? Of course I do. The Minister of Agriculture always says: "He exports, but he imports." That's right, he does. How much is that? 66 billion euros. And you won't believe these numbers, these are the numbers I got from The Hague Trade Agency last week, so please check them out. Let me give you another number. France, for example. It has 60 billion euros exports, 48 billion euros imports, and France earns 12 billion euros a year in agriculture. Spain earns money from 61/47; 13 billion euros a year from agriculture. Do you know what you're like, the real you? It's all based on the CTO classification, not based on anything else. Here's what you're doing: you're down $5 billion a year in agricultural raw materials. When you count agriculture and food together, you're on your own. I'm asking you, my AKP MP friends, to rely on the data provided by the Ministry, we're the world's tops. Don't talk about it, we're more, we're exports. Don't talk about it. Here are the real numbers. The real figures, my friends, say: "We have rented 500,000 hectares from Sudan, where agriculture is falling down in this country with a population of 1 million people per year, the grower of this country is losing its fields, it's going to go bankrupt." The Ministry of Agriculture says: "We have rented 500,000 hectares from Sudan, and we will produce there." I think it's a lot to take in this country, and I'm paying all of your respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0087par0256	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Law shall be changed to 10/C-1, which is included in Article 10/C-1, which is included in Article 5996 to come after Article 10 of Article 5 of the Law under which Article 3 shall be adopted in accordance with the needs of its members when it is necessary to take advice and projecting services for the needs of its members. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0088par0269	Mr. President, we're talking about valuable lawmakers; we're really talking about farmers and manufacturers, but unfortunately, as we all know, the spear doesn't fit in the sack, the sun doesn't roll with clay, the farmer, the manufacturer is devastated. The farmer is going to be a producer, so there's going to be talk of farming troops, manufacturing unions. Minister, I have a proposition for you. Both the opposition and the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party support your work and actions regarding these appointments. What party is this Minister of Finance from? I know from the Justice and Development Party, not the National Movement Party, not the Republican People's Party. If you can't afford it, why don't we support it? As opposition, let's raise the number of 2,000 to the number you need. What do you say, Mr. Secretary? But you're laughing, thank you. I have another proposal: there are many agricultural engineers waiting for the appointment, there are veterinary doctors, there are technicians, there are water products engineers, there are food engineers, there are landscape architects, and there are millions of pieces that our government owns that are empty, and there are agriculture-appropriate government land. Come on, let's put in their custodians, let's all allocate these treasures to the agricultural engineers who are waiting for this appointment, vets, for a certain procedure. These lands are free of such danger as zoning, and they provide serious support for agriculture, add value, and increase employment, and increase production. I'd like to share this offer with you from here. Mr. Secretary, services are not failing. You say, "Well, I'll only give you a few examples, but only if you're a vet." Do you feel the need to privatise inoculations and earrings because the services have failed? You still can't stop the sub-stair production because the services haven't failed? Is it because the services are failing, and because you can't do enough inspections on food, food terrorism is running around in Turkey? Is it because the services haven't failed that the Ministry, where there's a minister of veterinary medicine, can still close markets, can be quarantined, and if they're giving you false information, please warn them. In Turkey, our people from tuberculosis and brusella moan. There, Mr. Ramadan nods his head. People know that, but you feed our people TB, you give them TB, you give them tuberculosis, and you feed them brusella meat. We're all going to have to do this together in the coming days, Mr. Secretary. Please, I'd like to draw your attention to these matters. We call it always bad, but there are also things that are done well. Afyonkarahisar, my constituency, has taken good steps in mandaling, which is the raw ingredient of what we call the essential of Afyon (Afyon) and sausage, a step that has been delayed in the restoration of the Anatolian buffalo, and I thank them from here, but they are still being delayed, but still not enough for support. There's a study of mass animalism, mass feeder, collective manga, but there's no place for it. I'm offering you a place from here: the mining research institute, formerly known as the Bigtepe Institute of Agricultural Research, known among the public as the Institute for Mandatory Research, is the best fit for this work, one of the first institutions that you closed down when you came to power. I mean, there's no need to look for a place, Minister. They're now assigned to the university, but they're almost breast-feeding there with 17 tanges, but our friends in Afyon have captured about 3 tons of manda during a lactation period, Mr. Minister. That's not a small number. It's really important to focus on that. Maybe he doesn't realize it, but the work of the Manda Growers Association in Afyon is truly, truly admirable. I especially ask you to support these. Due to the lack of time, we haven't been able to get into a lot of things that need to be entered into, but please listen to the problems of our friends who are waiting for the appointment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0089par0277	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are two motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The third sentence of Article 10/C of Article 10/C, which is expected to be added after Article 10 of the Union Health, Food and Food Law, and Article 10 of the Law, dated 11/06/2010, and is considered to be added after Article 10/C, shall be paid by the General Assembly at the cost of not crossing the upper limits of the ministry in exchange for services given to the members." We offer and offer to change it into form. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Gülser Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 653 Orders Numbered Bill. We would remove the clause's subsection of "the service price can be paid to the general board in exchange for services given to members" and propose that "the service fee for services given to members be added by the general council be added and offered. Alaatin Ascen Ramadan Kerim Özkan Doğan Dawn Mahmut Tanal Sedef Little Ilhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Doğan Şafak, Nüğde MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0090par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I would like to focus on the generality of the wrong policies in Turkey in the field of food, agriculture, animalism. Dear friends, the low growth rate in agriculture in the face of rapidly growing population points to Turkey's growing further and further away from the need for agriculture and food production. I'd like to give you some examples, Gökhan Morning mentioned a few points: the wheat fields are shrinking. Turkey produced 21 million tonnes of wheat in 2000, producing 19 million tonnes of wheat in 2014. In 2002, Turkey produced wheat in 93 million acres, while today it produces wheat at 78 million acres. Turkey imported 31 million tonnes of wheat during the AKP period, paying $9.2 billion for imports. Turkey imported 10 million tonnes of corn during this government period, paying $2.5 billion for imports. In this administration, oil seeds and derivatives were paid $24.5 billion in imports. During this administration, 9.4 million tonnes of cotton were produced and imported 8 million tons of cotton. Again, in this period of government, 804,000 tons of soy were produced, imported to 12.5 million tons of soy, and paid $5.3 billion for imports. Dear friends, tobacco is at an end. In 12 years, tobacco production has declined from 153,000 tonnes to 70,000 tonnes. THE privatisation of TEKEL (TECEL) has closed down 5/4 of the 6 cigarette factories. Tokat, Malatya, Bitlis, Adana and Istanbul factories do not produce. The farmer loses, the worker loses, the country loses. The sugar beets are narrowed down by quotas. The privatisation process has come to the point where, as in tobacco, it will end the sugar. Our temp workers, who have worked in sugar factories for years, are waiting for staff. We became importers in the beans. Dear friends, over the last ten years, 27 million, 825,64 acres, which have hit 2 million,573 thousand football fields, have been lost to construction. In animal politics, the wrongs also kill the feeder, leaving the consumer without protein. In 1980, 16 million cattle were 14.4 million today, and in 35 years we lost one of our 2 sheep. Today, we have around 9 million goats with 19 million in 1980. Mera, our presence has been reduced to half of its level 50 years ago. Turkey has imported 3.5 million head of living animals in the last four years. Zero interest-related credit support leads to a misappropriation of nutrients. In the controlled credit process, the price of animals has risen and has been tied to the stable by buying a breeding animal; immediately after a massive import process began, the prices of animals have dropped and the feeder has started to suffer. Dear friends, expensive diesel, expensive fertilizer, expensive bait, Turkey's agriculture and animalism are troubling. In agriculture, prices of diesel, fertilizer, and bait must be reduced immediately in favour of the farmer. Members of parliament, thousands of agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, food engineers, who have graduated from the university as a result of the narrowing agricultural policy -- are waiting for assignments and jobs, as our friends say. Today, over tens of thousands of our engineers are idle in every field. Finally, some of the apple manufacturers in the Niğde region were paid for donal damage and other manufacturers were not paid for in the same conditions, Dündarlı, Hacıbeyli, Sazlıca region -- in the fruits -- in Niğde Bahçeli and other towns. The same issue has caused the droughtless wheat producers the same problem -- especially the Ulukish and Armless village. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0091par0315	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The third sentence of Article 10/C of Article 10/C, which is expected to be added after Article 10 of the Union Health, Food and Bait Law, and is dated 11/06/201, and is considered to be added after Article 10 of the Law on Food and Feed, shall be paid for the service of the Ministry, provided it does not cross the upper borders for services given to the Member States." We provide and propose to change it into form. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: "In addition to the services provided by members, the service fee can be paid by the general board in exchange for the services provided by the members." The sentence represents a uncertainty. This motion aims to address this uncertainty and to bring an upper limit to the services. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 5/D-1, which is added to Article 10/D-1 to come after Article 10 of Article 5 of Article 5996, under the current 653, Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Act, we offer "Unitality, 24/4/1969, and all kinds of tax and tuition exemptions to Co-ops established according to the Act 1163." Adnan Şik ugly scholar Emin Çınar Ali Halaman Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th Amendment of the current 653 Orders Numbered Bill. In addition to the subsection 10/D-3 of the clause, we request and demand the addition of the declaration "United States are exempted from institutional tax due to their work and transactions." Ramazan Kerim Özkan Doğan Şaş İlhan Demiröz Namik Havutça Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Selahtin Karaahmetoglu, Giresun MP who wants to speak on the proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0092par0352	Mr. President, members of the law, I have taken a pledge on Article 5 of the Law Bill 653. On this occasion, I salute you all. Co-operatives and troops are democratic organizations that gather the sweat, labor, the value of their labor, the value of their labor, and are essential elements of democracy. To understand the importance of co-operatives and troops, we need to evaluate the economic order of the world. In the early 1990s, the world fell from two economic models to one economic model; the capitalist imperial system remained alone in the world, and the new world order, called globalization, set new policies. These policies have affected every aspect of life, as well as agriculture. These policies have two fundamental elements: one is change, and the other is freedom. The change has been perceived by humans, by countries, by those who want it, as surrendering to global powers, and the other is freedoms. Who's the freedom for? Freedoms were meant to pave the way for capital, to lift borders, to remove customs, to pave the way for the free movement of capital, but it was not allowed to organise labor. In this sense, the importance of cooperativeism and troops is once again revealed today. In 1980, in Giresun, my colleague and 50 pharmacists founded the Black Sea Pharmaceuticals Cooperative. We put 50 pharmacists in joint capital and opened our co-op. We started this life by handing out the drugs equally to 50 pharmacies. As a result, we removed the middleman, began to become a co-operative economic force in the process, and we began to take drugs more efficiently from pharmaceutical capital in the interest of pharmacists. It's an event that I've told you about my life and about the importance of co-operativeism in some way. There is a union in Giresun, Giresunlu, and the life of the nut maker. In 2006, one of the 17 troops in the country, FİSKOBIRKIKLE, was not given a loan from the treasure, and the remaining 16 were given 700 trillion. However, if there had been 100 trillion loans from FİSKOBIRKIKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİRKİKİKİ, the money that FİSKOBİKİKİKİKİKİKİ, the money that the FİSKOBİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ, the money that has given to this country, even 53 trillion loanskİRİKİRİRİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ, then would not be in a dead situation today. Today, FESSION is in trouble, and the manufacturers are now in a position to contribute as a capital debt. If they don't make that contribution, then the financial general boards will fall because they can't, and that cooperative will, unfortunately, be shut down. Today, with the policies of power, with the policies that it has taken, unfortunately, political choice is theirs, we have no right to interfere with it, but they pass all practices, practices and plans in the interest of capital through this Parliament, and they condemn producers to be left alone, to be powerless, and to be crushed in the face of capital. In Italy, Spain, Azerbaijan, Georgia, the production of nuts is high, the policy that American almonds are alternative to nuts has been tried to keep base prices low at all times, and the producer is trying to remove the nuts from his hands. In fact, this year, the bottom prices are being shown again by the stock markets and the trade rooms, although they're low on nuts because of the frosts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, I'm out of time, I can see it from across the street. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0093par0363	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 5/D-1, which is added to Article 10/D-1 to come after Article 10 of Article 5 of Article 5996, under the current 653, Veterinarian Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Act, we offer "Unitality, 24/4/1969, and all kinds of tax and tuition exemptions to Co-ops established according to the Act 1163." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Yes, Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion, the MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0094par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In our country, peasants and farmers are having a hard time. During the AKP's rule, overextended entry prices and import-based policies have made it difficult to produce. Our farmer, who can't sell the product that he produces, and who is bent by high input costs, especially diesel and fertilizer, is in a state of misery by folding loans to banks. Even the human life is so common that it can't even afford the income from our farmers' products. Our farmers view the harvest as a time when they can pay off their debts, not to gain income. The measures that will solve the structural problems of the agricultural sector, reduce the burden of agricultural input and raise the agricultural sector must be taken, but the government insists on being insensitive as problems grow in agriculture. Our farmer is out of the interest and support of AKP power. The AKP government doesn't care about the farmer's situation. The Minister of Agriculture is here, let's ask you right now: Mr. Minister, we have a province called Konya, which is our country's grain warehouse, known as the capital of agriculture, and a plain. I was wondering if you know anything about this place. Do you know what's going on with the tanning farmer? Let us go together to our nearest counties, Kulu. Let us go together to Jahhanbeyli. If you have time, let us walk together to Yunak, Akşehire, Beyşehirre, Sejdşehir, Chumra, Karapınar, Ereğli, and all of the Konya Plains. But you can't, you can't, because you don't have the face or the courage to go to the farmer. It's a fact that the most fundamental problem with agriculture and livestock is high input costs. Farmers can't use enough input because the inputs are expensive, which has a negative effect on efficiency. Under heavy input costs, our farmer has no power to maintain production. Today, villages are empty and the villages have no manufacturers left. Our farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel and fertilizer. Mr. Secretary, why don't you give the logistics firms, the yachts, the jeans, the shiploads of cheap diesel to our farmer who makes it worth adding? It's the same amount of gas that the farmer uses for luxury cars and jeeps. Isn't that unfair? The farmer and the manufacturer must be able to get their basic entries cheaply. Therefore, taxes must be removed on diesel, fertilizer, bait, and other inputs used in agricultural production. The AKP government is electrifying the farmer as well as all our citizens. Almost half of electricity bills are generated by illegal electricity money and tax and funds. And that's not enough. Companies who can't keep up with their lost electricity smuggling targets appear to be billing our citizens, our farmers, extra money. The money stolen by others should not be made payable to our honest citizens, nor should the money paid for by illegal electricity be returned to us. Millions of our people working in agriculture have been clamped by banks. Our farmer's debts grow exponentially every year. Our farmer is in debt. According to BDK data, agricultural loans to banks exceeded 42 billion liras as of September 2014. Despite loan renovations and restructurings, the following loans have increased to $1 billion 376 million. As problems are growing in the rapidly growing agriculture area, many farmers have to sell their tractor, their field, to pay off their debt. Honourable lawmakers are also not compensated for the damage caused by the farmer's disasters. For reasons such as snow, underpants, and floods, in many counties, our farmers have suffered alarming damage. According to the Agricultural Insurance Act, producers who do not have agricultural insurance for specified risks are unable to benefit from the Law on Aids to Farmers Who Are Damaged by Disasters. In our country, agricultural insurance has not improved much. Agriculture insurance has many problems, especially the property issue. We have very few farmers who have farm insurance, and practice is very low. Just because he didn't get agricultural insurance, the damage to our farmers should not be ignored. Of course, there must be an arrangement that will at least partially compensate for the victims of the farmers and peasants because of the disasters. In order for assistance to be made, the requirement for damage to products, live-and-alive production tools and facilities by at least 40 per cent is absolutely necessary. The necessary legal arrangement must be made. Basically, a comprehensive support package must be put into effect for our farmer immediately. I wish the bill was a blessing, I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit04spe0095par0387	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0095par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 653. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 6th and 11th articles. Adnan Safik Güçük, Hatay MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the second part.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0096par0007	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, again, I'm late for something that concerns the farmer. I'll share that with you. Now, here, together -- let all Turkey hear this -- we proposed a law on electricity debt from all political parties and farmers at 3:00 in the morning, and it was a beautiful pardon, wasn't it? Now, what kind of business is this that we're paying off the company? I mean, this is what we owe the government, not the private energy company. We're taking him, we're petitioning him -- we're, I'm -- he's about to be pardoned for our own debt to electricity. Who? This energy company. The employee at the company is losing the petition, and we can't take advantage of the pardon. Now, is that what's gonna happen? I mean, why would the Ministry hand over what they get to the company? Ever since that company's understanding of electricity, energy, at least it's taken over, it's been a pain in the ass for our ruling deputies.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0097par0010	I wish you'd said Hasan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0096par0011	Sir?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0097par0012	Hassana, he'll take care of it.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0096par0013	Exactly. So the power goes out, this power company doesn't have personnel.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0098par0015	That's where Hasan collapsed when he left.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0096par0016	Yeah, yeah. Is Mr. Hasan here? No. If it were Mr. Hasan Akgöl, he'd take care of things. Such an understanding. The news just came in, lucky for us, so hopefully we'll have a very healthy conversation. Anyway, let's get back to it. Of course, I'm not the only one. I mean, who knows what else a private company's employees have done to such idleness, such recklessness, taking over an entire company. Now, sir, I'm from Hatay. Thus, the main engine of Hatay agriculture is cotton; it supports about 10 million people from field to counter. In 2000, 130,000 people were dealing with cotton agriculture, but now we see that this number has dropped to 75,000. As of 2013, we have 800,000 tons of production. As of 2001, if I remember correctly, it was 1,400,000 tons, and now the need is over 1.5 million tons. I mean, why does the number of farmers grow cotton drop? Snow production, of course, why does it fall with this? Besides, there's a little bit of a drought, a drought... for example, according to the information on the Amik Plains, it falls from 110,000 to 63,000. We're looking at the cost of the log production, which is the area of cotton production, 1,400-1. 600 lira. How much are we selling this for? $1,000, $1.100, if you have a high rate. Now, what do we get? A lot. Support 500. Mr. Secretary, this support should be worth a thousand liras. Cotton support shouldn't be less than a thousand liras, it won't save you, it won't save you; we're burned. If you talk less, Chief, let's give it to him. I'll get off right away. If he promises, Mr. Secretary, I'll leave the podium immediately. Now, usually, it's hard on agriculture ministers when it comes to agricultural issues, but that's not fair. So here, those who don't give the money are the finance ministers; of course, it's the government's view of the farmer, along with the finance ministers. The finance minister gives it to everyone, but for some reason, it's cheap when it comes to the farmer. In fact, it is necessary to negotiate agriculture in front of the Minister of Finance. I mean, personally, I know about Mr. Minister of Agriculture -- and I know about some things, but at least I know about him -- against the farmer -- the drought, for example. Look, the lottery wasn't getting into disaster, we reminded him of it here on the stand, and he said, "Well, the drought went into disaster, or it wouldn't have happened, and therefore, many farmers, including us, have filed reports from the drought and at least delayed farm loans and things. Now, we're looking at the rate of growth in agriculture, the 2001 crisis period, minus 7.9, but the government that we're in has collected this agriculture in one year, plus 8.8. Today, the 2013 number is 3.5. That's what the numbers show, he says. In agriculture, employment has been reduced from 36 per cent to 23 per cent. Of course, I also have bad news for Hatay: by bad, Hatay became the 1st in the ranks of farmers who couldn't pay their debts, Artvin the 2nd, Alzızıp the 3rd. That's the number we've got ahead of us. Adana's business is better than ours, Mr. Muharrem. Now, in this case, we need a reform on farmers and especially cotton. So olives and olives are better than us? No, this year the olives cost a little money, because there are no olives. The milk cost a little money, because there's no milk, there's a drought, the bait is short. So that's the price hikes from the lack. For example, Yaylatı: This is a place that usually lives on olives, fruitism, and a little bit of tobacco. When we realized the trouble of our Yayladakı district of Hatay, we, the 57th government, laid the groundwork for the road that had not been thrown out for many years, since we knew that the main values of its origins were the Way of Yayladagı, and your government, the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, had finished it, and brought it to an end. But as we laid the foundation of this road, we also considered the Crossroad Border Gate. So this border gate was sort of going to work like our Reyhan. Today all the border gates are open, sir, and all the gates of ISIS, al Qaeda, Al Nusra, and that which is in the hand of this one, are open, but the rampart border gate is closed. This is of no use to Yayladıklı, and the opening of that border crossing does no harm to Turkey. We're asking for it, and we're bringing it up on this occasion. Our Hassa still lives on some olives and grapes, and it's a disaster. The Four Ways, the narc, the bong, the tangerine, the orange, they're devastated. Mr. Secretary, we need to develop a special program for the citrus and give that support directly to the citrus. There's a problem there. Of course, all of this requires a reform package for the farmer. The farmer's issue, especially in this parliament, needs to be sat down and debated for several hours, a commission in which all opposition parties are involved, a reform, and a development of the farmer. I say it every chance I get, it's the farmer's condition. When Mr. Muharrem was just talking about the animal's condition, he said that even though he spent all his money, he took the animal's head, the arm, the kidney, the thing, and the rest of the animal man had carbs. But the animal man's vote falls to the AKP, and there's a freak like that. My animal brother, my cotton brother, my peanut brother, my nut brother, my sunflower brother, my potato brother; if you're happy with yourself, don't waste your breath on us, go ahead. My compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0099par0035	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker on the episode is Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0100par0039	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, we're coming to the end of the 24th term. In Turkey, we all need an objective assessment of the agricultural sector, which we can only discuss the facts. Because agriculture is a strategic sector in all the countries of the world, and as Turkey, we have to meet the requirements of this strategic sector. We're the main opposition party today, there's the Justice and Development Party in power, yes, the National Movement Party, the HDP are sitting in opposition lines, but we need to come back to a common opinion on agriculture. We cannot complete this period by saying the words that we are all tired of repeating to each other. In that case, it is now time for someone to finally invite the Assembly to a speech on behalf of a group, a speech that everyone can accept and draw the horizon for all of us. My dear friends, please check all of what I'm saying from the data of the Turkish Statistical Agency, and if I am twisting a single number as an opposition MP on this stand, please advise me as soon as I sit down. A reckoning of 12 years of AKP power is required. See, there's an increase in plant production only in corn, only in sunflowers and only in tics, these three products. Should we congratulate him? Yeah. To Egypt, to whomever put forward the policies of the rise in production, and for sunflowers, congratulations should be made, for example, to our agricultural engineer friend, who does that seed reforming in the pot. Well, when I say that, I now have to express other facts. Do you enjoy being a citizen and MP of a country that produces 4 million tons of average wheat a year? Don't nobody try to explain this to me in the export of flour. I'll give you a new number: The money this country pays for wheat imports in 12 years is $9.2 billion, and the money it makes from flour exports is $6.5 billion. No country in the world imports raw materials, exports processed materials, and loses money. Only Turkey does that. Then we need Turkey to understand who's pulling tricks here, in the matter of wheat and in the export of flour, and someone to supervise it. If the Department of Agriculture won't do it, who will? I'll give you another number: does Turkey make cotton? Yes, he does. The amount of cotton produced by Turkey during your twelve-year period is 9.5 million tonnes, and the amount of cotton it imports is 8 million tons. I'm asking you again, as lawmakers in this House, are we happy to be politicians of a country that imports as much cotton as it produces, and we're not going to hold someone responsible? More painfully, is it good to be the son of a country that pays $4 quadrillion a year for cotton imports alone? Cotton has been drawn from the Aegean, cotton from the Mediterranean, and cotton has only become a product of Southeast Anatolia. Let me tell you about soy production. It's 804,000 tons of all soy that can be produced in twelve years. Do you guys know how much it's imported? If you don't believe me, it's 12.5 million tons. One country produces 804,000 tonnes; it imports 12.5 million, and the Minister of Agriculture boasts about signing its 11th budget. Don't we have to do an accounting for all this? Only CHP MPs, opposition lawmakers, will answer for this? Shouldn't AKP lawmakers, ruling party lawmakers who have been here not ask for the account of the department's lack of 200,000 tons of soy production that they've been authorising for 12 years? Shouldn't we all consider all this together? Your Prime Minister says today: "We will support lentils and beans with bonuses." See if you can't stretch 100 thousand tons in both products during your time of power. Not long ago, 15 years ago, didn't he fill this country with chickpeas and lentils in the framework of the Nadas Restriction Project? They even made fun of me because they made the baklava with lentils. Because he didn't buy green lentils, he wanted yellow lentils, we sold them to India as yellow lentils, breaking the shell of the green lentils. Now, isn't importing green lentils, beans from India, Canada, Ethiopia, anyone's blood? We're not going to answer for this, but who are my dear friends? [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, once a veterinarian, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, comes to talk, he'll almost convince me. I'll give you a number: in 1980 the population of this country was 44 million, today 77 million; each year we increased a million people in this country. In 1980, we had 50 million sheep, and today we have 29 million sheep; one of each sheep we lost. We had 19 million goats, and today we have 9 million goats; of each two goats we lost one. We had 16 million cattle, 14 million cattle, 2 million less cattle. We had 1 million buffaloes -- friends thank you -- 118 thousand buffaloes remained; out of every 10 buffalos, the land lost nine. Now, if you ask the Minister of Agriculture, he says: "There has been an increase in the presence of living animals in the last period of our power. He thinks we won't look at the numbers. How many living animals have you imported in the last four years? You import 3.5 million living animals; you import 2 million sheep, 1.5 million cattle, so you have increased the wealth of living animals. What you say is unfortunately what you import. We don't forget, they've given you the Legion of Honor from France, so you're wearing the engagement of France. You know why? You took aim from France because you supported French agriculture. I've always asked: "Go and get one from Amasya. Take it from Suluova. Or go and get it from Thrace. What kind of medal would the farmer choose to give you? We have to talk about all this together. My dear friends, look, livestock is in a position in Turkey where it can't stand if it isn't imported. And I'll tell you another sad truth. I say: A citizen of the Republic of Turkey consumes seven kilograms of red meat a year. The Minister of Agriculture is correcting me, saying: "It's not 7 kilograms, it's 12 kilograms." Well, let that be true this time, it's 12 kilograms. Do you know how much a European average consumes? It consumes 77 kilograms. The average European... GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ 13, 13. He's fixing it because he's 13, and that's where the Agricultural Minister's seriousness is, folks. His 70 percent, the pig in Europe, the pig in Europe, tell me about it. Correction, well, you say 13th, I'll say 13. On average, a 70-pound European... 70 percent of what Europeans eat is pigs, pigs. Mr. Secretary, when I'm done, you'll come here, you'll talk, you won't get anywhere talking like that. Come on, don't give me false information!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0101par0057	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0100par0058	Instead of saying things like that, work, work, work, let the country come to a place. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A European average consumes 77 kilograms of red meat, the Turkish consumes 13 kilograms; the Minister of Agriculture says 13 kilograms. He says he will be ashamed of it: but they eat pork there. My brother, you also substitute with the flesh of sheep, and who is holding his hand? You make these people import meat for $10, but no one can eat a pound less than $25. You know why? We know who made the imports, we know which of the supporters had their pockets full, we know what kind of importer's organization the Meat and Fish Foundation has been made into. Why did I start with those words? I'm not speaking as an opposition MP, I've told you about the increase in production, but I've put you in full reality the report on Turkey's agriculture. I'm speaking to my fellow AKP MP friends: Ask the account of this Minister of Agriculture, who has been living in this ministry for 11 years and has left poor peasants unsupported, rather than reforming agriculture. If you don't ask for his account, Turkey will unfortunately continue to be unable to feed as an importer country. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0102par0065	Thank you. Lütfü Türkkan has asked for a personal word on the episode. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0103par0069	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of my fellow lawmakers regarding Veterinary Services 653, Plant Health, Food and Food Law Amendment. I salute your high council. When the law is about vets, I don't think it's safe to say that they've had a long-standing ordeal here. They're in trouble, and we're not? We're doing it differently. Every time we open it on social media, the vets have at least 50 demands. It must be the same for you. I really think they're in trouble. The vets are waiting for a staff, waiting for an appointment, folks. They're victims, just like many of our unemployed young people. The vets haven't had new jobs in a long time. I'm saying something from the start. There's no way the government's gonna get jobs for every college. Including the teacher, including other trade groups. There's no country like this. Greece has opened an officer or worker staff to each citizen in the state. He went down as a state because he couldn't open different jobs in the private sector. What the government has to do is clear the way for a private sector that will open up jobs. Otherwise, it wouldn't be easy to hire this government if you were to hire a contract staff like you did, and then set up 300,000 people in the government. I mean, I'm not talking about the exceptions. But I want you to listen to the demands of the vets. Because the members of Justice and Development Party MPs and party members are being brought to important tasks without a test. V.I.P. torpedo claims have come to light, and there are secret accounts of the removal of the KPSS (KPS) just because the members of the Justice and Development Party cannot win. This is the face of the locket, and I draw your attention to that. The vets who successfully finish the schools they're studying, the vets who are working, they want the rights staff. Because water products, food engineers and veterinarians expect 20,000 appointments from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 50,000 engineers are waiting for an appointment from the relevant ministries. I'm telling these engineer friends one more thing from here: keep them taking chances in the private sector. It's the government's job to clear the way for the private sector. Mr. Secretary, in particular, continue to encourage or increase private sector organizations in your field. There are 20,000 empty staff in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, Mr. Secretary. It's not right not to be appointed. They're not going to be a burden on the budget, they're going to be a challenge. They want to perform their professions, they want to use their energy and savings as support for Turkey's development. Why can't you hear their voices? Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to give up the night guard of this separatist terrorist organization. You know very well about agriculture, you're one of the people who knows well about Turkey. Spend your shift on it. Because there is much work to be done in Turkey. Look, ten years ago in Germany, only 250,000 tons of canola were added. Do you know how much Germany planted in canola last year? Eight million tons. So the Germans even started planting canolas in the flowerpot. That canola meets the country's need for protein and contributes substantially to the country's imports by supporting fuel under the name fucking biodiesel, which destroys air pollution along with its oil. I think you're gonna make it, I think you are, but please, waste your time. Look, six years ago it was 250 thousand tons in Ukraine again. Do you know how much it was last year? 3,400,000 tons. Canola is 2.5 million tons. So in seven years, they've come from about 500,000 tons to 6 million tons. It's possible for us to do that. As long as you believe in it and put your shift into it, please, I'm asking you. Don't support or contribute to the actions of these separatist terrorist groups to divide the country. The state of Turkey, the nation of Turkey, expects more work from you. I'm counting on your professional skills, but please, spend your time on this. I give all of you respect with these thoughts and feelings. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0104par0080	Thank you. Tanju Özcan, member of the Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm one of the MPs who's been watching the negotiations since the beginning. I'd like to make a brief point here. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you know, I've been carrying your picture for about two years, and I have a picture of you in the trunk of my vehicle, about one to one. You know, Mr. Good Morning just told me your French name, and I'm walking around with that photo of you with that top-service medal you got from the French state. They've got you in a weird outfit there, too. Sure, what do I do with it? We have 490 villages in my constituency, and I've been to 476, and I've taken this picture out of every village. They're looking at you, Mehdi Eker, in a weird outfit with a big medal around your neck. When I ask this medal, it's actually much easier to tell the villagers about your economic policies or your agricultural policies. Indeed, Mr. Minister -- the esteemed AKP MPs -- I'm telling you this -- if a country's Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey is receiving a service medal superior to the state of France, France, our peasant, God bless our farmer, you've contributed a great deal, you've done an important service. If he gives you a medal, I really think there's nothing to applaud, there's really nothing to be ashamed of. Mr. Secretary, I voted last week that the ministers who were involved in this corruption vote should be tried in the Supreme Court, but it seems that only because of this medal, you should be tried for treason in the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0106par0087	That's a bit much, Tanju.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0088	Is that even possible? Millions of Turkish villagers will suffer, not pay for the animals in the barn, not pay for the milk, import live animals from France, get medals from them, and as a result, we will act as if nothing had happened. Mr. Secretary, look, I have a proposition for you, a sincere offer. I made this offer to our Minister of the Forest before, and he wouldn't take it. What did you say? Look, you're saying: I did this for the Turkish peasant, I did this. Look, let's go to a village in my constituency, we'll talk to the villagers, you tell them what you've done. We know the sequel. God bless you, Mr. Secretary, in the coffeehouse or mosque room. We laughed at you at the time. We were able to marry our children freely because of your policies. We have no debt to the banks. God bless you. I'm going to quit being a member of the parliament that day. Are you up for that? Do you have that kind of courage? Mr. Secretary, look, I'm a member of the public. I've been to 490 villages at least once, and I've been there at least once. When was the last time you actually went to an Anatolian village as Minister of Agriculture?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0107par0095	Why didn't you go to the others? GEDA, WHO voted for MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir)?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0097	Well, Mr. Secretary, there are some ministers in the Cabinet that I don't like, but there's not one that's as hostile as you are. Why are you laughing? Really, you give the peasant the most expensive diesel in the world, you give him the most expensive fertilizer, you give him the agricultural medicine, and then you sit there in that minister's chair, if you don't mind, laughing. What are you laughing at? Is there a Turkish peasant to laugh at? She's gonna cry. You're so funny, I'm laughing at him.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0107par0099	He's laughing at your speech.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0108par0100	He's laughing at you.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0101	What's he laughing at me for? I'm talking about real problems here, guys. I don't believe there are as many of you as I do who go to villages in their constituency these days.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0107par0102	No way!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0108par0103	Oh, dear!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0104	I'm talking to the peasant, I'm living, I'm sitting with them, I'm talking to them.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0108par0105	The most hardworking minister!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0106	Well, well, then, friends, what village are you going to?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0108par0107	What village are you going to?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0108	Are you going to Kadıköy, where are you going?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0108par0110	Should I count it?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0109par0111	We see you all the time on Baghdad Street!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0105par0112	Go to a real Anatolian village, where the peasant will tell you: "Friends, it's not worth all the money." He'll say, "The animal on the roof isn't worth anything." He'll say, "The animal on the roof is not worth anything." I'll tell you in a peasant accent.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0110par0114	I'm in the animal every day, every day!
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0111par0115	Republic village, Alibahadir, Pashamandira...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0112par0116	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0113par0117	Guys, let's not get into this...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0111par0118	I'll give you the name of the village, which one do you want?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0113par0119	Look, you guys can have a very tight relationship with big dairy owners.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0111par0120	We didn't.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0113par0121	I'm trying to explain to you the suffering of a man with two head animals in his barn. When was the last time you went to a house like this?
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0114par0122	We went yesterday, yesterday.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0111par0123	We went yesterday, yesterday.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0113par0124	When did you really shake that peasant's hand? Did he really say, "God bless you, I'm so happy with my life?"
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0111par0126	Beykoz Bozhane village, Öğümce village, Göllü village, Pashamandira, Değirmendere...
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0113par0127	Friends, Mr. Secretary, I expect you to apologize to the Turkish peasant and leave this post before June 7th.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0115par0129	Yes, thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are four motions on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that veterinary Services Number 1/983, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Law Amendment be removed from the item text of Article 6 of the 10/E clause added to Code 5996 after Article 10 or to be appointed for inspection in the first sentence of Article 10/E. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mahmut Tanal Ramazan Kerim Özkan İlhan Demirözeş Recep Special Bayram Özçelik Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ramazan Can Frame 6 of the Law Bill 653 rows. Article 10/E of Article 3. We offer and propose that a year's notice be changed to six months' notice, more than three months' notice mentioned in the joke. Adnan Şişek Ugly scholar İşim Kemalettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the current 653 Numbers Bill. We propose and propose the removal of the subsection of the article, which states: "In addition to informing the Ministry of the audit results, the central troops can also oversee their membership through their control rules." Ramazan Kerim Özkan Doğan Şafak Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demirözüs Namık Havutça Bursa Balıkesir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 693 and Article 11/06/2010 of the proposed law bill of 653 rows, the "expermanence" shall be added before Article 5996's Veterinarian Services, Union Health, Food and Food and Feed Law 10th Article, and shall be added to the article "in which Article 10/E" shall be added and released from the text of the fourth joke, which is in its third joke, "in case it should be condemned." Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Gülser Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: This motion is intended to be carried out through expert personnel, which requires a specific expertise, and that the department's executives and the members of the troops' board of directors be suspended, removed from office, and other competencies be subject to a court order. Thus, without a court order, it is intended only to prevent his dismissal by order of the Ministry. This motion also aims to prevent loan-giving institutions and organisations from controlling the troops directly while there are public institutions in charge of it. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0116par0168	We're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2015-01-27sit05spe0115par0169	After that, the Republican People's Party motion has been withdrawn. Now, I'm having the National Party's motion read: Frame 6 of the 653 Numbered Bill of Law. Article 10/E of Article 3. We offer and propose that a year's notice be changed to six months' notice, more than three months' notice mentioned in the joke. Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: With this arrangement, some of the problems that can be experienced in the application are aimed at preventing and resolving uncertainty. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that veterinary Services Number 1/983, Plant Health, Food and Food and Feed Law Amendment be removed from the item text of Article 6 of the 10/E clause added to Code 5996 after Article 10 or to be appointed for inspection in the first sentence of Article 10/E. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Article provisions containing issues relating to the control of reform-purpose growers' units and other personnel testimony to be appointed for inspection outside inspector and controllers can lead to wrong practices in implementing them. Therefore, the audit will be appropriate by means of inspectors or controllers who are in charge and in charge of the legislation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the 7th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Following the declaration of Veterinarian Services No. 653, Plant Health, Food and Food and Bait Law Amendment, we propose and propose that "the union be excluded from the working conditions" of Article 10/F-1, which is added to the Law under Article 596, under Article 10/F-1, which is incumbent (1). Adnan Şişek Ugly Scholar Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Ali Halaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: With the dissolution of the reform-pursuing and dissolving breeders, the general decision of the bankruptcy has been made, adding "out of the working condition" to the matter, while the number of members may fall below the number of management and control boards. This condition, which is in other units, is also required to be applied to the breeding units for rehabilitation. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 9 of the same nature, which I will read and process together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "United States must be replaced within six months and central units within nine months," the statement of Veterinary Services No. 653, Plant Health, Food and Food and Bait Law. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ilm Adnan Şişek Güçük Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Doğan Kubat The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We're leaving it to appreciation. Government? We agree, Mr. President. I'm having the reasons read separately: At the time of the implementation of this clause, it has been mandatory that the development of animal breeding units and central units will continue their activities, but that their main contracts should be adopted in accordance with regulations and fundamentals set out by the Ministry. However, the "six months" for the troops given during the arrangement of the bill and the "nine months" transition process for the central units are limited. It is intended to be separated for a longer period of transition to the Union. I'm reading the other reason: This motion aims to extend the prerequisite period to ensure that the current troops meet their main contracts in accordance with regulations to be adopted by the Ministry, and to block any negatives that may be caused by timelessness. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. Our working time is complete. Therefore, it is Wednesday, January 28, 2015, that we discuss the bill and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
