tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Yeah, I'm making a surprise and... There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[Applause]] I'm doing this kind of favor to get rid of the image of a zero teacher. Now we're just stopping the noise, Reverends, because three of my friends are prepared, and they'll share their views with you. Out of respect for them, I repeat, my fellow lawmakers, let's stop humming.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0002par0007	He's not coming to face me, Mr. President. That's how it is.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0001par0008	You know, I've got to keep giving zeros, but I've always seen the teachers -- there's Nur Hodja, there's Zuhal Hodja -- so we thought we'd do him a favor. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Münir Kutluata, a member of the Sakarya MP who wants to talk about public services and administrative weaknesses in Sakarya province. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0003par0016	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. I have made a promise to the state of Sakarya about the failing public services and the weakness of governance. We know that the weaknesses of governance in local governments in the provinces are mainly due to weakness in central government, and we also know that the agenda of power captured by gangs of corruption and separatism separates from the public's agenda and the Turkish nation's agenda. Thus, the resulting weakness of governance is an extraordinary failure to provide services and investments in the provinces. From this sentence, I want to touch the problems of Sakarya as much as I can. However, most of our MPs will see that similar problems occur in their own provinces. The setbacks in health care in Sakarya are obvious examples of the AKP's government making the patient a customer, the healers a boss, and the system that it calls a transformation in health and is trying to build is going to go bankrupt. I'd like to say that health care that doesn't bring money in our province -- like intensive care, emergency, the condition of cancer patients -- is extraordinary, there's a shortage of beds, and we're busy every day transferring these patients to neighboring cities. I believe most of you remember the last time Sakarya Obstetrics and Children's Hospital came up with problems, inadequacies. This is an example of the failure of the health system in Sakarya. On the other hand, the state's spending and spending has started shutting down district health institutions, county hospitals, county state hospitals. A serious example of this is being held in our district of Kobai. Can you imagine: the state built hospitals, the county waited many years, went into service, went into service, was soon brought to the closing point. It's not just Sakarya's problem. It is the bankruptcy of the system in Turkey that makes health a means of profit. Precious lawmakers, one of the problems that will set an important example of the failures in Sakarya, Turkey, is known as the Adapazari Express. We see the mental infrastructure of the train expedition, which has a history of over a hundred years, is to be removed three years ago as an excuse to build a fast train, and now, not inside Adapazari, but in the campaign from Arifih district, to watch and shut it down. And because he didn't do it publicly, because he didn't do it openly, because he tried to make it easy on himself, that's why we criticize power. We see that our local governments do not take this seriously and are trying to bring some kind of polarity between the Railways and themselves to a complete closure. On the other hand, the problem of power cuts in Sakarya, which is happening all over Turkey, is very serious. I've told you before, when it rains, when it snows, when the wind blows, the electricity goes out and the heating stops in the city that heats up with natural gas, the number of diseases increases. However, the citizens are constantly knocking on the door of the power distribution company there, and local executives are blocking developments to get them to the door of the AKP. But the citizen knows that because electricity distribution companies cannot invest in electricity, they are not controlled because of their relationship with power, and these setbacks are not prevented. These examples are much more likely to be increased, and since we did not have time to express them, I tried to give an example of all our provinces as examples of what happened on the coast of Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Musa Çama, the İzmir MP who asked for the use of the right to strike in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're not a teacher, are you?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0005par0031	I, sir, am a commoner. Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a promise of strike rights. Workers have the right to strike in the event of conflict, according to Article 54 of our Constitution. It continues, but we see clearly and clearly that the right to strike during the 13-year period of AKP's power has not been used. Around nine times during the 13 years of AKP's rule, strikes were postponed in mines, metals, tires, and glass workings. Now, on August 1st, a collective contract talks began, covering about 80-90,000 workers working in the metal business sector in Turkey. There was a collective agreement process with approximately 89,000 workers, including Turkish-government METAL, PRIFY and DİSK Union. Meetings were held with the MESS, with the METAL AGENTS Union. As a result of the talks and talks, the Turkish-İHK METAL SENSE of Turkey and the PRICOS Union signed the collective contract. As a result of these talks with the DİSK Union, the workers were unable to agree with MESS, as part of the commitment and decision principle, to increase the collective contract from two years to three years, to a minimum wage of £1.200 for a humane living fee, and to a collective contract of inflation in Turkey, the cost of life, the attitude and behavior of economic and social rights, and the procedure reached the stage of the strike. On the 29th of January and 29 January, the Union's METAL-HIS Union launched a strike covering about 15,000 workers at about 41 workplaces. It's a constitutional right because if they hadn't gone on strike, they would have lost the authority to sign a collective contract. On the second day of the strike, a law was issued in the number of times of the Official Gazette of the Council of Ministers on the 30th, says the Council of Ministers met on January 29th and postponed the strike for sixty days on the grounds that the strike, which includes 15,000 workers working in the metal business sector, was a disrupter of national security. Now, here are two basic points: One, is it really affecting national security in the metal industry, in the automobile industry, in the refrigerator, in the washing machine, in the microwave, in the iron-chem, what is preventing national security that the Council of Ministers gathers and delays the strike by making it a national security reason? Second, have the Council of Ministers really met or not? Now, we have two very valuable ministers here, Mr. Veysel Eroglu and Mr. National Minister of Education. I'd like to ask them: did the Council of Ministers meet on January 29th and make such a decision, friends? But according to our data, it is clear and clear that the Council of Ministers did not meet at 29. The Prime Minister's programme on 29. It's 11 o'clock. He's at the ceremony at 00, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Group Vice President, 13. He's interviewing the President at 00. He's interviewing the Chief of Staff at 15.30. He's interviewing the Undersecretary of MIT at 16.30. They probably talked about his candidacy when they were interviewing the Undersecretary of MIT. 17. He also attends a meeting on the solution process. Now, Mr. Ministers, you're delaying the strike of our METAL-HIS Syndicate at a hand-signed position that undermines national security in the Council of Ministers, which you have not participated in in in in 29. Now, friends, in a matter of national security, the Council of Ministers must meet and make a decision. What's affecting national security? Is there a war in the country; is Turkey at war with Russia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Greece, or is there a war between us or what? But they're delaying the strike on grounds, my friends. It's antidemocratic, it's illegal, it's illegal. I want to say this again here, and the AKP has postponed the strike 13 times during the 13-year period of power. I'm protesting from here. Nazim Hikmet says: "They are enemies of hope, my beloved/Akarwater, enemy of the tree in the age of fruit, enemy of the flourishing life/ for death has struck them: the decaying tooth, the spilled flesh/ will fall down, and, of course, my beloved will walk about in his most glorious suit: in this beautiful land. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0006par0050	Thank you. By the way, sir, you said you were, but that's not what the jacket says.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0005par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0006par0054	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Abdulkerim Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on behalf of myself regarding investments made during our administrations in Şanlıurfa. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers have been provided with $18 billion in investments and support from our budget during the AK PARTI rulings -- Şanliurfa (not a lie). Someone's been in a state of glory these days. Let them know that when the election is near, you can go to Urbania, the Jaffa are hospitable, they will embrace you, and they will give you a beautiful night with their music, with their folklore, with their culture, with their culture, but the Jaffa know that we are at the end of the week. With my friends, the AK PARTY Group, we are in Urbana. Where did this $18 billion go? He went to education, went to health, and went to Suruç Watering Tunnel, one of the world's number of projects. Look, we're going to launch our 800-bed State Hospital in the healthcare area we're going to open in the next few days as of August. What did we do before that? We put 500-bed state hospitals on the line. As lawmakers, we had prepared a pamphlet in 2011 to carry out 400 projects in four years. So, right now, we've done these projects, and we've done them, all the way to 500. Is that enough? No, it wasn't enough. We've solved the deed problem in Ceylanpınar, which has been going on for a hundred years. Is that enough? That wasn't enough; we solved another hundred years of problems together. I've spent it with all my friends in this House, and we've solved the nomadic problem. On the other hand, in all our counties, one swimming pool, one sports complex, one closed gym, one synthetic grass field, state hospitals... our investments in all areas continue at all speeds in Şanliurfa. Dear lawmakers, look, we're taking over the 600-bed University of Harran -- outside the state hospital -- Research and Application Hospital in August. The 1,700-bed city hospital, I hope, in March -- I invite you from here -- we'll lay the groundwork together, but let it be known that there are significant developments in Sanlıurfa central and districts. Let me get to the point of education. Between 2013 and 2014, we laid the foundation for 300 schools, and we opened for education. Sixty schools are currently under construction to be laid off. Where did it come from? We have drawn the number of students 65 per classroom in Şanlıurfa centrally to 40, and the number of students 65 per classroom in Şanlıurfa district. Praise be to God. What did we do that with? We have done this as a need for love, for the importance, for the love that the AK PARTI's white ranks have given to Shanliurfa, east and southeast, but while we're expressing it here, do you want to find something negative, absolutely want to catch land? It's a different matter if you act with an understanding of the AK PARTI? But let it be known that we have more to do. We carry out our politics in Şanlıurfa, and in many provinces of Turkey. Our politics is called the politics of producing services. The name of our politics is not to look down on the nation, it's not to despise the nation, it's to the people, it's to the people, it's to the people, it's to the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, are we all squared away, are we finished? No, I want to make sure that we don't make that kind of claim, but I want it to be known. So I'd like to say that I'm not in a painting, like everything's perfect. It's already over. If you say it's over, then life is over, and your need to do politics is gone. So we say that we've made it clear to Turkey and to our country, to the east and southeast of Turkey, and especially to the scholar Shanlıurfa, that we've done in the last four years, especially in the last 20 years. I sincerely thank you, my dear fellow lawmakers, to Parliament, to our government, to our Minister, to our ministers -- of course, to the great love of our Prime Minister at that time, Mr. President, for the knowledge of our Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0008par0069	Thank you, Mr. Sky. According to the 60th article, I promise 10 friends. Mr. Flagtutan, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0009par0074	Thank you, my dear President. Dear lawmakers, on February 13th, we are in Boykotta for Laik and Scientific Education, which was envisioned by the United June Movement, and today the stand, where students and teachers opened a stand concerning it, was unfortunately distributed by security officials. There was a similar incident on February 9th, and on February 9th, these young children and teachers were taken into custody again following the instructions given by the state's attorney. Next week, the security package will arrive at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, before the security package arrives, Fascism has arrived in the country, my dear President. I'm speaking to the security guards who have instructed us to use force here at Artvin. In the rule of the Republican People's Party, you're going to pay for it and for it, I want to express it first. I'd also like to address the security guards who took those young children into custody without mercy: One day this political wind may change, and everyone may take their own stand. With those young people...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Our citizen Yilmaz Koçyılmaz is being stopped by traffic police while driving to Ankara. Despite the winter tire and chain in your vehicle, the citizen's journey is not permitted. Therefore, after the discussion, the person is laid down; do not do it, I have blood pressure, do not cuff him. Even though he says so, he is handcuffed. As a result of the riot at the time, our citizen is having a heart attack and dying. The details are in the daily papers. Lately, it's been the behavior of some officers to exaggerate their duties, to exercise extreme force, to take responsibility for the situation. The concept of reasonable doubt, which the AKP has restored, has increased such events. On top of reasonable doubt, the adoption of the internal security law, which includes extraordinary powers, will bring the situation to a more dire position. A warning and a declaration is announced to the AKP.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0012par0083	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0013par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. While the Minister of National Education is here, I'd like to share a matter with him. At Osmaniye's Cansan Elementary School, before going on 15 holidays, I'd like to show you a religious teacher's assignment if the cameras get closer. Mr. Secretary, as shown in this article, the student's name says below his last name: "How many times has this family been read, how many times Yasin has been read, how many İhlas have been read?" He gives an assignment about this, and after this assignment, 15 days later, he gives the student a homework note from religion class. Mr. Secretary, what I'd like to point out is that the educational policy that you've brought into national education is now at a point where you're trying to overcome students and bring their parents to the checkpoint.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0014par0090	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0015par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out to the government officials and to all the authorities who set the agenda here that the debate on the external security of the prisons has been interrupted, and the demands of the execution guards, the prison employees, for their actual service increase, for their early retirement and for their rights have been interrupted. First these people got their hopes up, and then this one got interrupted because the Ministry of Finance couldn't get along with the Justice Department. The guards of the execution, of course, are looking for us as they are looking for all the members of power, and they want us to discuss it as soon as possible. In addition, KPSS victims have a very serious demand. They made their demands, thinking they'd graduate in June, and they scored a hell of a lot of points. Unfortunately, however, June graduates will not be able to benefit from the appointment because of the Nisana. I'd like to ask the two Ministers a very special request from this place, where both your children and your young people are very special...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The most important problems of our country are poverty and poverty. That's where pensioners come in. Mustapha Biler, retired from Tokat Province, and many of his friends and friends want us to telephone and bring it up on the agenda of Parliament. The AKP's power is wanted to be known that they do not accept the annual 2.32 per cent increase. The hunger limit of the family of four is 1,257, and the poverty limit is $4,094. How many officers, SEC and BUG-KUR pensioners are getting paid this much? If we say no, many of our pensioners live below the poverty and hunger line. There are indirect and direct taxes in our country that find faces. Hearts are breaking from tax injustice and inflation. Everyone needs to hear the voice of retired people and other social contributions. If the voices are not heard, they will announce their voices in the June 7th elections, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0018par0101	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. The districts of Yenişehir and İznik are called Değirmenkaya and Kirectepe. It is said that the licensed calciner stove and the breakaway elimination plant are on the water basin, and the drinking and irrigation needs of the surrounding villages are provided from this source. The explosions in this area, which is licensed as a quarry, also threaten the watering pond, which is in the same area at the borders of the village of Derbent. As the legal process of the company's business license continues, would you consider reviewing, reviewing as the Ministry, and making repeated savings? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. President, teachers and their parents, who worry about how they send their students to school every day, are starting a constitutionally guaranteed rights search for a modern, secular education from February 13th. In Turkey, where we think freedom of thought and expression is constitutionally guaranteed, unfortunately, the governor of İzmir has been working to ban these rights on the grounds that there are anti-AK PARTI actions. Do you intend to do anything against these governors who are unaware of their position and their mission and who perceive all their officers as being opposed to the AK PARTY government and the actions against the AK PARTY? The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the necessary authorities are in charge of an investigation into their abuse of their duties...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0020par0109	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0022par0111	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Balıkesir has surrendered to land for the second time this winter. Look, two drops of rain fall on Balıkesir, the electricity in the villages goes out, and it lasts for days. Now, Mr. Secretary, look, over 300 villages were blocked in the previous snowfall. At the moment, the roads of the village, including 39 in the Battle of Balıkesir, 6 in Balija, 10 in the border, 41 in the border, 41 in the border, 47 in Susuruk, 47 in the Ivrindi, 47 in the city, 7 in Manyas (7 in Havran) 3, 5 in the Sixeylalah (29 in the south) and 6 in Kepsut. Likewise, there is no electricity in the cities of Ivrindi (Ivrindi) in 16 villages, 8, Susurluk in 8 and Kepsut in 8, 13 in 13 in Karesi. So, now, here, the Department of Energy, which is very serious about the white meat industry here in our area...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0020par0112	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0023par0114	Mr. President, a fellow student sent me a letter from the University of Süleyman Demirel, asking me to pay $200 for the medical board report some faculty didn't want to register at the university, and I invested this $200. But it wasn't taken from students who wanted to get a medical report after me. So there are hundreds, thousands of students in the same situation. When he applied to the General Secretary of the Public Hospitals Association, he stated that the practices in Turkey were different, and that the Isparta Community Hospital Association would not return the money. You can appreciate that $200 is an important amount of money for a student. He specifically wants it announced to our Minister of National Education to protect student interests. Please, we'd like to contact the Minister of Health and ask thousands of students to act to protect their interests. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0020par0116	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. President, thank you. I congratulate you on the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish Cypriot federate state, a major turning point on the road to the Turkish Cypriot Republic. As we go to this state, we welcome our first martyrs for the honorable struggle of the Turkish Cypriot people, our Turkish Cypriot mujahideen and Turkish Cypriot citizens, and again, the late Fazil Küçük α, Rauf Denktaş, Prime Minister of the period, Bjevit Ecevit and Deputy Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan Hodja, who has been leading the way here. Our efforts continue, especially during our governments, at the point of boosting Turkish Cypriots' international achievements in the arena. At the point of improving the quality of life for Turkish Cypriots, I believe there will be better things in the coming days. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0025par0122	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0026par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. While we're discussing the motion for the motion to ask about the Minister of National Education, I'd like to bring you up to speed on one thing: this school is a family unit. There are staff members of the school family, especially for the purpose of service to schools; they used a certain incentive as part of the special business, but the SGK has identified them as public workplaces, and they have borrowed from them to collect bonuses backwards, 8-10 billion. Of course, $8-10 billion will also be charged to student parents. There has to be a legal arrangement. In addition, the Kayseri Pınarbaşı Ahmetbeyli Elementary School stated that the teacher had problems with the teacher. I'd like to bring this to your attention. Today is February 12th, the day of the victory of Kahramanmarash. I would like to express our gratitude to those who have given us this victory, to those who have received the mercy of Hakkk, to those who have received God's mercy, to our veterans. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0027par0129	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis. I'll read it and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, received an official visit to Canada between February 22nd and 26th 2015 to respond to the invitation of the Canadian House of Commons President Andrew Scheer, at 03/02/2015 and the 50th edition of the 03/2015 General Assembly. Under Article 2 of the law mentioned, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. [[Antalya]] 2) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 3) Ahmet Tofik Long [[Mersin]] [[Sakarya]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Unplanned urbanization and unplanned industrialization are among the main problems of our country. Due to the established industrial policy, the concentration of industrial facilities in the Marmara Region, as well as corrupt urbanization, has almost destroyed productive, plantable agricultural areas. It is understandable that the private sector prefers areas close to market and access roads. However, it should not be the duty of institutions and boards in public to allocate first-class agricultural land to industrial institutions by turning the law from behind and turning the fields into land without public benefit. It is undoubtedly among the duties of all public institutions, especially governments, to allocate land, to encourage employment, to contribute to the country's economy. However, these institutions also have basic tasks, such as protecting their country's land, developing agricultural areas. The province of Sakarya is an agriculturally beneficial province as well as the land structure. Fifty per cent of the current land consists of farmland, 42 per cent of forest and heath area, 6 per cent of non-advised area, and 2 per cent of grass and mera. The Eren district also reflects these averages. The district is close to the D-100 state road and the Anatolian highway. Eren district is a town in the district of Eren district of Eren Province, Turkey. The municipality of Bekirpaşa Belde, which was linked to Erens Municipality in 2008 as its neighborhood, was eligible to be used out of agriculture by the Ministry of Agriculture and Village Development General Directorate, including the villages of Kamişlı and Reşitpaşa, with additional industrial development plans being made by the Ministry 17/12/2002 dates and TAD/250 11 11 12-2416-018777. The relevant municipality is 05/02/2003 and 01. He has approved the council's decision to build a position. A joint tractor factory owned by Turkish-Holland companies has been earmarked for the region, following the ratification of the plan. This area, which is a first-class farmland, has been moved out of the farmland by undisclosed boards of experts? It must be explained. Before the adoption of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, the municipality has been excluded from the area in question from the development plan. Public benefit has not been taken care of. It's a covert pardon. The procedure has been hijacked. The municipality, which turned into the neighborhood today, needs to be explained for what reasons it plans to build a position and expand the Mujavir area, need to produce industrial plots, and why it did so by destroying agricultural fields. In the industrial land area, people or people in the decision-making authorities must be investigated for who owns the premises. Is the scientific data on the impact of industrial facilities in the region on agricultural areas considered? Reports, documents, information and documents on this matter must be explained. It is unthinkable for us to be indifferent to the destruction of our country's fertile land for any reason in agricultural production, where outside dependency increases a little bit every day. For what reason were the first-class farmlands of the villages of Kamişlı and Reşitbey declared non-industrial territory for industrial purposes? In this area, I demand that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98, and the Constitution 104, and 105, in order to set an example for similar practices in our country. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Edirne]] [[Manisa]] 12) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Army]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Aydın]] 20) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[40s.]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Let's go.]] [[Antalya]] 29) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The new construction in Erzincan, especially since 1992, is thought to be solid, so it is not studied whether they are strong or not. We know that in earthquakes, the loss of lives and property is due to the lack of stability of buildings. ▪ Deprem doesn't kill, buildings kill, and the rhetoric is very accurate. His widespread belief that buildings in Erzincan have been very solid in recent years has been shaken by some recent events. Buildings that have been built in recent years need to be investigated, especially by the government and by an independent team. Leaving it to individuals and municipalities won't be the right and safe result. Therefore, with the establishment of a research team, the casualties of life and property will be avoided. In order for Erzincan to take the necessary measures to ensure that he does not suffer again in a possible earthquake in the future, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation into the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] 3) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Tunceli]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 25) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Erzincan is a province in the first-degree earthquake belt. In fact, the quakes that have caused the worst results in earthquakes in Turkey are in Erzincan. Although Erzincan was destroyed in the 1939 earthquake, the lesson was not learned, and Erzincan was once again destroyed in the 1992 earthquake, lost lives and possessions, and thousands of people left Erzincan. Erzincan, the most beautiful city in the East, unfortunately didn't have the social and economic improvements needed due to the earthquake. The role of earthquakes is as great as the share of government's non-investment in this. After the 1992 earthquake, there was a new construction in Erzincan, trying to build stronger buildings. In particular, construction of multi-story buildings was not allowed, and the construction of solid buildings that withstand earthquakes was carefully observed. But because of recent events, we began to wonder if the people and we were deceived. The most important strength in buildings is the quality of iron and concrete used. The concrete used in Erzincan recently has been said to have low quality. Regarding this issue, preliminary research by Erzincan province's ready-made concrete producers on 10/10/2012 has been decided by the Competitive Council on the charge that they have increased their price hikes to the concrete prices they have established through a joint company that they have agreed to meet, and that they have increased their demand for concrete quality in exchange for price hikes. The Council, which discussed the information, documents and findings obtained in preliminary research at its meeting on 10/10/2012, finds the findings serious and adequate, under Article 41, Article 41 of the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness 4054. Erzincan Technique Concrete Entrance. Taah. Transfer. Mad. Ith. Ihr. San. And Tic. Ltd. Shti. The Grove Real Estate Investment Construction Company. Öz Çakıroğlu Construction San. And Tic. Ltd. Shti. Conspiracy Hafriyat İsh. Taah. Tic. And San. Ltd. Shti. Betashcan construction, Mad. Oil Auto and Nak. San. Tic. Paz. Ltd. Shti. My first name is Concrete Oil and Nak. San. Tic. Paz. Ltd. Shti. He's decided to investigate them. As it is known, Article 4 of Law 4054 prohibits competitive agreements and harmonised actions between attempts. The Competitive Association is the joint sales dealerships of six attempts to produce and/or/or sell concrete in Erzincan province, mentioned above, etc. An investigation has been launched to determine whether they violated Article 4 of Law No. 4054 by sharing competitive information and customers, lowering the quality of the concrete offered, and setting the price and payment conditions together. He has decided to open an investigation in the form of a statement. Based on this decision and the facts, Erzincan must be investigated how resistant buildings have been to the earthquake so far. While research is being conducted, it should also be investigated who the owners of these companies are and whether they have an active or passive or indirect relationship with the ruling party. In order for research to be healthy, Erzincan's earthquake reality should be taken into account, with the participation of experts from independent universities in earthquakes, and the research should be conducted by this committee. With these companies starting a joint company and going to monopolize concrete prices, citizens have suffered major losses. Also, if concrete is sold outside the desired quality of concrete, citizens will be damaged in that sense. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly President Turgut Ozal, the 8th President, took a twelve-day trip abroad in April 1993 and died on April 17, 1993. The death of Turgut Özal is still one of the main events in Turkey's recent history. Although 19 years have passed since his death, the allegations that Özal had been assassinated at different times have been discussed and still debated in public. The allegations have gained a new dimension with the investigation carried out by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. Following the order of the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, the 8th President of the post-mortem has stated that significant findings have been reached in the judicial process related to the death of the deceased, Turgut Özal. Based on the autopsy report of the Forensic Medical Association, media broadcasts indicate that a large number of poisons were detected during a toxicological examination of the samples taken from Ozal. The analysis also examined the chances of the poison passing through the burial site, and the soil analysis shows that there was no trace of poison on the site of Ozal's tomb from the mausoleum. In light of the investigations conducted by the Forensic Medical Association and the information passed on to the public, the allegations that the 8th President, Turgut Özal, was poisoned have become reality. It is said that Ozal could have been poisoned by external substances, such as pesticides and heavy metals. His family has claimed that he had been murdered by the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office after 19 years of poisoning, giving various examples that have expressed their suspicions since 1993. It has been constantly criticised by the public that the very serious allegations that have been made by various groups over 19 years have not been investigated enough, that the authorities have not gone over the issue. It is still unknown for what reasons the 8th President, Turgut Ozal, may have been poisoned. The disappearance of five of Özal's five letters to be delivered to his relatives in 2000, the ANAP convention at Ankara Ataturk Closed Sports Hall on June 18, 1988, raises serious doubts about the poisoning of the Eagle Demirağ, who was not alone in the hall and was helped by a second person and had hidden forces behind Demirağ, blood samples from Özal. After the death of President Ozal, authorities who have not studied the claims of the Özal family for 19 years and have not been able to fully shed light on the death case are expected to be determined and carried out. In order to clarify the death of Turgut Özal, the Coroner of Forensic Medicine must immediately disclose the autopsy report, examine the hair samples, the most important evidence of poisoning, and reopen the case of the assassination against Turgut Özal, which should be handled with all the details of the matter and brought to the public with serious questioning. For reasons stated above, in order to assess all aspects of the allegations related to the death of Malatya's prominent political men, President Turgut Özal, in order to identify the omissions and responsible for his death, we propose the opening of Parliamental research under Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104, Article 105 and Article 105 of the Civil Code. [[Malatya]] [[Adana]] 3) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 8) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting talks with Ankara MP Zühal Topcu and 25 lawmakers on whether to raise a gene question about National Education Minister Nabi Avcı (11/44) for the alleged failure to solve problems related to national education and causing problems to worsen. Government? He's in position. The motion was printed and distributed on February 7, 2015, and it was presented in the 53rd edition of the General Assembly, dated February 10, 2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of all the members in question: Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Amassian MP Avni Erdemir on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; National Education Minister Nabi Avcı on behalf of the government. The first statement is from Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0028par0369	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Minister of National Education, Mr. Nabi Avcı, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action. Honorable MPs are governed by the state, the Constitution and the laws. There's no joy in the state, and whoever does it harms both the state and the nation. The Minister's Ministry, the Ministry of National Education, which we're meeting with, is a Ministry with very important tasks, which emerges centuries later, and is run by Law No. 1739. The general goals of Turkish national education are to raise all members of the Turkish nation, based on the nationalism described by Ataturk, the nationalism of the Turkish nation, the national, moral, human, moral, spiritual, cultural values of the Turkish nation, protecting, developing, loving their family, their homeland, their nation, and always trying to glorify them, human rights and the basic principles of the beginning of the Constitution. Dear MPs, no doubt, the relevant elements of the National Education Basic Law are not divine substances, but they are distilled as a result of a rich past, a rich history, a unique experience. Therefore, it cannot be changed, ignored, or neglected, according to every one's pleasure. In this country, no citizen, no individual, no group, no family, no gender, no religion, no religion. Every citizen is an equal citizen in this country. Education is everybody's right. This right cannot be prevented in any way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's easy to judge the failure and failure of the practitioners of the educational system that we've all come from. The aims of national education are our common denominator. These goals can be achieved by schedules, curriculums, important days and weeks. The training of teachers to implement these programmes is possible with training of educational administrators. No one can claim that education in Turkey is being done according to its purpose, the truth is clear. You're taking our students away from our national culture, our national values. The Day of May 19th, the rebellion of imperialism, resists the invasion of the country. Why don't you celebrate this holiday properly, make it representational? April 23rd is the consolidation of the concept of national sovereignty. August 30th is the Day of Victory. The flag in the hands is a holiday celebrated by the Turkish nation. October 29th is the celebration of a republic we built with blood and wisdom. They're becoming a ritual. In schools -- not every school -- a small ceremony within the school itself, in the form of an event shown by a single school in the province or in the district, is made free of enthusiasm, without education. Why did we shave them, Mr. Secretary? Why did you turn them into birds? If every Turkish child knows what this country is costing, his defence against his enemy increases. If every Turkish child learns about Mustafa Kemal, if he knows his high country love, leadership and heroism, his feelings for the Turkish nation increase. What is your problem with the terms of the Republic of Turkey? Either you took it out of the signs or you hid it somewhere in the writing. You remove the Republic of Turkey from the places where you get the opportunity to put the articles, where you put them back if there's a social response. In Balıkesir, there was such a writing on the Street of the National Forces, and the municipality of the city lifted up, and Balıkesir stood up. Kuvaimilliye is a city proud of its Turkishness. I don't understand how to remove it, why to remove it! Then they put it somewhere else. Those who say, "Happy is the Turk! " should not be disturbed by his words, by his words, by his words. With your actions, Mr. Secretary, you're raising young people who are sympathetic to ISIS, who are interested in separatist terrorist organizations, who are involved, and you're causing them to participate. You're playing with educational systems. Since the Prime Minister of Time said, "Do it." Without thinking, without arguing, without arguing, without saying, you brought the system 4+4+4. Do you account for the return of every system you bring back to education, what you bring back, what you take away? The next minister comes in, eliminates, brings separate ministers from the same party. There is a fact: the Ministry of National Education is far from fulfilling the basic goals of national education. A generation overwhelmed by system mayhem, failure in science, failure in sports, failure in art is your creation. You're deceiving yourself, of course, and so are the people. None of you can say the King is naked. You're a bad influence on Turkish children. You are silent in the face of injustice. Money resetters, Iranian butlers, shoeboxes, arm watches... You can't account for the Turkish youth you're facing, but the Turkish nation, the Turkish youth, hopefully, will ask you on June 7th, what time is it? The students don't like the education you give them, and even though we're on vacation, they say we shouldn't go to school, because the education is of no use to the students. It's sad, it's sad, it's sad that we're 42nd in the OECD research, training in their reports, in 64 countries. Families are miserable, troubled and unsuccessful, parents are desperate. 1,200,000 students are taking the test. In these, 900,000 students get zero from their science; 420,000 students get zero from math. What's it gonna be? Where are you taking this National Ministry of Education, Mr. Secretary? Your student doesn't like school, the teacher doesn't like you. Please take a survey among your ministry staff, and don't tell anyone about the outcome; know that the outcome will guide you. The Minister and the valued MPs are headed by a lot of general directors at the ministry. Most national educational directorates, which are the ministry's representative in Turkey, are run by proxy. I'm asking the Minister: You are the head of the ministry. Can you say? Did the Undersecretary, who sat next to you, who told you his wishes and wishes, his problems, say that I would personally discuss them with the Prime Minister without your permission? In spite of you, I remind you of Genghis Khan: If my feet don't follow the order of my head, I will cut off those feet and throw them. I love you, Minister, but I also work for the same Commission. However, not just your staff, but the government, personally, is trying to fail you; he's skipping you, trying to run the Ministry of National Education with your officers. You have to stop, or you have to take an honorable stand. This failure in education will have disastrous consequences in the nation, in the future. With these system changes, this continuing structure will cause deep scars in Turkish youth and educational system. You think this will be solved with a light bulb, with a candle. Don't worry, June 7th is coming. The sun will rise so that both the Kandil and the light bulb will close their eyes, and the Turkish nation will have a new light, and the nation will be free from these problems again. In order to solve the problems of national education, to express the problems of non-assigned teachers and remove this great burden, the nation needs the Turkish nation, the Turkish nation needs the National Movement. I'd like to ask the Minister to review his situation and have the esteemed MPs accept this motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0029par0386	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. The first statement on behalf of the groups is from Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0030par0390	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the nationalist Minister of Education. I salute you all. Yeah, I'd like to start talking about a really tragic, tragic story that came out to the press a few days ago. There was a statement made by the Governor of the Sea. It was a report that schools sold names to a benefactor to provide for the needs of the schools. In fact, this is an indication of how helpless the Ministry of National Education has become. Is this Turkey, which is called New Turkey, supposed to be the 10th largest economy in 2023? The reason is to provide the needs of the schools. In fact, this shame is enough for the AKP, where the schools of this country have fallen. Where are those who boast that we've put that high budget into education? Where did we actually give the highest budget? We want to put an end to this disgrace here. In particular, during the period between 2002 and 2015, five ministers, six undersecretaries have changed, while many bureaucrats have changed. When we consider the ministers and bureaucrats who have changed so often, I wonder if the quality of education has changed, but in what way has it changed? It has been changed in the lower direction because education is now out of control because these changes to the ministry, these bureaucratic changes really have no reason to make any excuse for these policy changes, the current AKP is in no position to make excuses. There is an example of Finland, which has made major reforms in education, which has been in the press for several days, in the world with 800,000 students. But it's a very small country. But it can also be considered as an example of America, Japan, China, many countries, Germany, although its population is greater than ours. During the 2013-2014 education year, the Ministry of National Education specifically reduces schools. Really, it's also a sign of what it's like to have 811,000 teachers, almost 24 million students, and believe it, a structure like this that corresponds to one-third of the population. Can you play with the education system that much? Mr. Secretary, we'd like to ask you in particular: And you're in a ministry where you don't entrust education to teachers, teachers. Undersecretary... it's not about education, it's about training. It's the same with the bureaucrats you brought in. So if this minister doesn't solve it, there will be another minister. Mr. Secretary, especially when we look at your policies in the hiring of teachers, we still don't understand what you're doing, because we can now see that it's being used to politics and it's becoming a classic of election times. The new 15,000 teachers have been appointed, but the need is now reported to be 90 grand. But we have 350,000 teachers in particular waiting for the appointment. According to this, these policies need to be reinvented, and these young people must not be used to AKP's election ambitions. The appointment of the newly appointed teachers never ends with appointment because Article 43 of the National Education Act 1739 has changed three times in eight months. We want to stress it specifically, it's changed three times, because there have been changes here, whether these trials should be done by the Ministry of National Education, whether they should be done by the OSCE, or by the SFC, or what has happened. Later, these tests were replaced by the study of the word or the written word, or the study of the word, and were changed three times in this way. Again, you're bringing in a performance evaluation system that's supposed to be implemented in your power. Who's going to measure this performance, how's he going to measure it? Is there going to be a search for union membership in these performance measurements? Is that supposed to be close to the dealer? Will they be searched here? What are the criteria, what are the performance criteria? Nothing's clear. You go to bed in the evening, and when you wake up in the morning, we have an idea. You say, "You explain new things after that, and then you say, 'Sorry, we made a mistake.' And then you go back. What will happen to this youth? What's going to happen to families who can't handle so much stress? I wonder who's going to measure that performance. Will the il national education directors, county national education managers, or the aide union do your exams? So now we say: Sit still and make your decision. These teachers will be subject to an unknown performance assessment with a non-existent regulation. So what did the Ministry of National Education do with them? He continues to deceive this country. What he wants to do is, in fact, it's very clear that in the appointment of teachers, the idea and the zigzag are no longer going to be passed on the exam, which does not apply to you. What's being done now? Their own team is beginning to form intensively. It's a shame about this youth, it's a shame about this country's future. We can also see that practices that may be considered a scandal in sensitive issues such as education have come to light. The Ministry of National Education is supposed to be so sensitive to the appointment of teachers that it changes all the regulations and comes up. But we've learned from the press and the parents that the county and the county national education departments -- I want to get your attention here -- are making deals with some of the foundations. Our young people who spend the best years of their youth training to become teachers are being put aside, and the trusts of this country are entrusted to the people of this uncertain foundation. You call these kids "Formation" and then you think, "KPSS" and then you say, "Words and/or written exams" and then you can't appoint these kids, you get an outside service. We have written documents of agreements -- you have them, you have them, you have them in the press. Now we ask: who are these people? Who are these foundations, and who are they? Do you have the formations of people who will give this conference or education, what are field training? In fact, these foundation guys are bold enough to take their guidance counselors out of class and give them a lecture themselves, so we'd like to explain that from here. How are they behaving so recklessly? They can teach about anything, they can give lectures, and we're asking who they are. How do you trust these children? If there is no need for formalization and diplomas for teaching qualifications, then let's close the universities, and let's close the Ministry -- we want you to consider this offer -- let these foundations manage national education. Mr. Secretary, you're an academic -- and we really respect him, and we want to express him specifically -- how do you allow such things? How do you use children, education, generations of the future to build like this? You have to call these scandals "stop." Look, why don't you trust our teachers? These teachers, who truly inspire our songs, our novels, these are our Bushes, the nameless heroes who work for this country, this country, this nation. Yes, Mr. Secretary, there have been many tests and changes by the Ministry of National Education, especially in order to transfer to secondary school; here is SBS, OKS, and the latest TEOG. In TEOG, again, in 2013-2014, two changes were made, the number of exams was raised to two and only applied to the 8th graders, and even in one test, we would like to ask again how this is going to be the nationality of such non-serious practice, even in the Middle School Exam. Now, again, we face a mistake again. 4,800 students were the 1st in the TEOG exams. Now that we're looking, are the questions too easy? Was it copied? It was said, but did it cause each student to take the exam at his own school, and gave birth to the result? How are these kids gonna make their school choices? There are 4,800 full-point kids. Now, when we look at it, these guys are champions, but how are you going to plant them? Is the age of education overlooked by such a view? Now, then we ask, how many students have zeroed out on this test? Why don't you explain all this? Is there something you're afraid of? We'd like to share statistics on this test. Now we're saying that we want to rank success in accordance with the provinces, to rank success in accordance with the special-state school distinction. According to gender, it has to be done according to school types and courses. Are you afraid of anything? Mr. Secretary, why don't you explain these particular statistics? To camouflage failure, do you wish to seek refuge in these hidden statistics? Again, lawmakers, there is a very important issue: The education language of the state of the Republic of Turkey, especially under Article 42 of the Constitution, is Turkish, but it appears -- again, it is in the press -- in February of February, there is information in the press that the students are getting their report cards in schools that were opened by the city at the end of the first term. Now we're saying, even though we've been asking, Mr. Secretary, I don't know, I don't see. But how are they allowed, how can they not be seen, how can they not be heard? The Constitution is being violated here. The indivisible integrity of the country, the national unity and unitary structure are shaken from the foundation. Where will the children who study here go in the second and third four years? Are you planning to send it to Erbil? Are you planning to send these children to Syria? And we're saying that we're going to build a new foundation and shut down schools in Africa. The AKP has been in power for 13 years, but has been doing victim literature since it arrived. The RDC has been criticised, but as we look at it now, we can still see that there is no new SEC law and a scientific board created, and with this new configuration, there are statements, particularly in 2015, that a certain dam will be delivered in the fields of medicine and law, and there will be a score ranking. Has there been any substantive work done or scientific studies done before this decision was reached? The government said that in party programs, we're moving from the test-oriented system to the school-oriented system. But we're looking at applications that are just opposite of what was intended. Because when we look at it, it's as if the actions of the test-oriented system continue, so they're going to continue, and in particular, they're going to be reflected in a situation that, you know, has come up with their own internal reckonings and the closing of the classrooms, and it's as if they've come to a solution. Now, we're asking, we're wondering if, when you shut down the classrooms, the exam-oriented system was abandoned. Problem solved? Has success increased? Has the system become perfect? We even closed the classrooms and opened courses in schools instead. You said. The current courses are not very pleasant because when we look at them, these courses continue for 20 hours, until ten o'clock at night. In single schools, school ends at five o'clock, double education ends at seven o'clock. After seven or five, these children and teachers will stay at school, listening to lessons by ten o'clock. There's no such thing as a freak. Besides, you promised the teachers, both the President and the Prime Minister, about the clock fees. At the moment, a teacher who attends an evening course receives $9. After ten o'clock, what kind of teacher goes home without a car? In a taxi. How much will he pay for the cab? He probably won't give me less than $10. Besides, there's no charge for cleaning friends, and those classes need to be cleaned. How are you with the underdog? How are you with the employee? Please empathize, and when you do it as a teacher and as a student and as a parent, you will find it very easy to see that you can't get out. Now, when we look at these teachers, especially these teachers, we see pressure to open the courses, but let's just say, even though there are a lot of schools, these courses have been opened, and the students are starting to leave school because they don't get what they want because they don't get what they want. Congressmans, we are facing a very important problem at the Ministry of National Education, especially in regard to vocational high schools. Because in vocational high schools, especially in 2011 and 2012, the METEGEM Project sent statistical data to the directorates and schools with official writing. The data says that the rate of absence of these children is 35 percent. And if we look at current data, we can look at the data from 2012-2013, we can see that absences and school dropouts are up to 45 percent. We know that in especially in placement of TEOG exams, children are being taken to their upper secondary schools, and what we're seeing now is that we want to shout to the nation here that their vocational high school is bankrupt, and we say that the Ministry of National Education cannot control this system, for many reasons, students who are cut off from school are in the system for three years, as if they were in the system. Look, there's another important data that says that every year, when we increase them, there's a right proportion between dropouts and crime rates, and right now, according to informel data, we can very easily say that 1 million children were involved in crime, that they were involved in drugs, because the child who left school in the system based on MERNIS is also seen in the system. Actually, I wanted to pass along a little note from a citizen yesterday. How the 13-14-year-olds take drugs at the bottom of the wall of their house, and then, Mother, pray to us, that we die, that we get rid of this disease. I'd like to share it briefly. The FATIH Project was particularly turned into a snake story, but for some, it turned into a wallet story because it started with what Hans had in our Hassan, but the beginning was wrong. Because only 10 per cent of the FATIH Project has now been carried out by spending a lot of money, such as all projects. In three months, 40 per cent of the distributed tablets were forced to be sent to the technical service. There really are so many things right now... that a Teacher's Strategy Document has been prepared, but what happened? It's all been a dream. The AKP was just a dream-teller, nothing else happened. National Education Strategy Document... where will the qualified teacher grow up? You're still explaining the situation with temporary measures for election times, trying to avoid it. It's a waste of our religion. We're not a rich country, we can't throw our money away. There's so much to say for him. It's a pay-per-view... Mr. Secretary, when you say there are 47,825 paid teachers in your speech at the Budget Commission, you're talking about 39,000 in the budget. We'd like to learn these real numbers from you. We'd like to shout from here that you were really unfair when you came to the appointment of the principal and the vice principal. You can't even reassign the court winners. And as a result, we say, this National Ministry of Education is now a wreck. The constitution is being carried out in violation of law and justice. Participants are considered as the only criteria for the appointment of school administrators. Information, skills are not applied in education, justice and driver's license are not considered. The memory of the Ministry of National Education has been erased by the Justice and Development Party. So we say, please, please, Mr. Secretary, we love you, but enough is enough. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0031par0424	Thank you, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0032par0425	How's that for love, Congressman?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0030par0426	I mean, we like kids better, so let's just say that.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0031par0427	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0033par0430	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion to ask about Mr. Nabi Avcı, the minister of national education. I salute the General Assembly. In the beginning, I'd like to draw your attention to the condition of the sick prisoners living in prisons. There are many sick prisoners on the border of death. They're not being evacuated, and their necessary treatments aren't being performed, or they're being delayed, which leads to painful consequences. See, Abdulsamet Çelik, who was in prison for 22 years, who had been treated for cancer for many years, but was not treated properly, also died of a progressive illness. For many years, Steel had to fight this illness alone in prison. Perhaps if there was a treatment in the time of Çelik, who, alone, could not meet the simplest needs of him, was being treated in the hospital wards in the time of his life, which was almost tortured in ring vehicles. See, on the matter, on 14/3/2012, I gave the Department of Justice a question motion. The response on 20/12/2012 may remain at the prison of the Forensic Medical Association. The decision to avoid seriousness in the form of the Court of Justice has been cited, and this friend is not among us today. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of National Education creates inequalities and victims each year by adding new problems to the policy of a permanent solution to basic problems. In the past year alone, tens of thousands of educational directors have been relieved of their duties, of course, and the AKP has replaced them with its own staff. Tens of thousands of students were victimised by a system change in TEOG, and were placed in vocational high schools, mainly imams-members, against the request of thousands of students. The resources needed to be spent on public education have been transferred to private. Tens of thousands of refugees from Syria, Iraqis and Rojava still lack the right to study. Tens of thousands of other teachers were added to this period, when their husbandly status was increased to three years of insured work. The oral test, which is the basis for political staffing in educational institutions, is now being popularized. Of course, pressure and difficult use for the public to open their own institutions for education in the native language is also important to be reminded of. With these problems, the Ministry of Education has numerous problems from educational workers to student problems, basic language education to democratic, secular and scientific education, curriculum to physical conditions of schools, inequality in education to unilateral state rhetoric. We can't end up counting them. The dynamic of all these problems is that the Ministry of National Education is not removed from the rhetoric and practice of state and political powers. In other words, the Ministry of National Education has been transformed into the ideological device of power. The failure to transform education into a model of democratic organisation where political impacts will be reduced to minimal is a problem in the lack of secular, scientific, and democratic content of education from curriculum to education. The problem is that differences between students are not perceived as a wealth of language, faith, culture, region, gender and so on, but rather as a threat. Again, the lack of a public and free education perspective is the basis of problems when individuals who are away from merit and critical pedagogic approach are involved in decision-making mechanisms in education. Dear lawmakers, education in the native language is one of the most essential human rights in the world. Today, when surveyed by world countries, the United Nations member states of 194 have more than one official language, and in many countries such as Britain, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Germany, China, India and so on, education and education are seen in the main languages. However, according to Article 42 of the Constitution of Turkey, no language, education and teaching institutions other than Turkish can be studied or taught as their native language. The provisions for the use of the native language in education are not limited to the Constitutional provisions alone. Apart from the Constitutional provisions, there are also obstacles in laws such as the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Education Law, the National Education Basic Law, Special Education Institutions Law, Foreign Language Education and Teaching of Turkish Citizens, and the Learning of Different Language and Polish, the Law on Minority Schools, Turkish and Turkish Culture Schools Teachers, as well as many regulations. As a result of this approach, Turkey is subject to countries such as Georgian, nurses, Lazca, Pontus, Syriac, Abazaca, Armenian, Greek, Arabic, Circeçe, Acemce, Mıharlemica, Pomak. More than half of Turkey's nearly 36 languages have slowly begun to disappear because most of them are completely powerless. The AKP's ruling, which has a basic human right to education in the native language, is trying to divert the demand of the people from the deception in which a number of courses are given in the main language in the public schools or in private schools. The demand of Kurdish people and other peoples is not to teach native language in middle school for a few hours, but the demand of the people of Fur is not to be given a few courses in private high schools; the main language-based multilingual education system is the common wish and demand of all the peoples living in this country. Dear lawmakers, we advocate that education is presented in public and without money from pre-school to higher education. However, the AKP government has changed countless changes in all areas of the educational system from its power to 2002 -- from the content of education to the management of education -- ignoring the basic principles of education and the urgent needs of the system. In addition, the AKP has constantly subjected education to transformation, both functionally and organisationally, through its twelve-year mandate. The law of the classrooms is the clearest expression of this policy. All the resources of the state for private schools have been mobilized. The AKP's government has put public resources on the line with this law. For 25 years, the treasures of the National Ministry of Education have been sequestered to the services of capital for up to ten years, including all or some of the school buildings on which they are not assigned, and the additions and complementary parts of these buildings are being used in education and teaching activities. As if these are not enough, they transfer public funds to private schools under the name education support. Today, in Turkey, private school fees for 2013-2014 are an average of $16,000 in primary schools, an average of $18,000 in secondary schools, and an average of $20,000 in high schools. How many million families in Turkey can get their children to study in private schools under these conditions? This practice also created deep and irreparable class and regional inequality. Also, it is not acceptable for private educational institutions to transfer the resources needed for public education -- no matter what the name -- to private educational institutions. What the government really wants to do under the name "supporting private schools" is to encourage private education, direct students and guardians to private schools through financial support. It is undisputedly true that for years private schools have been supported directly by public resources, education has been reduced to the already problematic public quality and has become increasingly widespread in paying education practices. It is unacceptable to try to transfer public resources to private capital sections for commercialisation of education and to market more and more of it every day. In addition, it is unacceptable for the government to implement fold-up tuition at universities where they try to bring it back on the agenda. Fortunately, after yesterday's Council of Ministers meeting, Mr. Arinc stated that the decision to withdraw this application was made, but perhaps we shouldn't take such a risk before the election. Mr. President, it is not very possible to address the government's obligation to open a meeting room to high schools and all of its practices under the name of the headdress, which it has based on freedoms. How true are the AKP's religious policies and fundamental interventions in education? How true is it that religious culture and moral knowledge are mandatory, high schools are mandatory, and the headscarf is free from secondary schools? Can these be discussed on the basis of freedom? Is it acceptable to have religious education in a country where there are millions of Alevi, non-Muslims, atheists, in other words, citizens who do not place religious or religious or religious forms at the center of their lives in a sect different from the Sunni Hanefi sect of Islam? As the European Court of Human Rights has made clear in its decisions, this obligation is a violation of the right to education. It should not be forgotten that the content of the religious culture and moral knowledge course in Turkey is largely filled with the teachings of the Sunni and Hanefi sect. They are taught how to pray, and how to hide, and how to pray, and what to pray for. Thus, the freedoms of religion and conscience of non-Sunni Hanefi, especially the Alevis, are ignored. It is also unacceptable that public and mandatory education, any religion or belief, is imposed on young generations, students, or is treated as an ideological backyard of power. Look, the Governor of Edirne, who has no authority, has come out, explaining that he will give Roma citizens -- please pay attention -- 100 Turkish lira education in exchange for a scholarship. And he's saying they're going to form a Roman mehteran team of 41, as if he didn't have anything else to do. Frankly, he wants to assimilated the differences of the Roma people, their wealth. This is not an acceptable procedure. Let the people, the belonging, the faith, live in its culture, learn from it, and worship according to it. Dear lawmakers, political authorities in Turkey have wanted to organize and shape the educational system in accordance with their political, ideological views for years. The first and most effective method that was applied to carry out these requests was political staffing. Today, the Ministry of Education makes appointments based on their political preferences, not on experience, but on merit. During the AKP's ruling period, the appointment of the Executive Board of Education Directors and Replacement Regulations has been changed countless times. The last time, with the law passed in 2014, tens of thousands of officials serving at the Ministry of National Education were terminated overnight, and the educational environment was in total chaos. The negative impact of these dismissals is still on the national educational institutions. The governor is equipped with the authority to appoint whomever he wants, as the principal, as the assistant manager. As a result, if you think that the governors are often acting as AKP officers, you can also imagine the picture that came out in practice. In the end, the lists of people appointed by governors are also known to be drawn up in union branches near the government. This appointment at the Ministry of National Education and the application for oral examinations on the promotions and the fact that these exams are not registered in any way, that the control mechanisms for examinations are not run, is nothing more than the government's attempt to cover the minaret in political staffing. At this rate, we won't be surprised if the AKP brings in the oral test requirement for the appointment of teachers anytime soon. Precious lawmakers are teachers today who have not been appointed close to 400,000, due to the lack of the Ministry of National Education in line with the NGO during the AKP's rule, and the unsolicited supply-teleptic balance between the teacher needs and the teaching department quotas, which cannot be established in a healthy manner. The figure is more than 250,000, according to the Ministry of National Education data. According to the National Minister of Education, the number of teachers needed is about 120. Today, in exchange for the need for teachers and teachers that have not been assigned so much, the Ministry is employing 55,000 paid teachers unsecuredly as a cheap labor force. Before becoming Prime Minister, President Erdogan used the exact statement at a rally in Istanbul -- just before he arrived -- in 2002: "Many of our young people, especially our teachers, have been unemployed. The country has collapsed, the village schools are closed, and even the schools at the center are dying to be teachers, and you're auditioning for teachers. Why don't you let our young teachers go and work? You keep him waiting all these years, and then you take him; does he have any more enthusiasm, or can he teach? But, hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will go to school with a love of duty on the day the school ends, don't worry. Again, the non-assigned teacher in 2002 was 70 thousand, while today it is 400,000. On 20 January 2013, in Gaziantep, Erdogan was asked to be appointed in February. "Sorry, that's what we said. Take the game, keep it to yourself." he replied. Two thirds of the education workers were forced to do additional work in order to live a life worthy of human dignity, especially today the power of teachers to buy has been significantly diminished. As of 12 years ago, when the AKP was in power, compared the salaries of education workers and the salaries of other public workers: A new teacher in 2002 is 4% less than a police officer in the same situation. A new teacher in 2014 is 32 percent less than a 8th-degree police officer. The salary of a new teacher in 2002 is 43 percent less than a doctor's doctor's salary. A new teacher in 2002 receives 34 per cent less than public defenders. According to OECD reports, a 15-year teacher at primary school in Turkey earns an average of 27,338 Turkish liras annually, while the average is 38,914 Turkish liras in OECD countries. In secondary school, a 15-year-old teacher's average income in Turkey was $28,000 Turkish, while in OECD countries, 43,711 Turkish lira. Dear lawmakers, we need to propose a different thesis on the radical democracy of the educational system. It could be called "democratic schools." As we said at the beginning of our discussion, all problems must be reduced to a minimum and the education system must be restored to a democratic structure. Education in Turkey is completely under the control and pressure of central policies. The autonomy of schools is out of the question. The staffing in the educational system has put pressure on opposition education workers. The training structure with the 4+4+4 system was suddenly changed. In accordance with the law of the classrooms, 100,000 executives were terminated in an instant. To overcome this, schools must be given autonomy, school councils must be established with the participation of teachers, students, guardians, and many decisions concerning the school must be made in these parliaments. Since teaching is an actual task, management should be removed from being the staff of political authorities in schools. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this sense, what needs to be done is to dominate the entire country of the scientific, autonomous, broke, democratic and native language education system. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0034par0469	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter, please come in.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0035par0472	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, so far, we've said a lot about his educational policies during the 12 years of Justice and Development Party's power: his lack of education planning, his complete disregard for quality in education, full political staffing in education, and all education projects, unfortunately, are political and imaginary projects, but this is a geneor. You have to say something concrete when you're younger. So, I'd like to bring up the concrete issues, not the general structure of education, and I'd like to share with you the views of the Republican People's Party Group on these concrete issues. First of all, during the Ministry of Mr. Nabi Avcı (Mr. Nabi Avcı) during the period of the Ministry of Avcı, we have encountered practices, which, unfortunately, we have not seen -- even in some former ministers -- specifically underline the word genius -- which ignore the law, the judicial decisions, which have ignored the Constitutional Court's ruling, and have led to serious violations of rights. Second: We have faced pressure on freedom of faith, which is a fundamental right -- to present you with documents -- Mr. Secretary -- to freedom of faith. A third fundamental issue: Despite the collapse of the exam system and the collapse of the system, we have faced the victims of a lack of will to get the system back on its feet. Now, first of all, I'd like to start with a matter that both ignores the judgment and leads to very important violations of rights, the appointment of branch managers of the Ministry of National Education. Now, my dear friends, in 2013, PFC took a test for the branch manager's office. 40,000 people took this test, a written test. 5,914 people passed this test. In phase two, they've been tested verbally. Those who received oral examinations also passed the oral examination of 3,287. Now, naturally, if there's a written test and an oral exam, what do you do? They're both averages, right? No, that's not what happened. The oral exam was based on, the written exam was ignored, so imagine that the written exam was considered equal to zero, and the appointment of 1,709 branch managers based solely on the oral exam.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0036par0479	I give up, it's a disgrace!
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0035par0480	When the appointment of this 1,709 branch manager is made by oral examination alone, we know the GPA of the remaining. I'll give you an example: 83 from the script, 30 from the oral, whatever! I mean, it was a very clear and clear lineup. So, what happened? The court has applied. The court has decided to stop the execution. Lawsuits have been filed against administrative courts, administrative courts, individual cases, of course. In these cases, administrative courts have made decisions that the appointment must be made with an arithmetic average and cannot be appointed based on oral examinations. Finally, Ankara 9. Management Court basically cancelled the appointment of 1,700 branch managers, canceled, canceled. Now, what do you do here? A similar situation took place during the Mr. Hussein Steel era regarding school principals. In return, Huseyin Çelik issued a verdict and wrote to the relevant units in order to implement the judicial decision. And what did the Minister do? Nothing, he didn't do anything, it's still a victim. What will be done today, thousands of branch managers, in view of these serious violations of rights and the disregard of judicial decisions? Perhaps a sentence will come out of the Minister's mouth. He is watching us in hope. I think Mr. Secretary should have an answer to that in his speech. Stop thinking about its response, and it's obvious it's mandatory. This rights violation and this law-breaking practice must be terminated. As for the Constitutional Court, it's a second serious application that ignores its verdict. Dear friends, you know, in the university entrance exams conducted by the SNSM, the exam questions have been excluded from the scope of the Information Act. It means that the test questions and the answers won't be published. Such a legal arrangement has been made, which makes no sense. At that time, we object here, we said it couldn't happen over and over again. After that, the Republican People's Party brought this clause to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court called it off. So, right now, the questions and answers in the SNSM exams are no longer within the scope of the Information Act, but are now within the scope of the right to get information. And what was the result of that? ÖSYM issued a statement saying that the Constitutional Court's decision there stood at the door and said in this statement: "We must decide whether these questions will be published or not in Law 6114." If our Governing Body does not approve of this, we will not publish it. (He did not simply add one more thing, he said: "My dear, those who want to know the answer to the question, or those who want to see the question, apply to the OSYM. I mean, a student took the college exam, took it, asked questions and wants to see the answer. He comes here, we show him. I mean, it's tragic, it's shameful. Of course, the student will take those questions, evaluate himself, draw, write, maybe create an infrastructure for the next test. This is ignoring the Constitutional Court's decision. However, we know that the Constitutional Court's decisions are binding for all public institutions and organizations, and, of course, for the SNS. If you ignore this, you are in fact violating the 146th article of the Constitution. Who, what, has he come down from heaven, is he very privileged, but the Minister has no control over the mistakes or scandals related to this OSS? I think that should be answered, too. Another major rights violation took place on the LYS-2 exam in 2014. Dear lawmakers will take the LYS-2 exam as part of admission to the university in June. The students -- a change in practice -- send their application fees to the SNS by means of the bank first. They sent it, it's fine, they've got receipts, they've sent it. From behind, they fill out a form from the NGO website. They filled out the form. The last time there was a confirmation button, they didn't press the confirmation button because they didn't see it. When the test results came in, they looked for the locations, where they were going to enter -- there was no notice of these students. And they petitioned him, and sent him receipts that they had invested their money. How many are they? 9,3343 people. Don't think of three or five, 9,3343 people. Now, Despite these receipts and petitions, the OSI did not take them. There's another thing: 28 of these 9,343 students didn't do it themselves, so the school principals did it, so it's the school principals' fault. However, the OSCE has announced its decision not to take them, and eight of these children have submitted to administrative judiciary, stopped administrative judicial proceedings, and have been taken to the examination. How many? Eight of them. So the judgment says you're right. You're right. Isn't it a violation of the rights or not? During that time, I talked to Mr. Secretary about it, and I said, let's say that we have our own child, one of these 9,3343 things, we'd knock down mountains, what we wouldn't do. Please, contact the head of staff, make sure these students are tested, you are the Minister of National Education. Mr. Secretary said he would, and then he turned around and explained to me: "Well, yes, it's true, it's true, it's true, at least, but it's true, at least 10,000 more questions, and since the printers are full, the OSYM can't print 10,000 new books, so these children can't be taken to the test. I told Mr. Secretary that I didn't accept it. You rent a printing press, you take a security measure, you print those pamphlets overnight, you show an address in Ankara, you take them all on the Ankara exam, you eliminate this victim. Now, what happened? One of the students who took the exam filed a lawsuit -- a student who entered and won a medical school -- won the case and was granted compensation. Now, one, I would like to express to you that I regretfully condemn the Minister of National Education, who is not doing his part here. Two, I'd like to announce to them that they will be able to claim the price of that year by suing each and every one of these 9,3343 student families for a year of their lives. (CHEERING) It's a violation of rights, that's unfair. In its simplest terms, the Minister of National Education is also here to neglect the mission, and I stress that. Now, about the TEOG exams. Dear friends, we know about the TEOG exam, it was done very soon, it happened. The TEOG exam revealed various victims. Here's the problem with private school records being taken late, the kids being placed in schools they don't want, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Mr. Secretary explained, he said. ▪ We have reconsidered these tests. What are we gonna do? Well, can't we ask as Republican People's Party, dear MPs, what was the sin of these victims? Are these test boards? When you say, "Is this not a statement of your failure?" (CHP) This is a declaration of failure and the acceptance of the victimization of these students. Therefore, no one, even at the head of the state, has the right to go out and steal years out of our children's lives with these unresolved, imaginary projects, whether it's at the head of national education or at the head of the government. Now, to another interesting project, values training: Values education has not just begun, Mr. Nimet Head started in 2010. It went on quietly, in a very good way, and suddenly the values changed education, changed structure. Suddenly, values education gained a format to change the genetic structure of students, and the Ministry of National Education signed a protocol with a foundation called the Foundation for Service regarding education; with this protocol, it agreed that all education of values should be found and determined by this Service Foundation. Who is the Service Foundation? When you go to the service foundation website and look at it, you'll see who it is. The founders of the Service Foundation and until very recently, the president doesn't even have an official elementary school degree. He never received a degree from any official school, and so far all he's done is print and distribute some religious books, a foundation created by people who are even suspicious of his reading, a foundation dedicated to the education of values under the name of Nurcu, the lives of our children, that's one. Well, how is it that even though this foundation is Nurcu, when you're going through parallel conflicts like this, if any of you wonder if this is happening, the head of this foundation, on December 31, 2013, made a very hard statement that the applications of the Fethullah Gulen were completely contrary to Risale-i Nuri, and in no way could be accepted by Nurcu. Seven months after that, this protocol was signed with a purely political decision, and the education that our children would receive, which was actually extremely valuable and important, was handed over to a foundation that was to publish and distribute three or five religious books. I want Mr. Secretary to tear up this protocol, there's a protocol to tear it up. (CHEERING) I'm looking forward to it, Mr. Secretary. As for one last interesting event: on February 3, 2015, an article was sent to schools about religious culture and ethics. It was mandatory, even though the ECHR has decided, he claims, insists that national education is a mandatory lesson. I read a line in the article: "Students from other religions, other than Christianity and Judaism, or who do not believe in any religion, must study religious culture and morality. " So if you're Christian and Jewish, you may not take this class. The Ministry says that if you're a member of a religion or don't believe in any religion other than that, I'll force you to study it. Is this freedom of faith, Mr. Secretary? Is this freedom of faith? (CHEERING) It's not acceptable. That's what the pressure is all about. It's a pressure. And it won't be easy for you to pull that off. Now, to your most imaginary project: the most imaginary and political project, the FATIH Project, which took place a month before the 2011 elections, has collapsed, Mr. Secretary, and it has collapsed so badly that you've fallen under it. The project is contaminated with corruption. How many questions have I given you? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You didn't answer my question motion, but the company mentioned in the question motion filed a lawsuit against me for $100,000, and that company threatened me over the phone. In this regard, I'll present you with a file in the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0037par0499	So the government is cooperating with the bandits?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0038par0500	Thank you, Mr. Serker. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Avni Erdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0504	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, to respect all of you, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with regard to all 25 members of Ankara MP Zühal Topcu and our National Education Minister Nabi Avcı. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, when given a serious business, when issues are presented, they need to find makeup on the public conscience and on the conscience of the High Assembly, or else it causes the institution to wear out, lose its influence. With this eye, a few of the gene questions say: "The Fatih Project has not been completed. The Academysians have been forgotten. Dear friends, the activities of the EC PARTY in the field of education are listed as the issue of this gene, and the problems faced in the application are cited as the cause of the gene. As a matter of fact, I'd lie if I said I wasn't happy for Mr. Secretary, as a member of the AK PARTI, when I saw these issues as the reason for the gene. We, the EC PARTY, stand by our 12 years of power and education. Mr. Hussain Steel Sir, Mr. Nimet Chief Lady, Mr. Omar Dinçer Sir, during the course of his ministry, they applied the education policies of the EC PARTY...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0040par0508	Erkan, what happened?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0509	...and in strengthening physical infrastructure in education, meeting with technology, renovating courses, building structural reforms, all of which are very important; I thank them from here.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0041par0510	He started by saying he'd taken every piece of debris that came in, but how?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0511	Mr. Nabi Avcı has made a sincere effort to raise the flag of kindness, grace, wisdom, and the flag of service to higher heights, has adopted the liberal, pluralist approach in education, has brought the freedom of clothing; has launched the TEOG system, which is based on school, teacher, and student. Unfortunately, he's been asked to thank you for these important changes and services, and we're interviewing him today. We, of course, respect the right of control of the opposition and will take into account their criticism, take advantage of the proposals for solutions to the problems faced. We'll see what can be done. On this occasion, we will share 12 years of education with our Parliament, with our nation. We thank them for the opportunity. Dear friends, from its establishment, the AK PARTI authorities have put great emphasis on education and have always devoted the largest share of the budget to education, with the belief that the strong state, yes, that the happy nation can achieve its goal only through education. Yeah, we've done 13 budgets, and they're all top-notch training. In Turkey, where we took over, the former Turkey, in 2002, the National Ministry of Defence budget was 8.2 billion, the Ministry of Education budget 7.4 billion...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0042par0514	Mr. Avni, tell me about the investment shares, the investment budgets; come to the investments.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0515	...the national Department of Defense budget, yes, was more than the National Ministry of Education budget. In 2015, we see the National Ministry of Defence budget is 22.7 billion and the National Ministry of Education budget is 62 billion. So in 2002, when the Ministry of National Defence was more than the Ministry of National Education budget, 2015...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0043par0516	Let's take a look at the Head of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0517	...the National Ministry of Education budget is nearly tripled in the National Ministry of Defence budget. This is important to show how much we care about education. As the AK PARTI government, we also carried out important studies to ensure the equality of opportunities in the education of the Constitution. Yes, for that purpose, we distributed the textbooks for free and saved our parents a great deal of trouble. Is it true? Right. If you want, you can say it's wrong. Our nation sees the books on the table on the day the schools open and the children come home in the evening with the book, and it's happening. We encouraged small-income families to send their children to school with conditional education benefits. We've expanded the transport training practices to include the high school. What's the reason for the opposition's gene? The FATHIH Project could not be completed. Can you imagine that a project has not yet been completed? So it's really hard to find a subject for Mr. Nabi Avcı. Yes, we started Project FATHIH, with the use of information and communication technology, aimed for an increase in quality in education, raised 65 thousand smart boards in 3,657 schools, distributed 739 tablets to our teachers and students. This project is a big project, and the most important feature is to ensure that the local IT sector is formed and strengthened, and prepare our children for the age in which they will live. Dear lawmakers, as we have devoted the largest share of the budget to education, we have assigned the most staff each year. Today, we appointed 473,000 of the 866 thousand teachers who worked as AK PARTI authorities, so more than half of the teachers who worked today were appointed to the AK PARTY. Mr. Nabi was appointed 92,374 teachers in two years during the Hunter era. It has just been said that there is a relationship between the passion of choice and the appointment of teachers. They know that they are wrong here. If we were to do populism, then we would have to do a lot of postings -- yes, regardless of the country's economy. Dear friends, we have improved human and physical infrastructure in education. There were 347 thousand classes in 2002, and we have completed the construction of 234,000 new classes in the last 12 years.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0044par0523	You're still teaching at combined schools, classrooms.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0524	We've raised schooling rates in all levels, especially in girls' schooling. We've raised the schooling rate of 11 per cent in preschool education to 42 per cent. Come, say: No, you didn't. We supported special education, valued lawmakers. These studies have increased quality in education, contributed to the equality of opportunity. It's always been criticised -- and it's been criticised -- if we evaluate the PISA results in terms of equal opportunities in education, we'll see that success more clearly. Because the difference between family children with the lowest income group in 2003 and family children with the highest income group was 122, and in 2012 the difference was down to 86. In OECD countries, the difference between the two groups is 90. I mean, we've come to a better point in this area than OECD countries with policies for the equality of opportunity we've been implementing for 12 years. Dear lawmakers, in fact, 2003-2015 was the year of the move in education. At this time, we adopted a more democratic and liberal education. With the 4+4+4 system, we wiped out the last traces of February 28th in training. The victims of February 28th have returned to their professions. We lifted the ban on headscarf in middle school and high school. We took into account the student's skills and experience, brought in new electives, and began to make him choose the Koran and cyer classes. We've started 12 years of mandatory training. My fellow lawmakers, the problems of growth and development in business schools have still not been solved. Those who say that do not know what is being done for vocational education or where vocational education is coming from today. I believe that if they knew about this, they wouldn't have given reason to their questions. Unfortunately, with uninterrupted education, coefficient injustice, the college of vocational high schools has been cut off; you can't be an electrical engineer to an electrical degree in vocational high school. You can't be an engineer to the machine department. After all, no one sent their child to vocational high schools with no chance of getting into college, and vocational high schools turned into a high school of sad, hopeless kids with no hope. He's had a problem with vocational education, he's been seriously injured. The cries of the children of this nation, who were victims of these decisions, were not heard, their tears were flooded and they drowned the oligarchy, unfortunately, unrecognised. Yes, before us, before the AK PARTI rule, we will intercept the Imam-haki upper secondary schools. The coefficient, called the "Imam-haki" was struck with its injustice by all vocational education. We've eliminated your coefficient injustice, cleared the way for vocational education. We supported vocational high schools in organized industries. The demand for vocational upper secondary schools increased rapidly. We have increased the share of vocational and technical education from 36 per cent to 54 per cent. We're on the European average right now. Well, that's the result. Is that why there's no growth and improvement in vocational high schools? Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, today has been the reason for the TEOG system geneorization, which has taken the school, teacher and student to the centre of education and reduces the need for extracurricular institutions. So why are these criticisms of TEOG▪ being done, and where is the problem? I believe there are two reasons for these criticisms: that I don't know the system, that I don't know the system, that I don't know the right to criticize everything, that I don't remember the law, that I don't know the system.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0045par0530	You admitted your mistake, changed the system.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0039par0531	The main feature of TEOG is that the student success is not based on a momentary performance, but by spreading it to a wide range of time. As an educator beyond being a politician, I believe that TEOG is a transparent, open system, a system free of favor. A periodary test by the teacher in the 8th grade for six basic lessons, yes, is being done centrally. This test is conducted at the student's school in the same environment as his friends, no stress, no stress. The 6th, 7th, 8th grade success points and the 8th grade -- which I just expressed -- are combined with common test scores, and they have placement points. With these placement points, the students are choosing. There are two choices: one of them is the (A) group prefers the school type. Yes, the students make choices based on their score. Schools have codes. A student in Edirne, a student in Kars, prefers a school in Kars, according to a school code in Istanbul, according to his score. On the other hand, the student group B, which believes it cannot be settled here, makes four of the choices we call the choice. (A) Students who score points for their group preferences, wherever their address is, yes, are automatically installed by the e-school system at the school they want. (A) Our students who are unable to settle in group preferences are automatically appointed by the system based on their points preferences from four schools (B) that they prefer, considering their preferences, to the school, which has the nearest vacant quota to their address. Dear friends, there is talk of the existence of those who are zeroing, and on the one hand, there are many students who do all the questions. They are called. Don't you think that's a contradiction? Yes, now that the students are in charge of what they do, success is increasing for them. Dear friends, this is the most important achievement of TEOG. It reveals the school as a center. What are the application results, fellas? Yes, according to the results of the storm formations, believe me, of the 1 million 300,000 students who graduated from the 8th grade and graduated, 136,000 students chose not to make a choice. Why? He wanted to go to private school or finished minority school, didn't make a choice. It's because our children don't make choices, of course they're associated with a school by the system. However, these friends, these children, let's say they're associated with this Rize imam-gap -- they're associated with the system so that he's not a fugitive -- go directly to whatever private school our friend is going to, he's going to the private school where he wants to register, so he's getting his record automatically, so he doesn't see Rize, he doesn't see our people, he doesn't have the victims of our students. Dear friends, it's said that students from the TEOG are not happy. Because of problems with the TEOG exam, parents and students' psychology has been corrupted. Friends, don't worry, students, teachers and parents are satisfied with TEOG. The polls have more than 85 per cent satisfaction. Dear friends, unfortunately and unfortunately, the gene is forgotten. It's called the Academysian. Believe me, even if you don't know it, the academics know it's not forgotten. As soon as our Prime Minister, who is also an academic, began his posting, the professors were given an increase of about 35 per cent, along with academic stimulus. Yes, unfortunately, free courses for the needy student at school have been the cause of the geneorization in this country. Government-owned courses have been opened because of the closure of the classrooms. It comes from a lack of student demand, where the process will fail. It is tried. Let's see, are the facts true or low demand? As of November 4, 2014, the number of schools opened across the country is 17,000 and the number of courses opened is 196,000, and the number of students applying is 2,547,902, and the number of teachers assigned is more than 104,000. So we need courses, so demand is not short. Make no mistake, the fees of the teachers who attend the courses will be fixed as soon as possible. Dear friends, yes, freesuit application is also the cause of the geneorization. Friends, let's trust the parents, trust the students, respect the decisions they make. The regulations are very clear, the decision is made by students and guardians. Let's look at the world, look at the developed countries; the only type of dress practice left France in 1968, Germany in the 1980s, England in the 1950s. What's wrong with students in the same neighborhood outside of school, who play together in free clothes on the street, who are friends, who wear free clothes to school? The self-esteem of school students who apply free clothes, the glare in their eyes, really shows how right we are. My dear friends, yes, I also find it difficult to understand the understanding of Mr. Nabi Avcı, who asked Mr. Nabi Avcı, and who counted the reason for the gene. If the failure to change the NGO Law is the geneor and the minister's failure, then since 1982, the governments, including the MHP and CHP, would have to resign at all times. Let us not forget, however, that it is impossible to change the name of the SEC Law, which is older than the Constitution, without changing the Constitution -- abbreviating higher education institutions. Yes, without changing the Constitution, a radical SEC change is difficult. If we were to say, "Let's change the Constitution and the RD Law," you'd still say, "One of you would drink tea." You'd say, "Don't come, the other one would be closed." Don't worry, dear friends, I hope 2015 will be the new year of the constitution. At that time, the law will change, and I hope to change it, will be given to us by the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, here are the genesor and reasons for lack of truth and basis; here are the educational policies of our Minister Nabi Avcı and AK PARTI's power; I believe that anyone who puts his hand on his conscience will say: "Thank you, AK PARTI, Mr. Nabi Hunter." With such feelings, the AK PARTY group declares that we are against the motion to ask about Mr. Nabi Avcı, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0046par0544	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. On behalf of the government, Minister of National Education, Mr. Nabi Avcı. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0548	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, once again, we stand before you in the presence of the Ministry of National Education on the basis of the gene. So we thank our friends so much that they can remember once again what we did, what we didn't do. Now, because of the time limit, I'd like to review issues that have been expressed on the basis of the geneorization, very quickly. First claim: 4+4+4 education system implemented without pilot application. Friends, the 4+4+4 education system has been gradually transferred. It was a gradual transition in the first year, in the 1st and 9th grade, and the middle classes were not affected by these first transitions. In this framework, weekly schedules and schedules have also been gradually changed. The second claim is about the age of children starting schools. At the end of September of the year when schools will be opened, children who have completed 66 months must start primary school. Between 60 and 66 months, children are enrolled in primary school at the request of their parents. 66 - 72 - month - old children who are thought not to be physically or spiritually ready can register in primary school instead of in primary school with a doctor's report. Besides, no matter what month, no matter what age, no matter what month she's enrolled in primary school, all of our children are first trained in harmony. We did a study on this, where 11.957 school principals participated in the study to assess the situation. 70 per cent of school principals said that the first-class integration and preparation work contributed to the integration of students and their parents. Third claim on motive: free clothing application. Allegedly, this practice has created problems for both the school boards and the teachers. Now, first of all, it's important to remember that in no European Union country, there is no mandatory and one type of student application. In our practice, student clothes are determined according to the majority decision of parents, and we have no restrictions except on the principle of following economic, simple and pedagogical fundamentals. And this practice has also contributed very seriously to the culture of democracy, especially since decisions have been developed through the PTA. The fourth claim is that schools have to do more than one education with 4+4+4. The transformation of schools was extended to three years in our plan, and by the year of the 2014-2015 education, 98 percent of our buildings were transformed into elementary schools and secondary schools. You can applaud here, 98%. (AK PARTY) Three per cent of upper secondary schools under the Central School General Directorate, only 8 per cent of our vocational and technical upper secondary schools have bilateral education; 3 per cent and 8 per cent. We're still working to eliminate the entire two-way training. The fifth claim: "The teacher and the managers have not been taken care of." Now, Mr. Avni has just explained the numbers, but we understand that the opposition does not follow our actions to the day of the day, and even we ourselves find it difficult to keep track of ourselves. Mr. Avni said there were 92 thousand appointments; he didn't include the last appointment, the 15,000 this month. So, when we added it, 107,374, but it was a good humility as a sign that the AK PARTY was competing with itself. We've appointed 107,374 teachers.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0048par0555	Retired, out-of-work, what's the difference?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0556	With them, I, not to brag, am also proud to be the most appointed minister in the history of the Republic, and to thank our group, our government, separately for their support in this matter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is a claim that our teachers were victimized by their appointment as partners: In 2013-2014, all of our teachers' demands for replacements were met due to co-existence and health apology. In the first half of 2015, these days, we met 98 percent of the demands made as we entered the semester. We've been searching for solutions for our teacher around 800 or so, and we've combined 98 percent to somehow bring them together with their wives. Health apology and changes to places that affect private life have been made before periodically, and now we do it at any time when the necessary documents are presented. We have no rules of waiting for the end of the semester, especially for reasons related to health apology or personal life, and we apply them immediately, depending on the urgency and seriousness of the matter. The next, sixth claim, again linked to this: families united as if they had been united and replaced as if they had broken up families, came to the brink of suicide because they were unhappy in their fields. Yeah, we put it all together. We also allowed our teachers who were unhappy with the change of field, who were unhappy with the new area they had passed, to return to their former areas from December 2013, and to address that problem. A number of claims about the FATIH Project were made here. In short, Mr. Avni sums it up very well, but it's useful again. This practice started in 2012, you know, with regard to the FATIH Project. In our high school-level schools, 114.921 classes have been placed in the entire interactive board. The installation of multifunctional printers at 20.269 schools is complete. 737,800 tablets were delivered to our computer teachers and students. The local area networking of 3.516 schools is complete.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0049par0563	What are the odds, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0564	One of the things that we particularly care about in the project is that the tablet computers that we're going to take, and the tablet computers that we're going to get in the future, as the law states, have a high rate of domesticity. That's why we've been going over our contracts a lot. So, the prenup is a little late, so we have a delay there. In 2015, hopefully, I'm saying that we're going to be receiving 10,600,000 tablets of computers.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0049par0565	The rate is 4%.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0566	Now, there are allegations of PTSD and exams. Of course, these cheating allegations are as old as the history of exams, they've been happening since long ago. But let me stress once again that these duplicate claims have never been fought as effectively as they have at this time. A new test was taken, and a criminal investigation is under way. In 2012, the court and prosecutor's exam for lawyers launched a judicial procedure on abnormal findings that were obtained after the analysis of the SNSM after the examination. A deterrent prison sentences against the law also minimized high-level search and security measures carried out in examination halls and buildings, signal cutters, cameras used in halls, post-test analysis, application and identity records inspection attempts. Now, it's not directly relevant to this, but because it's relevant to the institution, because it's related to the OSYM, and because it's related to the building, the 10,000 students that Fatma Nur Hanım had just mentioned about not being able to take the exam, as she explained herself, but there is an addition to the fact that these students -- as she said -- did not just take the test because they couldn't take the test because of our own approval button. Now, we need to redesign the exam halls to include these students, test safety, question safety... because the questions that will be distributed to those halls are written in the name and the packets of reply papers must be opened, and each student, 10,000 students, have to be put back in those packages, which we can't do because there will be a process that will make all the safety of the test.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0049par0568	It was, and I said the same thing.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0569	Sir, there's a claim that we've been ignoring ten-year-old AK PARTI staffs and continuing with non-special staff... from our current staff, especially from our top management, that I understand, has been critical of education. Our undersecretary's careers in average education are 24 years, at least 17 years at the general manager's level, at least 12 years of education at the level of office head...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0049par0570	Who are you talking to? Are you talking to me? I didn't say that.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0571	It's not about you. Sir, the matter of the classrooms... I think that's the real reason for this question. Now, what's the latest? I'll brief you on her.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0050par0573	Couldn't it be that you didn't enforce court orders, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0574	The number of institutions applying from the classrooms to become private schools is 1,295. 979 of these have been approved into the transformation program. Now, the transformation process of the classrooms will leave the workers unemployed. There is a motive or a claim, such as there. On the contrary, the classrooms that turn into schools will need more staff, and it will also open up a new employment area.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0051par0576	Why did you open so many classrooms, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0577	As of February 6, 2015, 44,470 people work as training staff in our classrooms, in our changing classrooms. The motion now says that one 100,000 people will be unemployed, hundreds of thousands of people will be unemployed, hundreds of thousands of people will be unemployed, except for the training staff. I'll tell you the real number: 5,536 people working in the classrooms, insured, registered employees -- not 100,000 people in this situation. Now, there are allegations about our supplementary courses, about our supplementary courses in connection with the classrooms, in the motion, that the supplement courses have been opened, but the students and teachers have not been interested in them. So, what was the number of students who went to the classroom, how many of them went to the supplementary courses we opened? The number of students going to the classrooms before the arrangement is 1,220,000, those going to the classrooms. From October 2014, we have 2 million 547,902. We have 1,200,000 students going to the classrooms, more than 2 million, 547 thousand, and more than twice that. And we've also increased the tuition in our supplementary courses -- as you said -- despite very low prices -- thank you very much -- but...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0052par0580	Then why did you increase the number of classrooms during your reign, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0581	Our 104,799 teachers are working on these supplemental courses without looking at the price. I want to thank all of them from here one more time at a time. On behalf of our children, on behalf of our national education, I thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0053par0582	Minister, will you support the boycott? There's a boycott tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0583	This claim that teachers are not being paid satisfactory fees is perhaps the only true argument of this motion for the geneorization. Right, we're not paying a satisfactory fee, but, like I said, 104 thousand teachers, even though volunteering is now voluntary... we've increased it, so the Plan and Budget Commission has approved it. I'd like to thank all our friends for their contribution to the Plan and Budget Commission. We've doubled the tuition fees for our teachers in these supplementary courses. What did we do when we doubled it? It was $9, so we made $18. So I want to thank our teachers again for their sacrifice.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0053par0584	Do you have anything to say for the boycott? There's a boycott tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0585	This is about giving oral exams to newly appointed teachers. Now, since time is running out, I'll read it quickly. The newly appointed teachers will be made to grow in a more versatile way in line with their competencies, to be given in-service training, and then to be evaluated for performance, followed by written and verbal examinations. So it's not just the oral exam claim that's true. We follow students who register in open high schools. In the appointment of the school principal, members of the supporting unions were elected. We've evaluated the director of the 16,559 educational institute who completed his four-year term. At the end of the evaluations, 8,156 of the 75 and above areas continue their duties.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0054par0589	Based on what? You've relieved a lot of laboring managers.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0590	I'm saying it according to the unions. The distribution of managers who scored 75 and more points under the extension of their mandates according to trade unions: EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN; 6,903 people have been evaluated, 4,900 have succeeded, over 75. Turkish Education-SEN; 3,922 people have been evaluated and 1.146 have taken over 75. EDUCATION: 1,207 people have been evaluated, 386 people have taken over 75, EDUCATION, 403 people, 84... The others are smaller numbers.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0055par0597	80 percent Education-One-SEN Teacher!
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0598	The parents' psychology, students' psychology have been corrupted because of problems with theTEOG exams. On the contrary, we have some very serious research here. I find it comforting that joint exams should be conducted in my own school -- such as the tests we call "TEOG" -- are 87 percent of the students who say, "It's a relief." Joint exams are positive in two days, 86 per cent. So when we ask about all the components of the test, our survey studies show satisfaction between 80 and 90 percent. Now these days, 4,800 students in these recent exams, sir, how did all these children get a complete score? Now, friends, over 1,300,000 students. These aren't quizzes, these are controlled written in the classrooms. I mean, the written exams that you and I and I all took in our normal high school lives. Some of the kids scored a perfect score on their written exam. How much? 4,800 of the 1,300,000 students. That's not a suspicious ratio either. And yet, when there's a pile-up in any way, we're also investigating them somewhere, to see if there's a problem there. Also, these TEOG exams are being changed again. An expression, such as this, is said here and outside. That's not true.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0056par0605	Why aren't the results explained? We want results.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0606	Look, last year, under the incentive of our first private schools, we made the children look like they were involved in a public school. Now, since we can give our children this year's private schools the same incentive, your children must be in a public school...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0057par0608	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0047par0609	Would you excuse me for a moment? Three groups talked for 60 minutes.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0057par0610	One second, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0058par0611	Teacher, we want statistics.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0057par0612	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0059par0613	Give it a little longer.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0057par0614	It can't be that much. This is the first time I've ever done anything like this.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0059par0615	We didn't do the TEOG exams again, we just didn't need some practice we did last year. We've also announced this on the website of the Ministry of National Education, the changes we're thinking of doing, the draft, we're doing it a lot, but unfortunately, it's overlooked. We are making sure to announce every new regulation or arrangement on the website of the Ministry of National Education. We're explaining this so that all of the relevant shareholders, students, teachers, politicians, NGOs, educators can enter, please give us their assessments, criticisms, suggestions. I have to go randomly -- look, in 2004 in our vocational upper secondary schools, because of that coefficient application, there were 1, 102 thousand students, and in 2014 we train in 2 million 513 thousand and 62 fields in 226 branches. This number of students and this schooling rate are above OECD averages. Teachers know about the teachers' salaries, in the amount of their dollars, in the euro, there's a 200 per cent increase, 98.17 per cent increase. Our arrangements for academics abroad, our children abroad, our students who have a PhD, have a master's degree, they know what they can afford. We discussed the tuition-folding issue at the Council of Ministers yesterday regarding the tuition issue. We've explained the arrangement for him. There's a lot more to say, but that's the end of it, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0060par0621	Mr. Secretary, can you tell the branch managers?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0061par0622	It's about Kurdish schools...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0059par0623	I thank our friends who made this motion, and I thank our friends who gave us this conversation. The conversation's mutual. But I know that in your eyes, the best Minister of National Education is the Minister of National Education who's gone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're still here. Thank you very much. Have a good day at work. I want to thank you all separately.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit01spe0062par0628	Thank you, Mr. Hunter. Talks have been completed on whether or not the motion to ask for a full-blown motion on Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education, will be taken into consideration. Now, I submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene should be taken into consideration: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept... the motion of the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0062par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection and Development of the Variety of Cultural Statement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission for Foreign Affairs, where we left off from the meeting of the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, in accordance with the Computing of the Status of the Structural Substances in Visegrad, Preping the Restoration Project and Approval Protocol. The Commission and the Government are here. Talks were completed on Article 2 of the bill in the 86, dated 07/05/2014. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, I'm going to read the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There are demands on the third article. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0063par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, indeed, the matter has been discussed, but I'd like to share with you an important matter, so I have made a promise. Our cultural assets left in the Balkans are very important for Turkey, and you'll all appreciate it. It's very important that they be restored and protected. Because in a 500-year-old Ottoman period there, the Ottoman rule is all a work of Turkish domination that we have left, which has been sent down to us. I'm going to go over a few things here, but I'd like to share something with you. You know, in 1923, there was an exchange, and the Turks in Greece were transferred to Anatolia, and the Greeks in Anatolia, outside Istanbul, were transferred to Greece. And that's when some very sad things happened. As the Turks emigrated to Turkey left their homes for 500 years, they actually returned leaving the graves of all their fathers, mothers, fathers. Here, I'd like to give you an example of them, a sad example, an example that has already happened. They call it "The Last Ezan. " Our ambassador, Erol Uzsoy, wrote it. I'd like to read the subject as it is to share it with you. This time, Müezzin Ismail walked slowly to the minaret where he had been going five times a day for many years. If you don't speak, I beg of you. In the silence and coolness of the night, he looked at the darkness of the plain, and the weak lights in the houses below. He put his hands in his ears, thinking that the persecution he had read hundreds of times would echo for the last time in this small town, where his ancestors had lived for centuries. He closed his eyes with a deep sigh. As the twine-like tears soared toward their grayly fallen beards, he began to read his yacht prayer with a heavy, burning voice. In the mosque, lit with oil lamps, the imam lord and the congregation listened for the last time, with their heads bowed down, their eyes flowing with tears, to the yacht prayer read by Lord Ismail. All the townsmen to the far end of town, with the same sadness and silence, their heads in front of them, waited for the persecution to end. When Lord Imam Saşik made his last comment and greeted him, the sobs of the congregation echoed in silence, as if tomorrow they would not all fall apart, perhaps they would never see each other again, everyone in front of their heads, and a thousand thoughts in their heads followed the way of his home. When the whole congregation was disbanded, Master Safik saw that there was no one left but Muezzin Ismail, who stood at the door. He said, "You can go too, Ismail sir." "I'll close the door." Master Ismail came out of his throat with nothing to say with a knot in his throat. Mr. Imam Shafik collapsed where he was in his robe and took off his turban. When he was a little boy, he thought about coming to this mosque with his grandfather, and the holiday prayers at the mosque, and the festivals in the courtyard, and the lessons he had learned from his mosque teacher. If someone had told this ancient mosque that he would perform the last prayer, he would have thought it was a bad dream. But here's the day they heard rumors first, and then there was the day they were formally reported by the general of the gendarmes and the leaders of the congregation. They would leave this land, where they lived for centuries, where all their ancestors were buried, tomorrow. And it was up to him to perform the final prayer in this historic mosque. He slowly got up from where he collapsed. He extinguished the candles one by one. And he went up to the altar in the flickering light of the last lamp. In the bundle, he kissed the wrapped Koran and put it over his head, and then put it into his bosom. He stepped out, locked the door twice, as usual, with a huge key under the carpet. "May God help us and our glass be in the hands of the souls of our fathers." He was lost in the darkness, with tears flowing through his eyes, with slow steps. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, our duty here, Lord Imam, has made it very clear in his last sentence. How far can we, the descendants of our ancestors, be able to protect our cultural assets that their ancestors entrusted to their souls? We need to think this through. Look, I've been saying for years that the Ministry of Culture has to build a unit to restore our architectural structures abroad, in fact, but it's not happening, it's being left to TİKA. I'm afraid this repair issue you left with TİKA does not allow proper restoration. As a matter of fact, look, Rhodes Murat Reis Külliye, the Mehmet Pasha Temple here is now devastated and no one is interested. Also, the Greeks have seized Rhodes Süleymaniye Medesesi.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0064par0048	That's not true. It's Greece.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0063par0049	Look, wait a minute, not Greece.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0064par0050	TICA, Greece...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0063par0051	I'll tell you... brother, listen, I'll tell you. I'm the one who goes and sees and knows. Don't talk, listen, then talk. The Greeks have seized it, and the University of Ege has dedicated it to their universities, even though it belongs to the Turkish foundation. We're building the Foundation Act here, and they're giving a foundation piece to their colleges. Again, the Shumnu Sheriff Halil Pasha Mosque has been renovated since 1998. It's our only work registered by UNESCO in the Balkans. However, unfortunately, the restoration is not ongoing. In the mosque of Filibe Sultan Murat, like in the house of Bursa Yıldırım, he has a chameleon inside, which, unfortunately, has been destroyed, flattened, flattened, and destroyed in the restoration by us. I mean, it's just like, you know, in the Thunder Mosque, in the Great Mosque that we all know about, you know, where that fountain was destroyed. In addition, the chassis found in Skopje's Mustafa Paşa Mosque garden was, unfortunately, restored by TİKA again, instead of being properly restored, it was modernised, destroyed. There are many such examples. As for Rhodes, look, I'll tell you -- I've been to Rhodes, I've been to Rhodes, how many times -- Rhodes, my friend, Süleymaniye Mosque -- look, now, there's Murat Pasha Ashliy. Right now, the person who takes care of him must be dead, too. But, there, believe me, it's ruined. Look, again, there are many shrines facing destruction. You say Greece, but you make all kinds of deals with Greece, but why don't you make a deal on restoration? About them, look, you've repaired 52 churches in Turkey. But, look, you've opened them up. In contrast, why don't you open the Fethiye Mosque, the one in Athens? Why don't you open one in Thessaloniki? But what do you do in return? Even though the Treaty of Lausanne is not in 1023, you are throwing a metropolitan post at Bursa. Why are you throwing it away? Can you tell us why you are making the name of the olive grove a Tirilite? Why are you throwing a Metropolitan to Isparta? Or Kütahya? According to Lauzan, you will only appoint the Metropolitan Districts of Istanbul, and you will not be able to appoint them anywhere else. When you throw these out, why don't you do this in terms of reciprocity on the equivalent of Greece? Look, I'm telling you something: through the State Department, who's researching our work there, who's restoring it, she's my wife, and I know one thing about all of it. So, look, I'm telling you, you have to understand that I'm not saying this for any political reason. What am I saying? I want the Ministry of Culture to form a unit of its own to do it seriously, build a unit to restore it abroad, do it with special status. Let a number of laws be passed, given abroad under those laws, now outside a tender system such as Turkey, and let these works be made in accordance with the original. But, look, in Ohrid, Macedonia, did the mosque of the Conqueror Mosque be destroyed by Sultan Mehmet? He's devastated. With whose permission? It was destroyed by the Ministry of Culture, and now the church is built there. Now, look, these are our mistakes, we have to accept that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0065par0057	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Especially the first part of your conversation... you shot us all in the heart, thank you, especially people like me. Thank you, thank you very much. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan... [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0066par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. You know, in our party's program, we have a sense of ownership of history, culture, and assets both in Turkey and in the world, because we have to protect such valuable artifacts, of course, that cost humanity and the common gains of humanity. When I look at this contract from here to the coalition government to the AK PARTY government, it's actually showing how informal it is to what has been done from the TİKA studies to the present, I'll tell you that. Why was he illegitimate? Think about it. It's on the World Heritage List by UNESCO in 2007. In World War II, the fascists arrived, where they fought the partisans, were damaged, and then they experienced the greatest destruction in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there are 11 eyes, and there are those who say that the work on this bridge that was built on the Drina River in 1577 was insufficient, and that the contract was ultimately required to be restored. Now, we have such a legacy of history, such a reality that UNESCO has protected, such a beautiful piece, which is very much in the region of Sinan the Architect, but you know the Drina Bridge novel -- people who are interested in literature have read -- Ivo Andric's novel, too. Now, that's very nice, folks. Well, let's take the government's sensitivity, the Ottoman love, and come from here, let's tell those who have come to claim it with nationalist feelings, and then we'll turn around like this: for God's sake, I'm calling your consciences. I speak to your consciences because do you know where the world's greatest history and culture massacre is being done in Turkey in the 21st century? It's done in Hasankeyf. The bridge in Hasankeyf will be flooded. The bridge in Hasankeyf is such a bridge that from those historic mansions of Hasankeyf, from the rocks of Hasankeyf, the planks were thrown over and over. The mosques of Hasankeyf, who are still standing today, the tribes, historical, fifteen thousand years of history, for 30 years of electrical profit, for foreign companies, and for global capital, and for the sake of global capital, what a contradiction that is, my friends. If it's about keeping track of history, you'll have to keep your own history first, and of course you'll keep the date in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But the lawmakers who won't say two words, who won't look at the lost date in front of your own eyes and say, "I'm not guilty on my conscience." From Cizre... you always talk about Cizre, don't you? Google the Bafid Bridge, let me see. You all have computers in front of you. The right side of the Tigris River is Syria, and the left side is Turkey. And when the Tigris River flows towards Syria, Pira Bafid... means Pira Bafid's bridge-Bafid Bridge. See, when the water floods, it stays by Turkey -- be careful, it stays by Turkey -- when the water dries, when it starts flowing on its left side, it stays on Syrian soil. It's in the middle, it's a wreck, and this bridge has 12 horoscopes on its feet. There's a meaning, an expression, a philosophy on the foot of a sign where the sun rises every month. If anyone doesn't know, Oğuz Khan İkçal Cizre of the AK PARTY is a subsidiary of Turkey, which can give you this vast information. No, if you find it inadequate, go to İdris Naim Şahin. No, if you find that rare, then the Deputy Minister of Interior is now undersecretary Osman Günşan. He has also been the governor of Cizre. Now, after eight years of fighting here, I decided to bring Fort Cizre to history and culture. Behold, the ruins of a great House of Bedirhan, the palace, the bath, the prison of Mem-u-Zin, which goes all the way to the Romans; how excellent it is to receive it! But look around, how many places are in the military? The castle of Hakkari is in the military. Patnos' most historic fortress is in the military regiment, my friends. How many can I count? I can tell you from here how many bridges were sacrificed at the HES dam. Do you remember Allianoi? And when ye said, O chiefs of the Aegean, Zeybek, ye did not fail in your manners. Hani Allianoi, can you tell me? Efelik is here, brother, he's here. I can play, too, sir. That's no way to go about it. You'll come and claim it here, master. We say: "Keep culture, keep history, keep art, keep wealth. " Grab him by the collar of UNESCO. Make sure UNESCO does as well. Today, in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the President is elected for six years. The Croats will be president for two years, the Serbs will be president for two years, and Bosniaks for two. We live in 20 million Kurds in this country, where we still don't speak this Kurdish language, there's no Kurdish language. If you have a sense of history, culture, language, all these things, if there is salt for Kurdistan mebus in the philosophy of this Assembly, if there is salt for Lazistan mebuses, we will own our history, our culture, both in Turkey and in the world, friends. To possess the world's heritage is to own humanity. For that reason, we make it very clear that the People's Democratic Party is the owner of history, culture, art, and art, which is the achievement of mankind. There's no point in keeping contracts like this here for years, and I don't understand why you're late. Are these your TICA guys doing other jobs, or are they abroad? Seriously, does he do other things? I think they're doing something else. Believe me, you'd better look into this. I'll remind you of one more thing. Look, when civil wars and conflicts begin, neither history listens to culture nor listens to humanity. Consider the date that was destroyed in Syria. Look at the date that was burned in Iraq; look at the mosques and mosques that ISIS burned down. Now, to take care of all this... look at the ancient sacred temples that were destroyed in Afghanistan. Of course we'll take care of them, we'll have to get out. Otherwise, ad hoc court, such as the court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is set up in a court similar to the European Court of Human Rights; in the war crimes tribunal, those who commit crimes against humanity, and those who commit genocide, will be held responsible for murdering these artifacts, and they will be questioned. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We say that we support you with these feelings, and we ask that you take a look at Turkey's conscience. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0067par0082	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0068par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party Group on the 3rd Article of the Dair Law Charter, on the 3rd Amendment, on the Computational Conspiracy of the Structural Substances in Visegrad, on the Approval Protocol of the Restoration Project and on Applying the Project. I salute lawmakers who do not owe their political careers and gains to the shadow of strong will. Dear friends, the Drina Bridge is a bridge on the caravan road between Bosnia and Istanbul, the capital of the Ottoman Empire, and has contributed to the development of villages and cities around it throughout history. So, what about the bridge? The bridge was damaged in World War II, and then repaired accordingly. Good. So, what happened next? Next thing you know, two hydro power plants were built near this bridge. Because of these two hydroelectric plants, the bottom regime of the stream has changed, and there has been serious damage at the bottom of the bridge. So the two hydroelectric plants that were built there damaged even at the base of the bridge. Doing what? By changing the root regime of the water. Now, I think that you've set foot on our rivers in Turkey, and then, oh, I wish we hadn't. We've done it wrong. Haven't the HESEs, the dams, changed the composition of the land, or changed it? The farmers here, the villagers, did they or did they not starve because of the HES dams you built? These HES dams, which rocked and destroyed even the foundations of the vast Drina Bridge, have also caused serious damage to Turkey. You have serious crimes in this regard, and the public will never forgive you. Now, my dear friends, of course we have no objection to the restoration of the so-called Mehmet Pasha Bridge. Let's do it together, but if you're going to restore this bridge like you did here in Turkey, take your hand off this bridge, for God's sake. If you're going to act like this, please don't touch it, let someone else do it. Why am I saying this? If you're going to do like the stadium that you're going to do to Mersin, which means you're going to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and then you're going to do like Arena Stadium, where you can't play a single football game after that, for God's sake, don't touch the Visegrad Bridge. If you're going to make the Visegrad bridge just like you did in the sports complex in Mersin, for God's sake, don't touch the relic. If you're going to build like a closed sports facility in Mersin, and you're going to build in every rain in a month, you're going to do a restoration, for God's sake, don't touch this bridge; let them make more decent, more honest people. Look, guys, you seem to be taking care of historical artifacts abroad, but you don't hesitate to destroy our historical artifacts at home. In the historical peninsula, in Istanbul, you destroy all of our historical monuments, especially Sultanahmet Mosque, endanger the structures here, and then you go and repair the Soklu Mehmet Pasha Bridge in Visegrad. I mean, it's a real pain in the ass. Now, the sky is breaking down because of these structures, and the Republican People's Party is turning against it with all its might. And you say, "What do we do?" I told you, they didn't. And then, instead of shaving it, you shave the law in Istanbul, instead of shaving it, without shame, and you make the structures here fit your character. Look, fellas, if you're going to sink into corruption again when you're building this bridge in Visegrad, at least don't embarrass us abroad. I'll give you some numbers: between January 1st 2002 and October 1, 2011, you did repairs and renovations at 1,330 mosques. That's not what I'm saying, it's the President of the Religious Affairs. The foundation mosque, which is the foundation of 212, is historical works, like Mehmet Pasha Bridge of Süçegrad, in Visegrad. Unfortunately, though, even in our religious works, you have caused serious allegations of corruption to arise. We thought we'd look into it. You didn't move a muscle. Look, between 2005 and 2007 alone, you've spent $1,619,681 on seven mosque repairs, and you've paid twice as much as that, so you've paid $2,821,000, which is what there are claims. We say: Look, these are serious allegations, and they really put us under the influence of Parliament. Let's set up a commission, see if there's been corruption in the mosque repair or not. Is there a click? No. Is anyone uncomfortable? No, I swear. Our research proposals are waiting for you, AKP Group, to take them off the shelf, set up a serious commission on them, and see if any corruption has been done in the repairs of our religious works, our historical artifacts. Look, I'm gonna tell you something really ironic. There is a bridge in the province of Bingol, and seven of them are under the Dam, the 300-year-old Ottoman Selenk Bridge. This seven-year-old dam and this 300-year-old historic bridge will be under your dam. In Bingol, do not, don't, don't, don't, don't do this in Seven, let's take care of this historic bridge, your hair doesn't move. In the same way, it's a strange coincidence that you're doing the Pink Dam again in Bingol, watering down two bridges, the only link point of the Sürmelikoç and Teaguzi villagers, and you're trying to invest, repair for Drina Bridge in Visegrad without looking at your body. Let's do it, let's do it, let's do it together, but first let's make it easy for our own citizens, let's keep our own historical artifacts. There are many historical buildings in Mersin. What building did you reach for God's sake in Mersin? Look, if these buildings bother you because they're the buildings of the republican era, I don't know. There's a Butcher's Market and a fish market in Mersin, and a restoration decision has been made. No one's moving a muscle, you've turned your eyes on Drina Bridge, you're trying to fix this place. Dear friends, it's very important to take care of our history, our culture. You stand up, you build a Presidential Palace to claim our history, Ottoman history, Seljuklu history. Well, look after it, but if this possession is illegal, if you're protecting our history by building an illegal palace, you're in serious error. That's not gonna happen, guys. If I'm opening up a door to corruption because I'm gonna take care of my history and my culture, I'm not okay with it. You're not welcome if you are. But unfortunately, he's a 5th fugitive. You continue to build, repair, spend money, and reside in this fugitive palace, which has been registered by the District Administration Court. And if you do that, what will the trustees do? Turkey is trying to make 15 governorates in Turkey look like him, just like you did in the illegal palace. What will the congregation do if the imam does this? Dear friends, our history, our culture is not only held by buildings. If you want to protect our history, our culture, you'll be honest, you won't lie, you won't take bribes, you won't take corruption, you won't eat slave rights, you won't benefit under the guise of religion, you'll serve the people, you'll serve the people, you'll be fair, you won't take care of men, just like we did. If you do this, you will claim both our culture and our history. Because our glorious history is filled with honesty, truth, justice, but unfortunately, in the last 12 years, all of this has been seriously destroyed, and unfortunately there have been very serious stench throughout Turkey. You're the only author of this, and you'll answer in front of history.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0069par0101	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Hakan Sargeglu, the MP of Bursa, please come in.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0070par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my person on behalf of the Dair Law Charter, that the Co-operation Protocol on the Structural Consumptions of the Structural Consumptions Bridge in Visegrad is in accordance with the implementation of the Restoration Project. I salute you all. Dear MPs, as a member of her son, the conqueror, and also as chairman of the International Friendship Group of Bosnia and Herzegovina-Turkey, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Visegrad Bridge (Visegrad Bridge), the Kurdish Mehmet Pasha Bridge, will be restored. Of course, when the Balkans say that their son is a conqueror, we remember the fortune and history of a bitter geography. 1878-1879, 93 We're talking about a region where the suffering has not stopped since the Russian War, which we call the War of War, and millions of people have flocked here and taken refuge in Turkey's main lap. Of course, the confusion here, the ethnic conflicts here, the religious, political conflicts here never ended, especially the ethnic conflicts that occurred in the region after the collapse of the Soviet bloc, even the greatest genocide since the Second World War. So we see that our relationship with the region, our friendship relationships, especially in recent years, has given us a tremendous amount of momentum, and we've been bringing up here, unfortunately, a variety of historical artifacts, our cultural heritage, in the form of a rare artifact, in the way that we've been able to resuscitate their beautiful days, since the years that we've inherited from our history. OUR TİKA (TİKA) in this regard has done some very important things. At this point, indeed, TİKA has been an institution of our country, Turkey, that has made our faces whiten in parts of the world, not just in the Balkans, but in the Middle East, in North Africa, in various parts of the world. So, even, we can classify it in various ways. You know, even though it was known by TİKA that an investment of 85 million was made in 2002, we began to pronounce investments that now reached 5 billion. So I want to say here that our relatives in the Balkans, our relatives, say that these investments at this point, these services provide self-confidence, allow them to live in peace and security in those areas, to look at future in a better and more stable way. Of course, it's expressed here from time to time that there have been some errors in the restorations of the region. In fact, a statement was made concerning Ohrid, in particular, said here, that a mosque was restored as a church in Ohri. • Friends, such a thing is not possible, such a thing is not possible, it is not true, it is not true. See, an agreement was made in Ohrid in 2000 on the restoration of the Imagination Mosque. There is a Plaosnik Church beneath this Mosque of Imagination. During this restoration, an agreement was reached on the restoration of the Plaosnik Church. Hence, the words spoken here need to be especially careful. I mean, there's a very specific need to be noticed when you say that a mosque is being built by TİKA, instead of a mosque that's being replaced by an apocalypse mosque. It can be perceived as a attitude that offends everyone. I don't think these are issues that are going to be raised in politics, which are going to be abused in politics. Look, I want to tell you something else. In 2009 or 2010 -- my memory may deceive me -- Mr. President -- our current Prime Minister -- is going to Montenegro. Montenegro heads to Tuzi, Podgorica Province. The mufti of Tuti town at that time, Rifat Feyzic -- he was here in the same way, even last week -- invited our President -- our Prime Minister at the time -- to a place where he was visiting a Turkish martyrdom, this is Nizam Mosque. They go to the mosque of Nizam, and they see that the whole place is in ruins. And he says, "Refat Feyzic: Mr. Prime Minister, exactly a hundred years ago, in 1911, the trustee committee of this mosque sent a letter to the State-i Aliyye. And after that, the Balkan Wars emerge, the communication is lost, Montenegro is out of our hands, and this mosque's demand for it is out of the question. In 1933 or 1935, the imam of this mosque was also murdered by a Croat, and the mosque was locked up, and the mosque closed. Restoring this mosque, for God's sake. And this mosque is being inaugurated on the night of Kadir, which was restored by TİKA in 2011. Do you know what the people there are calling this opening? For God's sake, let Turkey no longer wait a hundred years to answer our letters.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0070par0114	Guys, that's our point of view, that's our view of the Balkans. As the Wise King said, if we are fighting here, we are defending Istanbul. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0117	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0072par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0119	Mr. Halaçoglu, there's something. Let me finish this quickly, and we'll talk to you. Now, lawmakers, the bill is subject to an open vote... I'm going to vote on Article 3, aren't I?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0073par0122	I want word on that.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0123	I'll talk to you, there's nothing wrong. Then I get confused, one second. Look, it's complicated. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote will be carried out by electronic devices, including the drafts of the international agreements we will discuss next: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. We took a vote for all of them. I'll vote on the bill later. Mr. Halaçoglu, I understand you'll correct the information.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0074par0130	I just want to correct the information.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0131	Here you go. Yeah, well, it's not over; now we're going to fix information. Here we go. Hakan Sergeant, I'm not making you any promises. Oh, let me get this straight. Okay?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0075par0134	No, I don't have a commitment.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0071par0135	And then, as the son of the conqueror's representative sitting here, I'll start talking to him, you know, at 11:00, it'll be hard. Here we go. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0076par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear brother Hakan was born in Gümülcine. I'm already defending cultural assets there, so I'd like to see a more serious restoration.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0077par0141	We're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0076par0142	And I'm saying you can't do that with TICA. He can do well, but it's not his job, it's our Ministry of Culture's job. Let the Ministry of Culture do something about it. Mr. Hakan, you're wrong here, you're wrong. This is the photograph of the Conquest Mosque in Ohrid, and this is his old photograph, but this is where he is today. Look, I've only been there last year, and I've re-shot it, and it's the church that's built instead of the mosque.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0077par0144	When was it made?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0076par0145	The university started there after 2000 and...
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0077par0146	In 2000?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0078par0147	After 2000, Hajji?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0076par0148	Look, I didn't blame you, so I didn't accuse you of turning the mosque here into a church, I told you what our cultural heritage in Rumeliyah has become, and I said, "Let the Ministry of Culture create a special unit for him." In 1996, the decision to destroy was made, and a member of the Ministry of Culture approved it. Look, it's not the wrong thing I'm saying, it's the church that's built to replace the artifact mosque over there, and everybody who's gone has seen it, and they know it. Therefore, there is no charge against anyone here, on the contrary, that our cultural heritage, as it was in the last persecution of Karaferyah, will take care of it, says the spirits of our ancestors. And I say, "Don't wait for those souls to take over, as their grandchildren, let's take care of them." That's all there is to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0079par0151	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Now I'm going to say something, so neither this side nor this side nor this side is not guilty, but in 1996 there was Prosperity.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0080par0153	In 2000?
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0079par0154	As a representative, I'd like to talk to you about picking on me right now, and I'm going to talk to you there, one. Two, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Halaçoglu is my teacher, not to answer historical matters for the sake of God, so he knows the subject. Therefore, speak all you want on political matters, but from now on, while I'm directing, I'd like to ask Mr. Halaçoglu to speak on historical matters, please... [[Applause]] All right. Yes, now, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. We'll open the vote with the electronics. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the open vote: The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Technical, Scientific and Economic Co-operation Protocol between Turkey's Government and Turkmenistan Government. The Commission and the Government are here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 602 rows. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PROTECTION OF THE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICS AND ECONOMICS The adoption of the Technical, Scientific and Economic Co-operation Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan, signed on 1- (1) 30/5/2013. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan will speak on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0081par0179	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. In fact, I was going to have a different discussion on the matter, but I would like to share a development today in Artvin, with your grand delegation, Parliament and Turkey with the public. The point is, my dear friends were again taken into custody by a group of police officers, four of our friends, four of our friends, teachers and students, for the distribution of the declaration due to an action carried out by the United June Movement in Artvin three days ago. After that, after their testimony was taken, they were taken to the courthouse under the direction of the state's attorney, where they were held for more than four or five hours. Again, the republic was sent to arrest them for a special interest in our prosecutor, but they were released by the court as a result of a trial on the same day. I always say I believe there are still judges in this country. But at the end of the day, three days passed, and again at noon today, my dear friends, including those who participated in the previous action, which had nothing to do with anything except handing out notices; there is no resistance to police, there is no coercion, there is no molotovkotery, there is no stoning, there is no harm to public property, there is no violence to the police, as I have just told you. These young people have built a stand today, eight of them, teachers among them. And then, at noon, we got word, with a very intense intervention by the police, with an intense intervention by the police... that never happened in Artvin, my dear friends. In the history of the Artvins, they've never faced the state. I've always said this with honor and pride, but especially in the last week, after the events that took place in ten days -- in terms of the picture in Turkey -- it was necessary to reflect this painting in Artvin. My dear friends, you know, you've always said that this city, which lives on September 12, 1980, is a city of great victims. When it was September 12, 1980, I was 16 or 17 years old, my dear friends. One morning, homes were raided, people were taken into custody, Artvin's most important educational institution tried to eliminate people in Artvin Teacher's School through torture, cold water, all manner of torture. Then they took the Artvinites, and brought them to Erzurum. Three years, four years of trials took place. Before those trials, they tortured and killed people at Artvin Teacher's School again, my dear friends. One of the best - known cities is Artvin. After nearly thirty years, after a period of thirty or thirty, five years, a coup law is being created again at Artvin. It's as if Artvin would be brought to his knees by the prosecutors of this era, my dear friends, who cannot be brought to their knees by the prosecutors of September 12th. Look, the prosecutor who's doing this investigation, as I've just pointed out, has a special sensitivity to this investigation. What does that mean? It's like enemy criminal law, my dear friends. Last time the detentions took place three days ago, the prosecutor's questions were filed by lawyers. My dear friends, if the Minister of Justice were here, I'd like to give him that report. There are some dialogues between lawyers and defendants, prosecutors -- prosecutors of the Republic -- who are doing this to my dear friends -- who are getting up, who are asking lawyers or questions -- saying there's nothing there, my dear friends, there are reports, and I've heard it separately from four people -- it's not an Ataturk religion. This prosecutor has a problem with Ataturk. Look, I'm willing to argue that this prosecutor has a problem with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I've said so many times in these talks, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's Minister of Justice Mahmut Esat Bozkurt tells the prosecutors of the Republic: "We hold on to the missing plow of the Turkish village working on the coast of Meric, and we hold on to the eye of the orphans who are waiting for alimony in the desert of the mountains of Bingol," says the prosecutors of Justice of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. But at this point, we cannot accept this detention today, especially in Artvin, and the use of force and violence in this custody, and the use of excessive force by the police. So someone here is trying to bring the government against the nation, especially by changing the way they live in Artvin, the social structure, and no Artvinian is going to be in this game, and I want to express it first. Look, my dear friends, when there's a trial, when there's an investigation, or when there's a prosecution, it's a public trial, people go, they follow it. I just got off the phone with him before I got here, because Artvin's Courthouse was blockaded -- it was the same in the nine-period act -- and he's not allowed to go in there in any way. On September 12th, enemy criminal law is being enforced, my dear friends, and we cannot possibly accept it. Why can't we accept it? My dear friends, in countries ruled by democracy, in countries dominated by law, in countries where EU norms are based on them, the state of law is the exception of the police state. But at this point, when people are faced with this kind of practice, when people are asserting their claims about themselves within the framework of the democratic state of law, within the framework of the law, the press statement is never, never, never, ever accept the suppression of actions that can be handled within the scope of freedom of expression, without any difficulty or use of violence. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'm trying to express this action from here, and there are public officials behind this act looking for a legal basis, and I'm telling them from here: no matter who, no matter what position, this power wind will blow one day, my dear friends. I'm also speaking to that D.A., and to the public officials there, and I'm wondering how that wind will turn over for you when this wind blows. My advice to them is that they do their rules, their duties within the legal framework, we don't say anything to him, but they do the Republic's prosecution, they don't do the State's Attorney's Office. As I've just said, the Justice Department prosecutors of Ataturk have known what to do, not for all the present prosecutors, but for some of them, trying to do the prosecution's job in a more royal structure than the king, and the public officials are trying to do it. I'm also speaking to the new commissioner who's been transferred to Artvin, and I've just expressed -- I believe the Director is well-intentioned, and I spoke to him before he arrived. I also address the governor, and I address the public officials: please, be more sensitive about this, I want to believe you'll be sensitive, never forget that you're officials of the state. Look, don't confuse Artvin with other places, you can predict a picture that can be faced with the government elsewhere, but Artvin doesn't have a painting like this, my dear friends. Today, on Artvin's street, on Artvin's street, on the street of Artvin, on the force of force, there may have been no such incident in 30 years, perhaps, for the first time. They just sent it to me with the photos, and I'm surprised, my dear friends, I'm surprised; there's no such thing. People are doing an act, and if you believe it's against the law, you can invite people to the police station without using force, you can invite them to the courthouse, but the point is, they have 18, 20-year-old children in them, they have their mother, they have their father; in desperation, they're calling me on the phone. What's this? Even on September 12th, we did not experience such a painting. My dear friends. As I've just said, Artvin is one of the most damaged cities from the September 12 coup. We've suffered some real damage. People gave funerals, paid the price for their lives, lost their jobs, were banished. You know how you always say you're on the side of the blows? If you were with us on September 12th, you'd see what the coup was like. So, what I'm going to see here next week is that this famous law of security that we're going to see, before we go into effect, before there's an application called execution, you know, you know, you're a congressman, you're doing a commercial break, you're doing a test on what kind of application we're going to be dealing with, my dear friends, and we can't possibly accept that. Because we have expressed our concerns about how the search will be in the arrangements you bring in, how the privacy of private life will be violated, without a court order related to one person, without a document issued by the state's attorney's office, before the law can be passed, before the law is passed, my dear friends, when I mention this by the law, it's not the legal law, it's not the law, it's not the law, it's not the law, it's not the law, it's not the law, it's not the law. This law comes out in a sense that our concerns are right in the face of these events that we experienced before we were prepared. Dear MPs, look, I'd like to point out once again that the ministers are here, and I know it's not in the Minister's interest, but I would like to address the Minister of the Interior here as well: If there are arrests after this hour, there are legal dimensions, I believe there won't be such an incident, because there's been a release three days ago, but if there's only one person in Artvin. I add that you will not be able to handle this, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0082par0196	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0083par0200	Thank you, Mr. President, no one should say in solidarity. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0082par0202	Teach law goes on, my dear.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0083par0203	Thank you, thank you. Dear friends, Turkmenistan is, of course, a land of our ancestors in Central Asia. I've got my buddy, he's still there, he's still got his aunt's gift, and we're from the same thing that carries our family name there, because I was also given a passport in Turkmenistan, along with citizenship. I would like to point out in particular that one of the countries that I frequented during my term as President of the Historical Society is Turkmenistan. There's a pattern that's been carried out by an extremely intelligent thought that the Soviet trail is completely wiped out. They also have a system that is highly traditional, which collects the convention and makes it a law by making decisions in that convention, as well as in their clothes, customs, and even in our old Turks. I, of course, want to talk about something beyond that. Now, Turkmenistan doesn't have a very large population, it has a population of 4.5 million or 5 million, but in terms of natural gas, the richest country in the world, even a few years ago, a new gas stove opened up in wealth that would meet Turkey and Turkmenistan's uninterrupted 70 years ago. As a matter of fact, the Turkmen people use all natural gas for free, and they don't put out natural gas in the summer to save matches. So they have this kind of opportunity. There's free electricity, free phone, free public service on many such matters. Now, as in oil, when you fill up those vehicles, you fill them up for a dollar, and that's it. So, it's a country like this. It's a very modernized, new developmental activity that you can call Alice Wonderland, the capital. But, I'd like to talk a lot about this: our old Merv city is one of the cities where the Turks weigh the most in science. You know, there was the tomb of Sultan Senser, the shrine. In 2000, the tender was made, I believe, in 2003 or 2004, when you were in power, it was inaugurated by Sultan Senser Temple. There's another important figure here. One of the most important elements of our life on this land today is the tomb of Sultan Alparslan, in the city of Merv. His father, Mr. Caller, is also there. But, Sultan Alparslan, you know, after he was killed by Black Joseph, he was brought to the city of Merv, and when he died there, he was buried next to his father's grave. Today Ismet Yilmaz Bey, our Minister of Defense, was then Undersecretary of Culture, we went with him, we located his grave to a certain extent. Today that burial site is being investigated by TİKA. But, strangely, even though I make a lot of statements, they tell me, "Just tell me where it is." And I say, "Scientific morality is not the answer to such a question. Here's what we'll do: you come along and we'll look into it together. Because, you know, when a person makes a determination about something, they don't jump in and sell it to someone else. I repeat, we went to Ismet Bey, we did a lot of research there, we interviewed the necessary people, and the location is at least 90 percent located. So, as Sultan Alparslan's tomb will be discovered, so will his father, Mr. Caller Bey. This is very important to Turkey, to us. As a matter of fact, the vice president of cultural affairs was a lady, and in our meeting with him, I said that if it weren't for Sultan Alparslan, we would be living here with you. He even told me: "The Russians have searched, and they have not found it. How will you find them? I said they are Russians, and we are Turks. There's been a conversation like that. I would like to make this very clear, and I would like to make it very clear that this must be dealt with seriously, without being drawn into the political zone immediately, and that Sultan Alparslan's tomb must be discovered. Which, unfortunately, we made a mistake in natural gas, you know. I believe there was Cumhur Ersumer at the time, when the Turkmen's head offered them 47 dollars for natural gas, but ours did not approach it with a number of issues such as Blue Stream Vesair, and natural gas could not be transferred from Turkmenistan to Turkey. Now, I'd also like to say, look, I just mentioned the Balkans. Dear MPs, to tell you how insensitive we are, there's the Temple of Moses in Thessaloniki, there's the Temple of Tempi Hassan in Yenişehir, which is very bad to be destroyed, and I have pictures of them, one by one, just taken. Again, we just talked about the Ohrid Conqueror Mosque of Macedonia, but worst of all, the Narda Faik Pasha Mosque was unfortunately used as a brothel. He's been evacuated and devastated. Look, in return, I think it's up to us to rebuild them, to rebuild them. Also, the Mosque of Solomonia in Gum. Look at it this way. It's pathetic. Cami, okay, the minaret is broken, the church is built, the bell is stuck. You know, you can only accept that for so long. I mean, one place of worship has been converted to another. We build mosques in churches. This can be met at a certain rate, of course, but on the downside, Bulgaria's Filibe Sunday Mosque is in a sad state. The mosque, as you can see, its dome is filled with obscene images and is used in the form of a tavern, in the form of a restaurant... Now, we can't possibly accept that. I mean, you have to respect a religion, whatever religion you're from, you have to respect their places of worship. Unfortunately, as we can't see that respect here, he's in a very bad position. Again, in Drama, there is the Mosque of Thunder Whiteitan. In the same way, when two bell towers are built, it's converted into a church, but when the church is built... look, at least we don't break the architecture of the mosques, but they don't leave the architecture, they tear it all down and change its architectural style, so they're desecrating culture. This needs to be stopped. Again, it is very painful, and the Sadrazam Ibrahim Pasha Mosque in Kavala is in the same situation, and so is the prayer center in Karaferye, which has been put in the form of Saint Paul's subsidiary. Again, the White Sea Father's Temple in Hairyce... is now, I mean, at least, the shrine has been converted into a church when they should respect a person's shrine. I mean, we have to consider these things now. I want to tell you why they did it, why they did it, beyond the fact that it's all about whether or not to take care of it. In order to avoid such incidents, we sign cultural agreements with them on what kind of architectural structures, cultural assets the state of the Republic of Turkey left in these ancestral regions. Shouldn't these be evaluated? You have to evaluate them. Look, this mission belongs to our Ministry of Culture. Some of the issues related to mosques, you know, are run by the General Directorate of Foundations, but to ensure that there's no conflict between the General Directorate of Foundations and the Ministry of Culture, so you've looked at the mosque, as you've looked at civilian architecture, and it's inevitable, it's inevitable, let's give all the support we need, let's form a separate unit in the Ministry of Culture. Let's give a special status task to restore cultural assets abroad, and put together a team here that knows the true aspects of these artifacts, knows their architecture, and prevents them from being wrong, and let our Ministry of Culture do it. In the same way, look, when we were at the Historical Society, we started to inventory all of our cultural assets in the Balkans and in the Middle East, in Africa and Asia, including India, but after I left, the inventory stopped. It was one of the most important things to do. Look, we're talking about Greece, we just talked about it. We've got more architecture than you'd expect, we've got culture, we've got faith. That's true of other geography, as well as Balkan geography, but it's one of the most troubling places we've ever been in the Balkans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Leave our work aside, believe it or not, all our graveyards are being put into parks and destroyed. I'm presenting these to you for your information. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0084par0221	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Demir Çelik. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0085par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of my fellow lawmakers and party, I salute you with respect. We will discuss together the bill on the signing of a contract on Turkey's agricultural, technical, scientific and economic relations with Turkmenistan. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a necessary reason for historical relations from country to nation, nation to nation, person to person in the globalized and globalized world of today. It's a new relationship that has also been revealed by revolutionary breakthroughs in the technological and scientific field. Without this relationship, neither a country nor a nation is possible to survive. Therefore, we, who defend international relations, of course, have to have the philosophy, the mentality, the understanding, of living together in peace, not the hatred of religions and peoples, based on the reconciliation and partnership of civilizations rather than the conflict of civilizations. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, despite the desired and desired desire for international relations, relationships are based on profit, hierarchical, without democraticity, causing hegemonic forces to be macheted, to grow, but to lose the self-power and needs of society. See, that's the thing to be careful about. Turkey is now in 20 developed countries with the synergy of international relations. However, when we take a large picture of Turkey despite its development, 7 million people still have to live on a minimum wage of 949 TL ($949) under the 1,250 TL), which is still called the hunger limit. 13 million people of our country, in 20 developed countries, face the condition of maintaining a life below the age of starvation. With the poverty limit at $4,000, over 25 million people, especially our pensioners, have been exposed to living conditions below the poverty line. So relationships are growing the state, causing the state and power to grow, multiplying, but society is facing poverty, hunger, poverty, and in that sense, its will is needed to be bought. In the polls, people are left hungry, poor, and destitute as a way of drawing up votes, as a way of getting wills in the polls, and their will is being swayed by social welfare policies. Its name is not fucking democracy, its name is not that it acts with the awareness of the fulfillment of human conscience; rather, knowingly and willingly, the powers and governments leave the community poor, making it needy, trying to consolidate its own power over its guardianship. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the ruling, statesman mentality that exhibits such a theatre, of course, can't bring the peace, democracy and freedoms that society needs. Democracy, peace and freedom, power, the state is incompatible, conflicting, conflicting. Where there's freedom, there's no sovereignty of power. In that sense, yes, there are three basic parameters for approaching political and social events on the world and the earth. First, as the United States of America has done with security understanding, it is to break and surrender with military operations. Adeta is similar to what he did in Afghanistan and the Middle East in the second Gulf War, which he did today in Rojava, Syria, Iraq. Second: The axisd approach of the Council of the European Union, where everything based on dialogue and negotiation is discussed, discussed, shared, and shared, which is that because the United States of America cannot save itself from the shadow of the United States, the slaughter of the peoples continues in the process of social, political destruction, ecological destruction. Third: the axis of peace and freedom for all out-of-state, impotent, oppressed, victims, state-owned, ruling systems, all the poor, laborers, the peoples, the peoples, which gives everyone and everyone else the solution. Sadly, those who stand behind the demand of this solution, who insist on this solution, have faced the situation of being disciplined by war, poverty, hunger, and misery, so that there is no basis for a fundamental solution that is very prominent on earth and in jihad. I say and hope that there is a world, a future, a world where the oppressed and the victims, the oppressed, the poor, the ruling, the statesmen, can live in peace with the law of brotherhood, despite the systems. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in that sense, I think a new life is possible, another world is possible. Humanity, without state and power for millions of years, has ruled itself democratically, economically, ecologically, without a hierarchical relationship of state and power, and may, of course, rule itself again at the side of the state, despite the state. Therefore, with our democratic autonomy political project, Turkey's transformation of political regional governments to democratic republics around 25-26, we can resolve the Kurdish problem, the Alevi problem, the relations between the centre and the environment, the contradictions, conflicts, conflicts with the democratic republic that we haven't solved in a hundred years. In this sense, democratic autonomy is a project for the benefit of every community, which is too far from being reduced to ethnic identity alone, to the geographical border. Turkey's Çoruhu, Çirımak, Yızırmak, Sakaryak, Sakarya, Medenres (Meric), Ceyhan (Seyhan), Seyhan (Seyhan), Dicle (Sehan), Fırat (We are not growing) -- Van Lake, Salt Lake, Lake of Lakes, Lake of Lakes, Lakes, and we can make a new society, a cultural, historical heritage of thousands of years of ancient civilisations, based on the fact that it is the common heritage of mankind, and that we can act with regional governments, in centrally, in finance, in centrally, in the defense of the public system, with a fair society, with a society, with a society of freedom, with a new society; it is possible; it is possible; it is possible; it is possible. But when we insist on unresolvedness and will-breakers, past governments that aligned society with denial and destruction, when we insist on mistakes like the failures of the authorities, we are faced with either a coup mechanism or a risk of division and danger. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the world's reformation, the Middle East, the re-designed Middle East, a part of the devoid of social dynamics that have been re-created in the world of today's world, where nothing can be hidden as it was before, that everything can no longer be hidden, that everything is based on magnificence, that the salvation of labor will be linked to social salvation, that social liberation is passed by women's freedom, that a new world is possible, that there is a new world, that is a democratic, ecological, freedom of women, that can be held in fact, that there is a real reality, that there is a self-absorbed, that there is a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that can no longer a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that is a world that can be used to be used to be used to be built up in order to be used to be used to be built up in order to be used to be built up in order to be built into the world, and to be free to be free to be free and free to be free to be free society. It's possible, and without delaying it, I'd like to honor our efforts, our efforts, our efforts, our new social and political values, our hope of meeting the bright Turkey of the future, the democratic republic in which we will live together in peace in the democratic, common country of the future.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0086par0238	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. The first word for individuals on the subject is from Mr. Reşat MP. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0087par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to talks on ratification of an international agreement on the sister state Turkmenistan. I salute the High Council. Of course, it is not possible to pass without the mention of the late Turkmenbaş. The late Turkmen's head was always a nation of two states. He was a man who spoke his word and stood behind him, and I remember him with mercy and gratitude. Of course, I would like to wish that this agreement would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to both states, and to bring in different agreements in this way from now on. Honourable lawmakers, the 1990s, of course, have been in the Turkish world for years. In the 1990s, the Soviet Union suddenly broke up, and then independent Turkish states emerged, one of which was Turkmenistan. From the time Turkmenistan gained its independence, it became a shining star in Central Asia, and by creating really significant improvements from the national revenue point to the other parts of the city of Ashqabat, there have been huge improvements, and we are now saying that it is in countries in that region that have a major balance element. Of course, there seems to be significant improvements in all these states, especially when we consider other Turkish states as such. Of course, as Turkey, it is imperative that they all continue to be independent and that independence will continue to grow and grow and strengthen. At this point, we are obliged to maintain any relationship with these countries in the 1990s, as we did in the following period. In addition, many of these countries now have serious problems. Look, in the coming days, on February 26th, we'll all remember the teacher massacre together. Currently, most of the land of Azerbaijan's state, a third of its territory, unfortunately, is occupied by Armenia. The Hodja massacre was carried out in 1992 by the Armenians on a night that marked the February 25th to February 26th, where a total of 613 people, 83 children, 106 women, and more than 70. This massacre is a genocide, so the people who lived there were all slaughtered in the wake of the Armenian attacks. Here, even later, we see that in the autopsies on our murdered, martyred brothers, people's bodies were burned, their eyes were gouged out, and they were massacred in a heavy way that mankind couldn't accept. Here, we all have very different assignments here. The teaching massacre must be told all over the world. These are the heads of state of Armenia, the Speakers of Parliament, here, from Sarkisyan to the others. But it's true that nothing has been done about these things, especially in all the states in the world, including NGOs in the world. So, as the state of the Republic of Turkey, we have a very serious mandate here. We can't remain silent, irresponsible, like any other government. So, if there's an invasion there, if one-third of Azerbaijan's territory is occupied, over a million Turkish Azerbaijans living in that area, if our brothers have migrated to other regions, if they've fled, it's up to us to defend their rights, as they call them. I mean, it's imperative that we don't let the world forget about the 1992 teacher massacre and that their perpetrators be punished for sure and certain. Honourable MPs, is that all? No. See, the Turks of Ahýska are one of the groups that were forced to emigrate during Stalin's period in 1948. The same has happened to the Crimean Turks, but while the Crimean Turks have been able to return to their territory at least a little bit, we also see that the Ahıska Turks have not returned. Right now, the Turks of Ahiska must return to the Ahiska region, where the Turks have their own home, home country. In that sense, the state of the Republic of Turkey is sadly insensitive again. He also sees that some very serious work has not been done on regression. In this way, the return of nearly 5,000 families was provided to the Crimean Turks by TİKA. I think it would have been different if we'd given the same painting to the Turks of Ahýska. In addition, in Eastern Turkistan, Syria, Iraq, we see that Turkish people were seriously victimised in those areas, along with the attack of ISIS's terrorist organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, if that's the case, it says that the Republic of Turkey is in charge here, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0088par0261	Thank you. Mr. Haydar Akar, you're on your way.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0089par0264	Mr. President, members of the lawmakers, yes, we discussed the Agriculture Bank yesterday at the CIT Commission, the Commission for Public Economic Responsibility. We discussed the report by the Court of Agriculture Bank in 2012. I'm not going to talk about the unsecured loan that the Agriculture Bank gave to the pool media in 2014. We've made a determination about the Agriculture Bank there, along with our friends at the ruling party, our friends in the opposition. And it was in the court reports in the 2012 report. What was that? The number of banks, including the Bank of Agriculture, has increased by 400 per cent in 2012, and the cases they have lost are close to that. These cases are all about these loans. What loans? They've lost cases related to individual loans, housing loans, car loans, individual consumer loans. Which has to do with the Supreme Court's decision. And what's the citizen doing? He's going straight to the banks, he's applying to the courts, and these courts usually end up in favor of the citizen. And that's when the bank's costs went up more. I mean, it's just that, you know, it's like, there's no expense to the citizens that they're paying for, you know, it's like a contract, and it's a huge amount of money that they're paying for from the citizens, and they're starting to get citizens by court order. He doesn't just charge, what does he get? And he gets his lawyer's fee. What's he paying for? The banks are paying for the court. In fact, while doing so, the banks began to cause great damage, workloads, and financial losses. When we asked the Director General of Agriculture, Mr. General Manager, why do you keep taking these expenses? When we said: "We have decided as a bank, we will no longer take these expenses," he said. Two: ▪ We will pay for the expenses taken earlier if the citizen appeals to us before he goes to court. Now, this is a good thing, actually, for citizens, it's really good news. But it continued today, we said it shouldn't only be limited to the Bank of Agriculture, and today the Bank of Banks has made a statement saying that this will not only be limited to the Bank of Agriculture, that other banks will do the same thing, and that, of course, it will say something else in their statements, that if the citizens go to the branches, a branch official will be waiting for them, an officer or an officer, and will meet the demands of the citizens before they go to court, he said. Now I'm calling to the banks from here: citizens will start applying to branches, banks from tomorrow because this news has been publicized, and when it's shared, citizens will postpone the trial process for a while, and they won't be doing it for a while. Because -- you know -- the brokers have evolved, so we're all getting SMS messages, if you've used loans from banks, we're taking your expenses back. There are people who are making money from this job, and really, even though a citizen can actually get some of it as a refund, these brokers and the people who follow it are starting to win. The banks said stop because they themselves were victims, and when they stop, they say: "Let them go and find the bank official. " Now, I want to call out here, and that's not just saying that, as of tomorrow, when a citizen goes to the bank, he's got to meet an officer who's really going to sort this out, meet an officer, meet an officer. I believe there should be an sanction if the banks try to delay this a little bit, to reverse these demands. It's really in the best interests of the citizen. Our Bayburt MP friend has had a very valuable contribution to the CIT Commission, along with other members of the CIT Commission. And I think it's a happy business for the citizens to have the head of the Bank of Agriculture agreeing that this is really how it should be done, and to have the banks aligned. From now on, I hope to say that the citizens, who live under difficult circumstances, who are forced by the government to take credit from banks because of the economic policies they already live under, will have to do what they have to do to make sure that the citizens do not become victims, and I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0090par0271	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you two minutes for an open vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the clear vote of the bill: The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks by the Turkish Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization's European Regional Office, drafting and Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 8th ranking position, confirming a Two-year Co-operation Agreement 2010/2011. No commission. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Belgian Kingdom with the Foreign Commission's Charter on Approvement of Agreement That Compromises Certain Accords of the Diplomacy and Consuller Staff in A Profitable Work. The Commission and the Government are here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 281 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill on behalf of groups. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Haluk Ahmet Güverm. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0091par0289	Dear members, the structural crisis of the global economy continues. Since 2008, deflation in developed countries has been accompanied by long recession and even crises. This depression does not affect all regions around the world at the same rate and violence. The international balance of power tends to change unusually. The ability or power of great powers to change the world seems to have changed and entered the process of regression. Even in developed countries, increased revenue gaps among social classes wear down the understanding of liberal economics, while conditions prepare the basis for strengthening the right and left ends of the world's political spectrum. When we add increasing competition over regional wars and global resources to all of this chaos, it seems that world peace or present balances are not pleasant at all. Dear friends, this image shows that a reality is a fundamental change in the world, change is happening in the world, not in the country, but in the world. One of the main goals of this change is the reality that until now, the world's geography will be distributed by the world's focus on Western power. Part of this expectation in the major reports of developed countries is still being fulfilled. IMF President Lagarde made the announcement four months ago. According to Lagarde (IMF) acquisition parity, China has passed the United States. In recent years, Western future forecasts predicted that economic growth in Southeast Asia would exceed the US economy in 15 years. New data, however, shows that the expected economic data for 15 years later has already happened today. So why were these numbers shown in the past that affected all of us deeply? When these numbers went black, what did we not see? Some economists say that the low view of Chinese national income figures is in the interest of both the United States and China as of today. The U.S. seemed pleased that its leadership, powered by technology and weapons, gave the same image in the economic field. China, however, did not want to be burdened with economic leadership and the obligations of this leadership before it had yet resolved internal immigration problems, before it reached a higher level of technology and weapons power. All he wanted was to be able to provide the energy and raw materials that China needed to grow by taking advantage of free trade and the current global system, to slowly feel its weight in the world, and to implement its own plan without any hurry. Now, I want to point out: if the views that China's economy has passed the U.S. economy are true -- Lagarde said it is true -- since the Chinese economy has continued a growth trend of 7.5-10 percent, we will face eight years, seven years, maybe nine years -- in the 2020s, with nearly twice the economic size of the United States in Southeast Asia. If this happens, it will have consequences that will affect the entire global system radically. In fact, the preparations that are already made without understanding and unpronounced numbers are really relevant to the situation of the great country. What kind of landscape are we facing in the world if the global heavyweight centre is happening in the new light of reality, not 15 years later, but 20 years later, when it is happening? What's going on today? Let us consider the progress that we are experiencing today under that assumption. Because it is understood that the balance of power is really different from what we're told, and supers are developing policy based on this new situation, and maybe we don't know a lot of that. Is the creation of Russia and the United States of Syria's negotiating ground because Russia is growing anxious about the border between Central Asia and China-Russia? Another thing: Up until six or seven years ago, in the press, at universities, the nation's state was over. Why do we no longer see the expression as common today? Is it because the return to the multipolar world is abandoned by the monopolar world? Is that why the need for advanced countries to grow again in the Middle East to have great and powerful allies? How will this affect our country? Are there preparations for a new race of power in North Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean, known as the Arab Spring, behind the outside interference of US leadership with soft force? Yes, you do. Is it the beginning of the construction of a new common market in the Mediterranean with Arab Spring, integrated in the West, democratically governed and alternative allies to Southeast Asia? It's probably an issue. Is the Mediterranean region redesigned to balance Far East while the Silk Road is being rebuilt, just as in history? What is it that has been supported as it comes to power, and what seems to be behind the AKP government today, that drives the Western power to make this decision; is it the changes that exist, or is it the completion of the government as everything else is used? Is this new reality responsible for the dissolution of the Soviets and the dissolution of the moderate Islamic Project, which was targeted during the single polar world, the dissolution of the multipolar world and the change of the Eurasia-Middle Eastern plans? Is the decision of the United States to draw forces from the Middle East to the Chinese geography a radical policy change against China, which has been economically strengthened but has not yet expanded its military power? What will come after that? Is it possible that the United States-AB and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which is currently being held, is the main reason why China has gained time to prepare for the Western position by maintaining its strong position for a while? What is the connection between this agreement and the FED decision that will cause an earthquake in the world? Is this part of a big new plan? In Central Asia and Central Asia, do Chinese targets have the potential to develop Russian-US-Turkey relations? What is the connection between this fact and the statement of Central Asia, the Balkans of the future? What is the cause of the world's growing interest in the problems of Uygur Turks that no one has ever cared about? No one has been interested in it in the past. Why has the AKP government been avoiding the Uygur issue in recent years? Before, he had words, he had sensitivity, and now don't let China get angry. Is this getting away from the U.S. and EU policy? The most important problem is, how can the unprecedented growth rates of the Chinese economy be balanced? If China's growth is not balanced, will world peace be threatened? Will FED decisions have a balancing effect on the growth rate of developing countries, and are there preparations for that? What will be the way out of countries that cannot make a potential Chinese market like Turkey, with an extraordinarily large foreign trade deficit with China? In the near future, what measures will China's leadership impose on those who have developed them in our geography and in the world? If the government does not think and find the answers to these questions, they will suffer more. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit02spe0092par0301	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. DIPLOMATICS AND CONTINUES OF PRACTIVATE PROCESSIONALS OF THE PRIVATE PRODUCTION OF PRIVATE PRODUCTION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey signed in İstanbul on October 31, 2008 and the Agreement establishing the possible work of diplomatic and consulry personnel within the Kingdom of Belgium. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-02-12sit03spe0092par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the open vote of the entire Law Bill 281 rows, the meeting was not enough. Now we're going to repeat the open vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Since the second open vote did not find enough meetings, the decision was made to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them on Tuesday (February 17th 2015), according to law and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good weekend.
