tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora Özakça who wants to talk about the problems of Mardin province. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the problems of Mardin province. I salute the General Assembly. Mardin is one of our world-renowned cities with architectural, archeological, historical and visual qualities. Different beliefs and cultures are the wealth of this country. Mardin is a model for Turkey in that sense. In Mardin, where the languages of Kurdish, Syrian, Turkish and Arabic are spoken, Serbians, Kurds, Turks and Arabs, Mahalmis live in peace. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mardin is in a position he doesn't deserve, despite the wealth we've stated. In particular, problems in education, health care, transport, infrastructure, water, electricity, and distorted urbanization remain unresolved. We all know that blackouts of electricity and water in Mardin continue to happen a lot. Especially in the summer, electricity shortages in many villages and towns in Mardin and districts, where the temperature is 45 degrees Celsius, often bring our citizens to the point of rebellion. In particular, our people living in villages are victimized in many areas, both in agricultural and everyday life. Farmers complain that their crops are dry due to power shortages because they are often irrigated by electrical irrigation systems. Many of the fields are damaged due to water shortages due to power shortages. Electricity blackouts have become natural, especially in the seasons, in the winds, and in the winter months. It is also known that hundreds of villages were not powered in the region during winter. The power lines across the region are thirty-forty years old. These lines serve with maintenance and repair. The lack of additional transformers for lower transformers and new settlements reduces the quality of electricity and cuts increase. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have caused major problems in many areas, as government officials have said, built on the Rivers of Fırat and Tigris, an international stream under the GAP Project, which is supposed to bring civilization to Mesopotamian territory in different dimensions, including Mardin. In this context, the GAP project, in its proper terms, is a complete failure. The foreseen electricity production can't meet the need for electricity, not even for Mardin alone, from the cities within the project. Dear lawmakers, economic indicators regarding Mardin also reveal the promise. According to official data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, Mardin's share of the illegal national product was 10.39 per cent in 1965, and it is seen to have dropped by 7 per cent today. The weight of the young population in Mardin province is remarkable. 58 per cent of the city's population is under 25 years old. However, Mardin, like the other four counties in the region, is leading unemployment. According to TÜİK data, Mardin is among the top five cities in Turkey where unemployment rates are the highest. According to TÜİK data, Mardin is among the first five districts where employment is lowest in Turkey. Bizatihi, these two data are the clearest proof of how much the previous governments and the 13-year AKP government neglected Mardin and Mardinns. Dear MPs, Mardin is among the most emigrating cities again. The high immigration rate of a province is one of the key indicators that there is no satisfaction in life in that province. On the other hand, Mardin is one of the rare areas that attract archaeologists. Dara, for example, is a region with wonderful qualities, both historically and cultural tourism, such as the underground city. However, the Ministry of Culture does not allocate funds for excavations in this region, Dara is leaving her ancient city to its destiny. Again, I find it helpful to repeat a problem concerning Kızıltepe district of Mardin. Kızıltepe has been punished by the National Ministry of Education, and has been removed from the list of test centers. Thus, our students from the Kızıltepe are forced to travel to other provinces to take a test. Of course, the problems of Mardin, which I'm trying to make clear in this short speech, are not limited. I invite the government to stop neglecting Mardin, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ardahan (Ardahan) MP Ensar Öğüğüt (Ardahan) who wants an airport and talks about state institutions. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a promise to Ardahan to build an airport and to shut down state institutions. I salute you all. Dear friends, on the border of Ardahan, Georgia and Armenia, we are a very large, poor, young, unemployed province. When we looked at history, this province was given to the Russians as a war compensation for Turkey's guarantee, which is Turkey's guarantor, and was given to Russia as a war compensation for nearly forty-three years, under enemy occupation. In such a province, an airport must be built in a strategic area in the border district. Why? For businessmen in the world and Turkey to be able to come and go. You know, they're flying planes, no one's taking the road. For him, if the airport opens, a portion of Georgia, Armenia, and Artvin will benefit from it, a portion of Erzurum, and a portion of Kars. In this sense, an airport must be set up in Ardahan. The Ardahan Chamber of Commerce and all NGOs, all journalists, all Ardahans have launched a campaign, which will set up an airport in Ardahan. In that sense, if Ardahan is not set up at this airport, we will start the hunger strike if necessary, if necessary, march from Ardahan with bare feet from Ardahan to Ankara. Why? The airport is being built. Do you know where Rize is being done? The airport is being built by filling the sea. Let it be done, we're not against it, I send my regards to the Rizeli from here, I love it, but it's closer to Rizzon Airport. The airport was built, so that it would be Rize, Artvin, and that's true, it should be done to Rize, but I'm not against it, but if there's a large cost to Rize, and if there's an airport being built to fill the sea, the costs are lower to us. We also donate our land to the government when the airport is built in Ardahan Plain, which is very close to Ardahan. So without charge, we donate to the state without publicisation, and we express our demand for the establishment of the airport to Ardahan, but here I am asking the Grand National Assembly, I am asking the government, Mr. Secretary of State, our minister in charge of development, Cevdet Bey, I request that you take Ardahan to the program, open an airport for Ardahan. If we open an airport in Ardahan, there will be no more migration in Ardahan, no more poverty, no more investment. Now, go crazy, the Whitestone Gate is opening. The Posof tunnel will be built. When he starts, when Kars-Tiflis is together through iron, it's also going to be an international airport. In that sense, if this airport isn't built... honestly, we're not against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it, we're against it... but Ardahan's important, it's important. Its development, its development, its development, has to have an airport absolutely. Dear friends, when we came to the institutions, the court was shut down in Madness. Today, a madman comes to the court to file a petition, all the way to Ardahan. I mean, the roads are closed, sometimes it's winter, he's got a type, he can't go at all. In the summer, he couldn't leave his field, his meadow, and travel 170 kilometers. I mean, there's such cruelty. I mean, we're on the border in Armenia, waiting for the flag. So, how do you guys close our courthouse? We don't have hospitals, so we really don't have hospitals. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'm saying something now. It's the shame of the state; it's the shame of the AKP. In Posof, people can't get their teeth pulled, no dentists. Do you know where they're going? People in Posof are going to Georgia to get their teeth pulled out, and they're getting their teeth pulled out in Georgia, friends. There can be such cruelty. This is the disgrace of the AKP, the shame of the AKP government.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0005par0034	We built a hospital in Ardahan. There's a full hospital in Ardahan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0004par0035	There are no hospitals in Posof. People are going to Georgia to get their teeth pulled. The shame is more than enough for you. That's a shame, guys. We want the forest business in the lake to come back, and we want the military in the lake to come back. To win the lake, to improve, the military must be there. The Damalites made their own troops, and the army was shut down in Damal. The same must be done in Hanak. The same must be done in Damal. It's done in Posof, and Damal and Hanak will have to attend an absolute institute of higher education. In that sense, I look forward to your support, all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ, who asked for a comment on the anniversary of the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, former Chairman of the Party of the Great Unity. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, I have been promised the 6th anniversary of the 6th anniversary of the march of the late Mohsin Yazbioğlu to Hakk, who was born as the son of a black-tailed farmer in the village of Elmalı, Sivas. It's been six years since Muhsin Yazıoğlu lost his life, but he is one of the important things on our agenda as if he were alive. It's because of the deep scars he left in our political lives. Even if loved ones leave us in the flesh, they continue to live in the hearts with their memories. Yazıoğlu was one of those people, but it is not just a matter of loving explanation that he is still living in the hearts today. His personality, his style, his struggle, his morality, and his courage were so great that if he had been among us in every historic corner today, he would be in charge of his search. That's another indication of how deep he's left. Those who crossed paths with him have always seen a loyal, patient, sincere, discreet boy. Even in the stormy years of violence and anarchy on the streets, Muhsin Yazıoğlu is a man who remains calm and discreet, who always protects the oppressed and stands beside him. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers; Mohsin Yazıoğlu would not hesitate to say that he knew the truth; he would not look at the identity of the person who told the truth; he would support whoever told the truth; he would not see politics as a purpose; he would see it as an instrument of serving his beliefs, his country and his nation; he was a man of principle, willing to give his head rather than to compromise his ideals. In the 1991 elections, when Sivas was running for MP, the slogan was "O" to carry your beliefs to Parliament. He's been following that slogan his whole life, and he's been the voice of the oppressed, the oppressed, the people of Asia Minor. Dear lawmakers, it is not easy to use both a vertebrate language and a peaceful language. Casemen usually have a sharp tongue. Yazrioğlu had succeeded in becoming one of the rare cases and lovers of the two languages. The most squared ideas became acceptable in his style. That's why there were millions of people from all over the world who were crying. Yebiroğlu was the son of a generation in great pain. He never turned his injustices, his tortures, into words of revenge. He did not poison young people by producing hatred for their own lives. He learned from pain, from torture. Take a pen, not a gun, for the young ones. Since he didn't replace anyone else, he became a friend, a friend, a Muhsin president, who could easily be reached. He's never done anything with his ambitions. In this world, where everyone is running for their own good, it is not for that three-day world. It is true by saying. Dear MPs, he dreamed of a country in Turkey where the one covering its head and the one opening its head would live in a country where there was no ban, no fights, no brothers. The Kurdish-Turkmen imagined a Turkey without the Alevi-Sunni distinction, without the rich-fakir privilege, without privilege, without class, fused. Today we experience the happiness of your dreams coming true. Muhsin Yazıoğlu has been opposed to custody and coups in his entire life, not by the word, but by the essence. This stance is based on faith in democracy. Moreover, not only do I resist the blows, but I do not salute a tank that has turned its reputation into a nation. Turkey will not be Iran. It is true that Turkey will not be Iran, it will not be Algeria, it will not be Turkey, but we will not make Turkey Syria. He also knew how to challenge the mighty generals of February 28th. He was a brave young man who revealed the true intentions of the February 28th coupgers. From the day the Turkish Grand National Assembly opened, only the First Assembly had seen a single voice. In the snow, Muhsin Yazıoğlu, who received the prayers of millions of Muslims while waiting to be found, was sent to his nation in a state ceremony with one hand on his shoulders and prayer. A lot of people have witnessed his faith, his Muslim life, including me. For this reason, I hope, in the Hereafter, the Prophet will be near to our Lord, Abubekir, Omare, Osmana, Ali, Saladdin Ayyubi, and Sadiuz to Said Nursi, and Fatih. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, his death was the death of a man like the man who had collected the logic of a thousand years of Turkish Islamic culture. His death was not the death of a man who saw the earth in the flowerpot, but the death of an Anatolian man who came from the midst of the earth. His death was the death of a litigator who lived and lived the values of his nation. His death was the death of the leader of a movement dedicated to making Islaman yeast his youth his leader. His death was the death of an idealistic son of a country, a Mohsin President, who was always on the side of the oppressed, who didn't bow down to the oppressor, who didn't put the heads of those who believed in him forward. I hope the new Printersons grow in this country. It's only possible to build a reputation for politics with such political men. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a man who has come to know him well, who has made friends, who has had the opportunity to do politics for the same ideals, I bless him in the 6th year of his death, and may his soul rest in peace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's March 25th. In 2009, six years ago, it was the anniversary of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu's march to Hakkk. Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, I cherish you. We offer our condolences to his family, the nation's and nationalist community, and his place will be in heaven. Of course, public suspicions about the 2009 helicopter crash, which led to the death of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, have not been resolved. The confusion in search and rescue on that day, the presidential State Control Board report, despite research reports made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has not been reached. Unfortunately, Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu has made it clear that the Prime Minister at the time, who would offer himself as a US-Israel project, had rejected his request to support this project, in response to the request of the U.S.A., which had obviously been published in the newspapers, and then we would serve the nation. The founders of a party that was founded today as a US and Israel project, and on that day, he turned his back on his proposals, and he was able to show an international attitude. Unfortunately, his Great Union Party has been subjected to conspiracies and operations because it has taken a different stand in the President's election. With these developments today, we welcome Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the country's Muhsin Yazıoğlu. We extend our condolences to his family and to the entire international and nationalist community. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0010par0069	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0011par0072	Mr. President, thank you. The late Yazýoğlu was my friend. There were times when we worked together during the twilight of 80 years ago. I knew him well. He was a decent, decent, virtuous man, with a clear direction, trying to embrace everyone. It wasn't easy to remain steadfast during that period 80 years ago, to have some sensitivity to Turkey and to have a human perspective on the world, and to keep the flag of this land, this nation, standing up in that struggle environment. The late Yazıoğlu has succeeded. After 80, he was tried in September 12th and served many years in prison. So I was in prison for a year, and we were together in Mamak Prison. Later on, we had many conversations, many conversations. Its destination was always the direction of these lands, these people. He's always kept his destination right. He may not have embraced everyone politically, but he obviously had a very strong response to this nation's conscience. In this land, it's a pity that sometimes you have to look back on the afterlife to see what these people are worth. After the death of Yazıoğlu, I attended the funeral, where everyone was there. This was a vital indication of the response of Yazbioğlu in the nation, of his sensitivity, of his humanity, of his being a man of struggle. May God have mercy on him, may he rest in peace.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. We worked together in the same administration for two or three semesters while Muhsin Yazıoğlu was President of the Januarys. It's possible to count many of your features. In this year's year's service, I cherish it. Of course, his death has been painful, but the darkness is still unlighted. It is of course the work of our faith to remember the dead by mercy, but I look astounded at the efforts of our friends, who have the ability to walk, to shed light on the darkness over his death, and still have a very diverse legacy about his name, and I find it not sincere. In Turkey, it's only a matter of time before everything's lit up, hours too late, search rescues, neglects, false news, all of this... so how did the power not get in there when most people entered their bedrooms?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you. Mr. Sait...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. I also ask God's mercy for Mr. Yazbioğlu. He was the head of the Friendship Group of Kosovo during the EC PARTY administrations and was a man who served the Balkans with great services. May he live in heaven, a beautiful man, a man of integrity, a friend of God. I ask God's mercy again. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0015par0088	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0016par0090	Mr. President, the late Mohsin Yazıoğlu may have served as a representative in our democracy with 1.2% and 3% in Turkey, but in this country he is a leader who has earned the appreciation of his country, his nation, his state, everyone who loves him, and has left important marks. I believe that Mohsin Yazıoğlu continues his love, respect, and conversation in the hearts of all patriots. No one has the right to blame the Justice and Development Party for the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu. The death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu as well as the play on Justice and Development Party is a product of the same scenario.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0017par0092	Who's gonna light it up, me?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0016par0093	Let everyone know that he's always been in close dialogue with our party, with our President, during his time. No one has the right to blame the EC PARTY on this. I say may he rest in peace, may he rest in peace.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0019par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu's death, I ask for God's mercy. Suspicions of the death of Mr. Yazbioğlu are still unresolved. It is a shame for this state that these doubts, the dark spots, have not been illuminated. I hereby invite the government, the entire public administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to clarify the doubts about this incident. Secondly, I'd like to point out that two days ago, an accident occurred at the Izmit Bay Pass Bridge. No one by any chance lost their lives in the accident. However, after this accident, a Japanese engineer working on the Gulf Pass, Ryoichi Kishi, who was responsible for the incident, committed suicide by leaving his note. To my dear Kishi, I pray for God's mercy here. I ask God's mercy again because it reminds this community of a feeling that has not been in our society for a long time. However, I would like to say something to my dear Kishi, dear Kishi, here in Turkey, that no one commits suicide because of these events, no one will stop their lives, no one will even resign from their mission to commit guilt, error, suicide, not by admitting their guilt. I'd like to announce to Kishi to all Turkey that in the name of Kishi, of our municipality of Yalova, the city of Yalova will build a monument in the Tonami Square. Tonami is a town in Japan, a sister town in Yalova. During the Yalova earthquake in 1999, the Tonamis came to Yalova to help the Yalovans. Now, on the occasion of another incident, the Yalovans answer the people of a city that has shown such brotherhood with a monument. I'm here to congratulate the mayor of Yalova on his attitude. I really wish Kishi mercy once more from my heart. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you. Mr. Boyraz...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0021par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. O master of eternity, I want to reach you. / Wait, don't close my windows/ Don't close my sun/ The concrete is so cold, I'm cold... He couldn't have known that the place he was going to say goodbye to would be as cold as the poem he wrote 25 years ago, or anyone else. The verses written on the broken stones of Mamak Prison were, in a sense, the lines of Yazıoğlu's fate. Not on a white page in a black hole, but on the white snows of Berit. His life was filled with endless struggles, a thought, a man of the cause, Yebiroğlu. Whether he agreed with her or not, he was a man everyone and everyone else appreciated, his humanity, his gentlemanliness, his dignity. He lived as one of the thousands, millions of patriots raised in the bosom of Anatolia, and one afternoon he disappeared into the unknown of his hometown, which he loved as much as his life. His departure and his presence were silent, sirly, in his own way.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0022par0109	Thank you. Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0023par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Saddam Hussein, who, on 16 March 1988, would be cursed until the end of the day, had suppressed Aleppoçe's demand for peace and freedom with a unique violence, poisoned every living creature with chemical gases, and brutally killed them, while the councils, who were entrusted with the security of the world, had always preferred the humiliation of silence for their evil interests. On the 27th anniversary of the massacre, I curse the oppressors of Aleppo, and bless the oppressed. Today I also cherish them on the 55th and 6th anniversary of the death of Mohsin Yazıoğlu, the name of dedication to a case.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0024par0115	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0025par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. In the case of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, many political people, scientists, patriots, for 13 years, the government has failed to do anything about the unsolved murders. I ask for God's mercy. The natural and historical environment is being destroyed in the area of plundering protection. The muğla coasts are rented by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and by MUCEV, founded by the Muğla Governorate, while the coves are sublet by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs. Bedri Rahmi, Akbük, Göbübün, Dalaman Coves, the Dalaman Forest Management Directorate, is tendered to build facilities where there is no structure on it. I suggest that the government stop this immediately. Locals are very sensitive and objective. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0026par0121	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0027par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. I am Turkish, not Turkish prisoners. I'm Turkish, not without a Turkish state. I'm Turkish, not without a Turkish flag. I'm Turkish, not without Turkish discipline. I'm Turkish, not without Turkish freedom. The speaker of these words is Mohsin Yazıoğlu, our great man of law, our MP, the leader of the nation's community, whom we remember with mercy and longing on the 6th anniversary of his testimony today. I remember him with mercy, and once again my condolences to the Turkish nation. In the morning, at the head of his grave, we prayed. I wish there were representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, not only on this bench, but at the head of his grave. His family also shouted there, where the economists, the Turkish nationalists, also shouted there. It's still not clear to me what kind of accident or murder the deceased was killed in. The Turkish nation's heart, conscience are still bleeding, and this matter needs to be cleared up as soon as possible.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you. Haci Bayram Türkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0029par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. I, Muhsin Yazıoğlu, remember him once again with mercy and thanks in the 6th year of his march to Hakkk. He was a man of the cause, he was an ulcus giant, who fought for the unity of the Turkish nation, the alive and the future for the rest of his life. He's a litigator, modeled in society, guided by his style, by his personality, by his personality, by his personality. Once again, in his spiritual self, I ask for God's mercy, he bows down, and I say, "I am sorry for the great Turkish nation." We believe that martyrs don't die, he's among us, his spirituality is with us at any moment. May God have mercy on him. May he rest in peace.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0028par0136	Mr. Hüseyin Türkoğlu...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0030par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 6th anniversary of his death, I cherish the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was a true Turkish nationalist, a sincere archipelago. For six years there have been doubts about his death, and it hasn't been illuminated. Still no investigations have been concluded. It makes sense that those who arrive in the bedroom cannot reach the accident of Muhsin Yazıoğlu and the information that would shed light on the accident, and it kills us. It also kills us to see Turkish nationalists try to exploit Turkish nationalism over the murder of a Turkish nationalist. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0031par0141	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0032par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, three days ago, Japanese engineer Kishi Ryoichi, an engineer of the Gulf-Yalova Pass, committed suicide as a result of being an honorable and virtuous human being, caused by mistake and error. In Turkey, where the civil bureaucrat stands, who has made many mistakes, this death, along with his suffering, has left us all aching. The Japanese doctor Atsushi Miyazaki, who also died in the aftershocks of the Van earthquake, has no boundaries with his activist identity, and has acted in harmony with the spirit of universal law and sharing, despite the hegemonic understanding of the national and national state. I salute them with respect, and I invite everyone to act on universal law norms.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0033par0146	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0034par0148	Mr. President, on this day when we are in the custody of Turkish nationalism that AKP has put under the influence of Turkey's Islamic cause and of the brothers of this holy cause, the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu Bey's loss, I ask for the mercy of my great Lord. Once again, my condolences to your loved ones and the ulterior community. Today, there are rumors, very serious doubts about his loss. It is the AKP government's responsibility to expose these rumors. As he hasn't been able to do this in six years, I'd still like to say today that he's still taking advantage of the love of our country and going to these kinds of talks, and he's still undermining it. Once again, I ask God's mercy to the President of Mohsin.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0033par0149	Mr. Akbulut.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0035par0151	Mr. President, in the 6th year of his death, we remember the late Muhsin Yazbioğlu and the great Islamic conquistador Said Nursi, with mercy and gratitude in the 55th year of his death. May their place be in heaven. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0033par0153	Thank you. And we, the late Muhsin, remember the President with mercy, and offer our condolences to his loved ones. We call the President Muhsin the Garden of Eden. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to remove the obstacles to multilingual education at the request of the arrested Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım, the Constitution is 98th in order to be given public service from the choice of Kurdish education, and the infrastructure of all the demands that should have been made. And with respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. Given the Kurdish electives, institutional logic and implementation of schools in our cities, most of the population consists of Kurds, the government's attempts to fill an eye and save its own political image have not gone beyond. Nearly 100 per cent of the population has been removed from education status in Kurdish cities and districts and turned into a demonstration. The Iraqi and Kurdish Regional Administration, which the Turkish main media and the ruling political mind call the state-run state, has constitutionally secured the implementation of four formal education and service languages in some areas according to the dominant and sub-linguals used as both public service and educational language. In this context, for years, it has deepened the problem rather than being persistently ignoring the Kurdish main language education struggle, pushing Kurdish into an area even below foreign language status, compressing it into an hour-a-week course. When Kurdish electives are distributed to students, the student is not given any initiative, and even the students elected by teacher and administration are given lessons in Kurdish. Most teachers who attend Kurdish language classes do not even have certificates. How can it be explained that even teachers who do not speak Kurdish in Hakkari and Şırnak districts are taking classes? Why is an internal training exercise still not being implemented? Kurdish electives practice is made only to fill private lessons, not beyond formalities and eye filling. The Ministry of National Education must immediately investigate this issue and carry out its responsibility, while the government must give up its steps to Kurdish and begin the multilingual education process. At this point, we demand a parliamentary investigation to demonstrate the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to remove obstacles in the face of multilingual education, to be given permanent public service from the elective of Kurdish education, to prepare the substructure of all these demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose the need for the Constitution's 98th Internal Charter, in order to prevent power from becoming a backyard that will force its own ideological approaches against society and future generations, to prevent it from becoming a field of political rants, such as in clothing debates; democratic, liberating, critical, main language, pluralist and scientific education, to investigate how to be built and carried out. Although education is one of the most important dynamics of individual and community liberalisation and development, it is completely transformed into a device of formal ideology far from its role in Turkey. It is known that students are given nationalist, monotheist, militant, sexist and assimilationist education. After the National Ministry of Education's 27/11/2012 date and regulation number 28480, public opinion shows that a debate was carried out over the students' clothing and there was a polarisation. When we look at the sides of the discussion, we regret to see that both poles want to shape education according to their ideology. The most important thing to discuss today is this imposed mentality. It is this twin mentality that does not view education as a space of freedom, it does not approach education with a democratic, scientific and critical perception, but has the right to intervene in the way of life, future, language, faith, and culture through education. Both mentalitys are militants, both mentalitys are nationalists, both mentalitys are assimilationists, one-typers. As a BDP, we support the freedom of clothing in education, but how it should be done should be decided by students and family, not by central power. Our basic approach here is that the decision is made by those most affected by the decision. The central power, which is government, should help students dress up for short periods of time because of class differences and may have negative effects on student psychology, and in the middle and long term, such social inequality should be minimized by means of civic income and similar methods. As a BDP, we believe that freedom of clothing should include not only students but also educational workers. If the Minister of National Education is pointing to developed countries, then you have to ask, how many of the developed countries are required to dress up teachers? Clearly, the release of clothing from a centrally sexist approach does not further democratize education, as the Minister explained. Every day when students are being sworn in at school, education is considered a crime in their native language, while different languages, culture and beliefs in this country's schools are being singled out, while others are being separated, opposition education workers are being tried to be silenced by administrative and judicial operations, while ALO 147 reports such as reports are being printed, unscheduled teachers are committing suicide while they are standing guard for weeks because they can't be appointed at Abdi İpekçı Park. While all this is happening, it's clear that a change of clothing predicts freedom is a political maneuver, not about democratisation and freedom in education. The desire to polarize education issues on the secularism and conservativeity axis and manipulate the party's own bases and public opinion is a very dangerous game played by children. Education cannot be transformed into a means of raising generations that will sustain the power's own existence. Unfortunately, like previous rulings in Turkey, AKP's holistic approach to education appears to be antidemocratic, political and assimilationist. It is very important that a parliamentary study be opened to prevent education from becoming the back garden of power, to prevent it from becoming a field of political gains, such as in dress-up debates, to determine how to build and implement democratic, liberating, critical, pluralistic and scientific education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and provide the necessary measures for the sale of honey syrup, fake honey, illegal and unknown honeys, to determine what needs to be done, so that the quality of honey and Bitlis honey raised in Turkey will not be reduced by illegal means, and the quality of honey-making beekeepers can be sold at the cost of their produce, and the cost of selling honey syrup, fake honey, illegal, and otherwise unknown honeys in order to determine what needs to be done. [[Bitlis]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The development of bee and bee products provides an important entry into Turkey's economy, a significant part of the rural population is being employed, and a significant part of the national income is being covered by beekeeping. Fake honey leads to an unfair rivalry and the victim of producers entering Turkey illegally. Smuggled honey from abroad undermines the reputation of the honey raised in both Turkey and Bitlis Province. The failure to register honeys entering Turkey by illegal means harms the country's economy. The honeys entering Turkey illegally can't be registered and can't hurt the country's economy, and have a negative effect on beekeepers in Turkey who provide beekeeping for their livelihood. Honeys from illegal routes, the unregistered honey, the negative impact on consumer health, and damage to thousands of beekeepers. While illegal honeys in the yurt have a negative effect on public health, it is becoming a big problem for these honeys to enter our country, which are not necessarily fit for the food codex and are not subject to any inspection. These honeys enter Turkey illegally, harming the interests and efforts of those who work beekeeping, endangering human health by victimizing manufacturers. Turkey's largest beekeeping basin is the Eastern Anatolian region. The province of Bitlis is one of the most important beekeeping centres in Turkey that constitutes the largest basin in the production of yayla and honey. Beekeeping is one of the oldest activities in the Bitlis region with a strong vein. The province of Bitlis has an organic production environment where there is no industrial investment, where agricultural pesticide techniques are not used. Bitlis honey is at the top of the most quality honey produced in our country because its rich fluoride and endemic plants are abundant. Around 700,000 beekeeping businesses registered in Bitlis County produce around 1,500 tonnes of honey annually with around 100,000 science and traditional land hives, and provide 15-20m euros per year in the province's economy. In this line of work, where about 10,000 people earn a living, 2,000 people are employed. The amount of flower honey produced in the eastern Anatolian region, including Bitlis Province, is 2/3/3 of the land and honey production in Turkey. We offer and provide the necessary measures for the sale of honey syrup, fake honey, illegal and unknown honeys, to determine what is necessary, to ensure that the quality of honey and Bitlis honey raised illegally in Turkey will not be reduced, to sell the produce of honey-making bees, and to ensure that the sales of counterfeit honeys, illegal and otherwise unknown honeys will not be allowed, and to determine what is necessary, by means of the 98th and 104th and 105th articles of the Constitutional Charter. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Wednesday 25/03/2015 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On March 23, 2015, the Parliament's research motion for the National Assembly of Turkey to prevent military involvement in politics was proposed to be presented before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly on Wednesday (25/03/2015) and to be read in presentations on Wednesday (1814). The People's Democratic Party Group has asked for a statement in favour of Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0036par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you first. In Turkey, military-political relations and democracy are a very important issue because it is on our hot agenda again. Why are we saying this? You guys know about the Roboski massacre. The massacre of Roboski, where 34 lives have been torn apart by warplanes, is now in the Constitutional Court and the International Criminal Court and the United Nations Court of Human Rights. These are pictures of our Roboski brothers who were shot as smugglers, most of them children. You'll say, "Why?" In these pictures, you see the mules carrying these shattered souls. Unfortunately, for a week now, Roboski has been slaughtered for the slaughter of mules. Take a good look at these pictures, the other side of Roboski is right across the border from Turkey and the mules that were killed by the soldier's firing. Nine of them were killed only yesterday, and a few last week. The villagers used resistance rights in this regard, they put on demonstrations, the governorship, the government. But I really suggest you take a good look at these pictures. Now, the legal penalty for a mule crossing the line is... does a mule know if it's a crime to cross the line? When a mule walks through the village, does the soldier know to stop when he says stop? So, to kill a living creature without blinking, to provoke the locals, and to do so in the name of security, I say, "I shoot them because of smugglers." It's actually telling us about the past 33 bullet incidents. Now, we call from here to the government, and we say over and over again: "Is this the result of your policy that your government ordered the governor and the commander there, and is this the result of these massacres... who ordered the slaughter of mules after the massacre of men? What do you want to do in Roboski? We really want to ask. He's in Roboski, and he's in the village right now, with soldiers, civilian vehicles, and no license plates, and he's running around in public provoking people. Those who don't pay for 34 lives, the people who live there, as you can see in the picture, slaughter their mules and pass through history with no example in the world. Why did I say that here? Because the pictures you see are really terrifying. Of course, here I would like to address the animal rights advocates, where are you? I mean, it's easy to talk here, but unfortunately, there's not a single effort. Why did we say that? Recently, friends who have had 30 press statements since the Turkish Armed Forces' solution process, after the solution process, and they're making statements as if the government is under the orders of the Turkish Armed Forces; it's not the Prime Minister of General Staff, it's the Prime Minister of General Staff; it's as if the Turkish Armed Forces are not connected to the Ministry of National Defence, it's the Ministry of Defense. You'll say, "Why?" Because in the work brought by the solution process, a spirit of wife took responsibility for us in the Middle East, for the 1,000 years of unity in Turkey, against the tyranny of ISIS, against the barbarism, where the heroic resilience of Kobani, the war, the epic, the YPG, and the YPJ (YPJ)'s Kobani Shahsah operation took responsibility for the operation of Süleyman Shahnaman, after the rescue of Kobani, Rojava Kürdistan. Now, Chief of Staff Necdet Special is coming out, he's making a statement yesterday, and he says: "The PYD arm of Syria is being legitimateized." Ya, Chief of Staff, are you a defender of ISIS? Do you want this barbarian organization to be legitimized, who has cut off heads and sold women in the slave market, who slaughtered Turks in Tuzhurmatou, who slaughtered Turks in Kerkuk, Şengal, Kurd, Turk, Süryani, Asuri, Ezidi, and this barbaric organization that has been attacking without saying, burning shrines, destroying historical culture? Of course, those heroic girl warriors defeated and expelled these barbarians from Kobani, and liberated Kobani. And of course, in those heroic warriors' uniforms -- Nasrin Abdullah, Asia Abdullah -- they've been accepted in the presidency and accepted in all European countries in all modern democracies. Again, in Iraq, the Kurdistan Regional Administration is fighting against ISIS barbarism, PKK guerrillas fighting in Mahmur. Do you know that there are 15,000 refugees living in the province of Botan? That was where ISIS first attacked. He has attacked Shengal, he has attacked Tuzhurmatu, he has attacked Kerkuk, he has slaughtered the Turkmen. Should this Chief of Staff and Turkish Armed Forces stand by ISIS, side with those who are fighting against ISIS, who have written this heroic saga, who advocate the brotherhood, peace and democratic solution of the Middle Eastern peoples? History never forgives those who stand in the wrong place, my friends. For him we say there is a danger of war." he said: "O my people! We'll form special action commando units; we've built two, we'll build another one." Says the Chief of Staff. Do you want to try this now in Roboski? There are already 317 border outposts, and he says they want to connect it to one central command. What about the government's high strategic agreements with Iraq, Syria? What about the government's oil deals with the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Management in the Middle East? 40 million Kurds live in Syria, Iraq, the Middle East, 20 million in Turkey, we say you're in historical scissors, the government and the military are in the wrong direction. These scissors are the union of the Turkish and Kurdish people in the Middle East for another thousand years. I want to show you these pictures of the soldier's conversation with ISIS, and I want to say that these soldiers are on the wrong path, despite the government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say it would be extremely helpful to investigate this House, and I invite you all to come to common sense.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0037par0268	Thank you. It's Smurf Ünal, İstanbul MP, who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0038par0272	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the opening of the HDP Group's parliamentary investigation. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY is a party that believes that the political system in Turkey must be fully reviewed and has made the political institution the solution mechanism for problems. At the same time, a solution-oriented political understanding has expanded the political field, boosting the influence, credibility, and power of the political institution. Political-military relations, which have previously been extremely troubled, have also entered the normalisation process of many issues that have been gangrenous. Dear MPs, in the state structure of the Republic of Turkey, our military commanders in the Turkish Armed Forces are on duty to the Chief of Staff, and our Chief of Staff, Mr. Prime Minister. This structure is the only unique structure in our NATO alliance. In some Western countries, such as the United States and Spain, the military commanders work directly under the Minister of Defence. The chain of command in the United States is, for example, the Secretary of the Air Force, Minister of Defence and President of the Air Force Command. In Spain, the Air Force chain of command is the Commander of the Air Force, the Minister of Defence, the President and the King. The military structure differs from many developed Western countries because the United States is governed by the presidential system as well as because it wants to rule the world as a superpower. In parallel with our efforts to democratize, increasing the military efficiency of the National Defence Ministry can and should be studied by the Turkish Grand National Assembly for a long time. In the 1980s, in Spain, the Socialist Party's efforts to integrate the Spanish armed forces into democracy could also be modeled or created a unique, domestic, national model. The EC PARTY is seeking to continue its military-political relations patiently, constructively and well-intentioned as part of the democratisation of society. During his command, the Chief of Staff of the 24th term forbade the commanders of the force to speak to the press, took the authority directly into his own hands, and was never used in spite of the coup attempt, which would interfere with politics during the mandate. During the 28th Chief of Staff in office, the soldier remains completely out of politics. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY governments have taken significant steps in the past decade to withdraw the soldier from politics, thanks to their proposals to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For example, I'll sort out a few of them. For example, we've changed the structure of the High Military Shura, the Prime Minister's activity, the efficiency of politics. We changed the definition of military service. You know, we've been offered a law from our Parliament to prevent the 35th Article of the Turkish Armed Forces Interior Service Law from being used as a Fulcrum for coups. We've also passed the law on the request of non-privilegation of chief officers' wives. A few weeks ago, we submitted the provisions of our Home Secretary's authority over the General Command of the Gendarme and the Coast Guard Command to the General Assembly's discretion and we passed them through. The Turkish Armed Forces are the apple of our nation's eye. Our government is directly responsible for its preparation for war and its protection of deterrent power. We have the determination and determination to maintain the power of the modern Turkish Armed Forces, who are doing the tasks provided by the Council of Ministers. As part of our country's democratisation, our careful and meticulous efforts to keep the Turkish Armed Forces out of politics will continue. We aim high. 2023, 2053, 2071 will continue our efforts to increase democratic activity on the soldier in line with our goals. The mandate of the 24th term of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be officially completed in about ten days. Therefore, he declares that I am against the proposal, that the HDP Group's proposal is not possible in this narrow process, that it is appropriate for us to focus on the issues on our agenda, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0039par0283	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0040par0287	Mr. President, I'm talking about the People's Democratic Party's research proposal for the normalisation of Turkey, the sitting of democratic norms, the fulfillment of the principles of the legal state, for the apparent normalisation of military and political relations. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that this proposal has recently been proposed by the Chief of Staff on the move of the Süleyman Shah Turbage to the Cove of Rojava, which is: Süleyman Shah Turbesi has moved to the Cove within the borders of Rojava, where Abdullah Ocalan has issued a statement saying that it is not helping to move this Süleyman Shah Turbesi. Now, valued lawmakers, the letter of Abdullah Ocalan is actually a letter that has been released through the control of the government, through the control of the MIT (intel). Since Abdullah Ocalan highlighted the spirit of the wife in that letter, it was clear that there was support for the Turkish Armed Forces of the Turkish Armed Forces, or the YPG, that they had to remove it. Now, really, the normalization of Turkey here is really possible with the normalisation of democratic principles, the normalisation of military and political relations as Turkey's legal state. The struggle for democracy and the state of law is impossible to base on the axis of narrowing down the area of the soldier's influence. At this point, politics is not the military, it is not the General Staff; it is the political power that governs these policies. In fact, the coups in Turkey are not just by the actions of soldiers. Today, the coups of soldiers in our time are behind us. Now it's the coup d'états of civil will. So those who use the resources of democracy today to take control of the state are doing their best to ignore democracy and the principles that gave it power. Now, the issue here, according to the Kurdish corridor plan that was updated by the United States when we looked at it, is that there are PYD people on the Syrian side of the border, and there are PKK people on the Turkish side. The Joint Chiefs also know that the PKK is in control of the section that will start from the border of Gaziantep and will continue until the Gulf of Alexander and the Fourways. Even the deaf sultan knows that the U.S. corridor was intended to start in Syria from the Kurdish area to the Ayn Al-Arab, and to reach the sea in the Bay of Alexander in Turkey. Everyone knows that the Syrian branch of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) from the Iraqi border to Ayn Al-Arab. Only Telabyad is controlled by ISIS, and according to information, it is among the information that the United States will be able to control Telabyad. The President of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today knows that the U.S. has drawn the borders of the Kurdish region in Syria with air raids as an excuse to fight against ISIS. Dear lawmakers, our problem here is that we haven't been able to really, really, still, really digest democracy and the culture of the state of law. I'd like to mention a few sentences to the claims of the military's alleged Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases. The cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer are actually cases that have been tried against the coup attempt or conspiracy, which must first be cleared. Now, look, Yalçın Akdoğan on 6 August 2013, the Ergenekon case is the name of the largest legal reckoning in the history of the republic. The trial and punishment of allegations of attempted coup are historic, and Turkey has succeeded, he says. Who says that? That's what Yalçın Akdoğan calls it. So he puts it there as a legal reckoning with the blows. But what does the same Yalçin Akdoğan say recently as a political chief advisor? By pointing out his laughing congregation, he knows very well that those who conspire against his country's national army, national intelligence, national bank, civil power in the hearts of the nation could not have done any good for this country. He knows well how sickly understanding those who find every means to reach the goal. He says. I mean, here he says these cases are a setup. That's where the contradictions come from, my dear friends. I mean, first of all, we really need to know whether it's a coup or an army conspiracy or a plot against democracy, which we really need to know. The bottom line of all these sick advances is that Turkey is not the state of law. When we ask the question "Is Turkey really a state of law?" I'm sorry to say that we can't make it clear that Turkey is a state of law. The legal state is a state based on the rule of law. No organ or person is above the law in the state of law. The rule of law speaks of the law of all the organs of the state. Not all of the state's organs are above the law, and the state's organs have absolute but absolute sovereignty over them. In the state of law, the rules are not only for those who are governed, but for those who rule more than that. Everyone in the state of law, first the rulers, must obey the rules of law and abide by the rules of law. In this process, which we have passed through and under pressure by the words of democracy, the most fundamental principles of the Constitution are the independence of the judiciary, the violations of the legal state, such as the equality of the Jews. In countries in which democracy is firmly structured by law, political power's movement is even more limited. In today's Turkey, the government's area of movement has been expanded and ambivalent. Today, when the Constitution is being practically drilled out of the law, the political government can continue its occupation by disregarding social reflexes. Turkey's current state of law and the concepts of "democracy" cannot be explained. The foundation of the state of law is control. You can't improve the law and the law while you're beating up the republic, beating up the republic. If you really want to improve the law, you have to care about the republic and democracy. There's nothing wrong with us investigating the issues involved in this motion, but I think it's not just about military and civil relations, it's about all the processes that destroy democracy and the state of law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0041par0302	Thank you. Now it's Ramazan Can who wants to take a stand against you, Kırıkkale MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0042par0306	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, Turkey has been subjected to military intervention in its political history, and in the last century, the former and the new, the status quo has been constantly fighting for custody. In the last sixty-five years, 3 actual, 1 postmodern, 1 e-migration coups have raised a serious military-political problem in the country. First of all, the soldier saw himself as the guardian of the regime. In fact, the guardian of the regime can never be a soldier, the guardian of the regime is democracy, law, nation, the will of the nation. (EC PARTY) The coupters, who did not notice social change, who ignored the will of the nation, who did not understand the spirit of time, chose to strengthen their position rather than invite the army to the barracks. Unfortunately, we all witnessed the period when the prime ministers were hanged on the gallows, the prime ministers were scolded by eratism, otherized, weakened. The principle that national will prevails, that democracy is fundamental, that sovereignty is the unconditional nation has always been on paper. The nation went to the polls, elected its representatives, dominated the national will, but someone ignored it, never gave power to the national will. The army, which had become the hostages of the coupters, had gone from its original mission to design politics. Instead of calling this cycle a halt, the weak authorities and shallow politicians tried to be the product of an intermediary regime, to take limited advantage of the soldier's situation in politics, but every time they used that limited authority, politicians agreed to their fate, and they didn't forget to say hello to the post as they left the political scene. Yes, the coupgers of the soldiers, those who interfered in politics, of course, were guilty, but the politicians who allowed it, not as much as they were, were also guilty. In Turkey, where there have been coup attempts in the past decade, the opening of the trial on the coup attempt on September 12th, the opening of the investigations on February 28, April 27, was even symbolic. The EC PARTI, which advocates change in perpetuity, has taken democracy, law on its own principle, and has moved its leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the military barracks, the main post, by providing the identity of democracy, the rule of law, rather than the so-called rule of law. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I present the group's proposal to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0043par0310	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0044par0311	I'll call. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0045par0316	Mr. President, this motion for the agenda of the research proposal is being made by the Chief of Staff regarding a talk and a statement regarding the spirit of the wife. We have to say that the PKK is a terrorist organization, this terrorist organization is a terrorist organization that has put a bullet in our state's military, police, engineer, killed Kurdish people, murdered Kurdish people, and is a narco terrorist organization. The PYD is also a political extension of this. PKK, NYD, ISIS have committed massacres on behalf of humanity, which are a terrorist organization. The state of the Republic of Turkey should never, never have to. There is no political and legal legitimacy to any process that has been met. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0044par0318	Thank you. I'll submit the proposal to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0046par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0044par0321	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0046par0323	Mr. MHP Group Deputy Director's statement... they could have spoken, they couldn't speak, but I must say that there are no terrorist records in the entire United Nations, all over Europe, all over the world, of those who resisted in Kobani. ISIS is a terrorist, ISIS has a record. ISIS has also been regarded as a terrorist by Turkey. All who support ISIS and support it in every way are terrorists. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0047par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0044par0325	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0047par0326	The PKK is clearly and clearly is a subcontractor to legitimize US-Israel projects on this geography. Our whole nation knows that. We all know who they're fed by and what steps they've taken to legitimize them. So we'll continue to make our position clear.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit01spe0044par0327	It's on the books, sir. Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is no decision enough, I give the merger a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0044par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. I'm going to put it to your vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to Chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 25/03/2015 (Today), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan and 26 MPs' motion for parliamentary research on Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 18/03/2015 to determine issues stemming from the uncertainty of the new settlement in the district of Yusufeli, Artvin Province (1754 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (25/03/2015) and held in the same dated combination of their talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a group proposal from Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0048par0018	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute your grand delegation. Again, at the beginning of my words, I salute the Yusufeli from all over Turkey, even all over the world, who watch us at the beginning of the televisions. Dear MPs, March 16, 2015 -- on Monday of last week, a resurrection rally was held in Yusufeli, a second rally was held. At this rally, because Yusufeli would be under the dam, the Yusufites in a sense wanted to walk across the streets of Yusufeli to show their cries and complaints to all Turkey. In my speech there, I made a promise to the Yusufeli, saying: "As soon as I return to Ankara, we will take down a parliamentary inquiry motion with the signatures of our fellow MPs in Parliament, and we will first speak of Yusufeli, a district of Ardanç after our town, in Parliament, we will discuss, what are the shortcomings, and we will bring it up." Once again, I salute the Yusufli with love, dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, what's the problem here? Let us first tell you about Joseph, as I told you last time in my speech. I said, "There is a rightist in Joseph, and a leftist, and there is no political thought; there is not a traitor." They never discussed the values of the Republic, the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the moon-star flag, the Yusufites. In that sense, I'm celebrating them once again. There was no problem with their government, when the government called them, come to the army. When he said, they ran. They went to the Canakkale Wars. Go, today, in Çanakkale, on the gravestones there, in the martyr tombs, you will see the names of the Yusufites. They ran ahead in the fight against the PKK, my dear friends. In that sense, Yusufli has no problem with the state. Yusufeli expects attention from the state, thinking he's been neglected. My dear friends, what's the matter? In that sense, how should we describe Joseph? Yusufeli, as I just pointed out, is underwater. In the past period, in the 23rd term, my dear friends, a number 5753 was passed. Law 5753 was the Law on the Changing of the Centre of Artvin Ili Yusufeli County. It's been eight years, my dear friends. At the time, Artvin MP Metin Arifgağoglu, who represented us in Parliament at the time, was a problem in this current settlement, where the landslide is a problem, a landslide region, where the trend reaches 70 per cent, and the flat place has shown some reservations because it finds 2 per cent, but there has been law in Parliament. After that, the Yusufites had a referendum, a common concept of this place, my dear friends. It's been eight years. Look, we're in the eighth year, and for eight years, no nails have been nailed to the settlement here. Josepheli says: "You have shown me a place of dwelling. You said to me, "Go to this settlement, sit down, and I will build you a house." You said, "I will build a dam here; I will bury a city in the ground with its history, with its streets, with its inhabitants, with its people, with its graves." Okay, above my head. They had no argument against the state, but at this point, the government says: "I'm going to build the settlement for you in the next few days, on an uncertain date." Says Yusufeli: "What are you going to do to me about the placement?" Now, my dear friends, after a little while, the lawmakers come in here and express their views, but before each election, before the 30th of March elections, before the previous election, in relation to this new settlement, business machines are being brought to the present place fifteen days before the election, 20 days before the election, playing with the sand, my dear friends. And now, after the speech we had last week, our governor did something like a groundbreaking ceremony there -- eight or nine business machines -- which are very strange, just on the hill where Yusufeli will see it, not everywhere -- where the Yusufli will see it, they take their lamps, they take the sand here at night, they put them on the other side, they put the sand over there, they put them on this side, my dear friends. I'm guessing my congressman will be talking about it in a little while. Now, therefore, he says: "Show me my place in my dwelling place." My dear friends, on the other hand, the wall of the Josephite Dam begins to rise. Six villages remained in publicization, my dear friends, six villages and six villages destroyed on one side. There is a total destruction of 17 villages, so there is a nationalization fair, and we are not showing Yusufeli a new settlement, my dear friends. Me, now, from here, to all Parliament, to Turkey, to the public: when are you going to build this settlement, my dear friends? When are you going to nail this settlement, and when are you going to start? In his speech the other day, the minister said: "When are we going to build a Joseph, like flowers?" We want a date on this. What we see is that on the one hand, the nationalization continues. We tell six people in the village to take this place and leave where you were born and fed. On the one hand and on the other, we say, "I'm going to set up the settlement for you at an uncertain date ahead. This is a special project, my dear friends. The name of this project is....................... The humanization project is being run. It's about Yusufeli. What were we talking about? That BOP, a famous BOP, the Great Middle East Project, is on this project, signed by Colonel Ralph of the United States Department of Defense, and unfortunately on that map is Artvin, my dear friends in the Black Sea. In a sense, they are trying to destroy Josephli with dams in the main body, with HESS on the flanks, with hydropower plants, and then with mines on the back. We say that a man of Joseph is a man of honor, a man of Joseph is an honest man, the purest man of Turkey, my dear friends. Go, look, there's no prison, there's no theft, there's no problem, there's no fight, there's no fight, there's no problem, my dear friends. One of our most beautiful places, one of our most beautiful people. We say, "Let us not do this injustice to Joseph, my dear friends. Let's get rid of this problem with the settlement, and let the government take the necessary steps here. We've been waiting seven years, look, my dear friends, seven years, eight years. On this matter, I, Artvin, have to share with you from here. There's another fact: publicization. And I'd like to tell you about the fact that it's publicization. My dear friends, go all the way to Turkey, it is a land real estate regarding nationalisation. The land is real estate all over Turkey, but the land is real estate in Yusufeli. I'll tell you why it's real estate, my dear friends. There are 300 acres and 400 acres of land for one man in the plains of hosts. Do you know how much land falls in Josephi, when tomorrow is a day of publicisation? There are seven shareholders in one acres, 15 shareholders in two acres. I mean, do you know how many square feet per person goes? 500 square feet, 200 square meters falling, my dear friends. Go today, and look at the prices of square meters in those narrow patterns of the Legislative Law. The land is worth 48 thousand liras, 52 thousand liras, 60 to 70 thousand liras. It's worth $60 million when you hit the turn, my dear friends. Now, when you divide it per person by the old money -- when you divide it with the money you have today -- you get $7,000 per person, $10,000 per family. With these, it is impossible for these people to take these coins and provide them with residential facilities elsewhere, to try to heal themselves elsewhere. In that sense, only outside the framework of the narrow patterns of the Publicisation Act should a special law be passed, dear friends of Joseph. Why? Because Yusufeli is in a sense sacrificing himself to Turkey. We say to those people, "Al, take one city with all your dreams, with all your memories, with all your experiences, and send it somewhere else." Think of a city, my dear friends, when there was none of it -- and I've lived a long time -- did you see a family dig up those graves, dig up her mother, her father, her grandparents, put her in a bag and bury her in the ground with the conquerors somewhere else, my dear friends? If he were anywhere else, there'd be hell to pay, but what's our people doing, Artvinians? If these are necessary for the state, we never argue, we never discuss the interests of this country, it is upon our heads. He says, "But he also expects attention from the state, give me a hand," says Yusufeli, dear friends of mine. He says, "Give me a hand." In that sense, I would like to address here, in the great Parliament -- and in a moment, my Artvin MP will talk about it -- as soon as possible, we would like these issues of publicisation to be resolved. If there is a problem with the settlement, if there is any hesitation about it, let's set up a research commission in Parliament; what is this problem, why is this problem, why is it not stuck here, let's all go to it, let's go to it together, let's do some research, my dear friends, about where the problem with Yusufeli is coming from. Look, the tradesman has serious problems. Today, the tradesman in Yusufeli is moaning, my dear friends, especially under the clamps of the great mall. If we don't make an arrangement for the tradesman, we won't find any tradesmen to go to the new settlement at Yusufeli. So, look, we're completely destroying a county, and many years later, a first valued friend of mine in Turkey, 17 villages and a huge district, we call your soul El Fatiha, my dear friends. Therefore, there is a expectation from Parliament, from the government -- I told you in my speech in Yusufeli -- that says Yusufeli, "Show me one percent of your interest in the government. " In that sense, about the coming period, my dear friends from Joseph and Joseph are buried alive in a sense. Look, last time I spoke to Parliament, I brought a coffin here; some of my friends were disturbed; I took it away, and put it in the order of the government, my dear friends. Last week, I took that coffin, and I took it, and I took it, and I brought it to Yusufeli in a tea, and I said to him, "We will destroy the city if we throw it away." So, what we expect from the government is that you show us this interest and concern. If we don't want to destroy a city with all its memories, with all its dreams, as I mentioned earlier, let's not victimize the people of that city, my dear friends. Look, Yusufeli says that if the government wants something from me, it's on my head. But while we're destroying that city, let's take care of the victims, dear friends. If we don't undo the sacrifices, there will be no more Joseph, and Joseph is lost. If we want to keep this beautiful city, this beautiful town together in the coming days, I say we give it to Yusufeli and Yusufeli, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0049par0046	Thank you. It's Iron Steel, Mud MP who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0050par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the dam on Yusufeli. I salute you all with respect and love. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the ambition to continue to consume our ecosystem, which we humans are part of, as our own property, leads to power and profit. It's an ambition that leads to power and profit, that destroys the fabric of society as well as the fabric of the ecosystem, that destroys the fabric of the ecosystem, that darkens our future, which has taken this ambition from the male sovereign society for 6,000 years, steals our nature, our future, and continues to steal it. Imagine, like Yusufeli, a town that considers life as a musical musical, including the Caucasus dances, zurna, overalls, accordion, and the town, with about 20 villages, but with its fluorine, fauna, the rich East Black Sea mountains, and the dams that are meant to be built in the midst of these mountains, as if they had a problem with energy, and they had a sense that we needed dams to make that problem. That's not entirely true. Is this energy we're talking about? With renewable energy sources such as the sun, wind, water, and geothermal, we can reach the tools, mechanisms, which have the energy potential we need before we destroy our nature, our nature, our ecosystem, to satisfy the light, the travel, but there's a misdirection that has carried out the recklessness of destroying our nature, our vegetation, our diversity. Starting with the Keban Dam, we are not content with Karakaya, Ataturk, and Hirfanite, but with Ilisu, or Josepheli, or the Black Sea, or the peaks of the Mediterranean, or the mountains of the East, and thousands of hydropower plants that are associated with them, the regions are being dehumanized, they are being dehumanized, they are being poored, they are being subjected to the system, they are being subjected to the power that holds the system, the power that holds it. It's being amended by its assimilationist policies, and it's being banished to the metropolitan areas of the dominant culture, the dominant faith, the rule of the sovereign religion. There is a poem by Nazim Hikmet, a poem by the name of the traitor. If you bring everything in, condemn it to the anti-responsive, anti-controversial policies of power, if you try to perceive, interpret everything with this enemy law, and seek a solution, the object itself will rot. In order to maintain his rule, the government will accuse those who object, make noise, seek rights, cut, political thoughts of treason, the line of treason, so that they will not touch his power -- in order to make it illegal. If it's your country, your farms, Homeland, starving to death at the height of the chassis, If your homeland, your safe deposit boxes, and the checks you can't fit into your safe deposit boxes, If the country is your factories, Yes, I'm a traitor. We can't just call him a traitor. Yusufli, yes, a place where the ancient people of ancient geography lived. But by determining that Yusufeli is not a traitor, you will cause the subject to be a traitor to others, and you will be void of the rule of power which you object to here. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, anyone who has the right to live above 780,000 square kilometers has the right to speak, express ideas, express opinions about the future of this country, the past and the future of this country. We lose when we don't provide this, we don't tolerate different, and we insist on other policies. Just as we have lost our diversity, our vegetation, as we have lost the East Anatolian, the East Black Sea, a power that wants to humanize the West Black Sea, to bring them all to Istanbul, to take them all under control, and instead of confronting the reality of a country under which the rule of power reigns, it still does no good to anyone if we discredit what is different from the one-type policy and what is in search of the 1920s. Yusufeli may be Turk, Yusufeli may have the Kafkas, he may have the faith of Yusufli, he may have the religion, he may have the identity, he may have the ethics, but if our fight concerns 78 million people, our fight concerns everyone who lives in 780,000 square kilometers, in this fight, it is necessary to see everyone in this struggle with an equal, free citizen understanding, to approach. In this framework, it is necessary to defy the global and regional financial institutions of the AKP's power, against its understanding, its politics, its mentality, which attracts nature, our mountains, our rivers. By failing to compare him, we will grease the bread of the AKP if we prioritize Ilisu (Ilisu), or Yusuf (Joseph), or Çoruh (Jonah), or Tortum (Tortum), or Refuge (Rirming), or whatever is done. It's about resisting power's unrestricted practices, which serve profit and power, to protect our future, our future, our future, which we have entrusted to our children and grandchildren, our nature, our ecosystem. When we cannot share the values of this Milky Way, this Milky Way, and the land in which we live, historical, cultural, political, social, economic values, when we do not attempt to share them with common reflex, those who take advantage of our separatism, our dissociative position will always take advantage of our segregation, our differential situation. Therefore, it is the duty of all those who live in Turkey to maintain the human potential, plant potential, animal diversity, the potential of a country that has 36 ethnic identities together, as well as many beliefs, with the diversity of plants, and the diversity of animals, as well as the latitude and longitude of all things. As I think left, as I believe in democratic politics, another may be doing this mission by thinking right, another nationalist, liberal, or conservative. Instead of looking for opposition here, democracy, peace, freedoms approach our problems in their minimum partnerships, in which we respect the life of everyone in the democratic common country of the country as equal, free citizens, and we are the winners. But instead, if we remain in a position where we act from separate postures to show our own sensitivity and try not to see the other, we will have no other task but to meet the needs of the weak, the poor, the hope that our population is struggling in poverty, the democratic politics, and that we can't find a cure and solution. If we object to one man, monotheism, it is the duty of the legislature, more than anyone, to determine that we are a part of nature, which is the function of multiplication and diversity, that society itself is a part of it, that society itself is a part of it, that it is the duty of the legislature to act on a social, political stability that corresponds to this multiplication and diversity. In this framework, we politicians, the rulers of democratic politics, the decisionmakers, the politicians, say that we should remain in a position to respect our values, our political ideas, as we oppose the plundering of our nature, the destruction of our ecosystem.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0051par0066	Thank you. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0052par0070	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the views of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Republican People's Party group's proposal. I salute your high council. Deliberate lawmakers are being moved to the town's headquarters due to dams and hydropower plants to the Çoruh basin in Yusufeli district of Artvin. If you ask, which of Turkey's most victimized districts is it? The people who know will surely say, "Yusufeli" (Yusufeli). Yusufeli was founded in 1879 on the banner of Erzurum, the district's capital is called Öğdem. Ten years later, he moved to Kılıçkaya, where he was relocated to Öğdem in 1926. In 1933, when Artvin became the district of Erzurum, Yusufeli was reconnected to the province of Çoruh, which was founded in 1936 as Artvin, and was relocated to his place in 1950. Dear Regents, even as I share these transfer information with you, I believe that I and you have become dizzy, imagine our brothers living there. Nomadic is almost finished in Anatolia, but in Yusufeli, human life is built on nomadic; culture continues, the indispensable destiny of the district. As of today, the district's headquarters are being re-changed. For those of you who have not seen Joseph, let me make this brief. It is located on a hilly, bumpy terrain about 104 kilometers from the province's centre, the largest residential district in Artvin. Local population's about 6,000. In 1962, a series of dams and HES were launched in this region. A total of 27 dams and HES have been decided to build 10 on the Chorus River and 17 on its flanks. When these plants are finished, 10.3 billion kilowatts of electricity will be produced. Eight per cent of Turkey's total energy needs and 34 per cent of its energy from hydropower plants. The county moved because of the Yusufeli Dam. It will collect 2 billion cubic metres of water within 34 square kilometers. After the Deeper Dam, the dam that produces the most energy in the region will be the Josephite Dam. It's a very important investment for the country. Changing the county headquarters may seem like a common thing to some people. We expressed Joseph's problems on the bench in the 23rd term as the National Movement Party, on 16 April 2008. In fact, with the commission of our Mr. President, we went all the way to Yusufeli, where we were with our esteemed citizens of Joseph. The people of the district are, in fact, a town of decent, decent, decent people who live in its homeland, its nation. They never intend to interfere with this huge investment for Turkey. As usual, we are ready for sacrifice for our country once again. They say, "But we expect our government to see our great sacrifice and extend its warm hand to the region." They also express their expectations. They're right to the end. In 2008, we submitted a motion as the National Movement Party. There are provinces, such as Maras, which have been honored by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for their great service to country defences, such as Antwerp. We wanted a medal of honor for their sacrifice by the House, such as Yusufeli, who contributed to the development of the country, the great sacrifices. We said, "Let their hearts be taken, let them be made lawful, let the government and the nation be praised here." Unfortunately, we did not receive support from the AKP Group, including the AKP MP of the period. This sacrifice is not just material sacrifices. They are somehow affordable dear friends, but the town center has already been constantly changed, and once again, by changing the center of Yusufeli, you're actually disassociating from the past and memory of the residents. We are a town without the graves of their ancestors, their grandfathers. There's no graves left for us to visit on holiday, no horse pits left. We can't even show our kids our childhood, our streets, our homes. We look like lotus blossoms floating on water. They said with sadness. This devoted county has expectations of our Parliament and your government, and they need to be met immediately, with everything left to one side. In terms of the victims of the county, I think it's enough to say that this project has flooded 17 villages and 42 neighborhoods of all homes and land. Moreover, the fact that thousands of people who would be affected by this investment in this project have been struck down without even consent is another heart fire. Many cases have been filed concerning the operations of the administration, and almost all of them have resulted in decisions that justified Yusufeli. But, as I said, since Josepheli had no idea of stopping this huge investment, stopping it, he has always been understanding, patient with his state, but the fact that there was nothing wrong with the state must be done for him: two and a half years after the foundation of the dam has been established, we will build the dam. Although it has been 17 years since it has been said. As the dam progress of the people of Yusufeli has not been done for his country, there is no shame on the people of Yusufeli. The Yusufs are shouting their system so the AKP can hear the government. After all this time, the walls came out, but even though the cabinet was Josephili's minister, they couldn't get their screams to the AKP government. In 2002, we set up a delegation in the district and sent it to Ankara to explain our problems. Within three days, all party heads, including the President, were visited and returned to headquarters. Now, we can't even talk to their representative here, the governor and the county managers. What kind of indifference is that? Our voice, be our cry. They're calling on the Parliament, the MPs. Look what our fellow citizens of Yusufeli want: First of all, they require the public to be informed of this project and to be informed of their contributions and consent and to be asked their opinion in the decisions that will be made after this. They want to start the construction of the new county center and its villages immediately. They consider it necessary to take into account the demands of the Josephites, such as the house for those who want it, and the land for those who want it. The dwellings in the city centre must be given for free. They call the rights owners. The land of Joseph is small but precious. Mr. Uður just told me. They want to make purchases with real value before they go to court. They wish to continue using their existing homes and properties until the project is finished. They also demand that they be given free dwellings for their countrymen, who will leave Joseph and migrate to other cities. The shopkeeper loses his client and trade portfolio. Over the course of Turkey, the tradesman is already in trouble, but the tradesman of Yusufeli is now pushing the limits of takatin. Therefore, they desire the farmer's bank loans to be restructured, interest-free loans to build new jobs, and grants, aid and capital support as they leave the district. They expect the county to be supported by social projects to address any sociopsychological problems that could lead to dissociative discrimination over the region's people. They want new roads to be done immediately and according to modern standards. They're building new forest cadastros, waiting for large agricultural land to be kept and thus supported by agriculture. They want industry, but especially agricultural industry, to be encouraged, to be brought to the new settlement. Dear friends, these demands, especially given the sacrifices of the Yusufians, are truly capable of doing so for the Republic of Turkey, not a thousand camels. The state, which spent billions of dollars on 2 million Syrian immigrants, must also take care of the Yusufites who have written the history of sacrifices for years. As the National Movement Party, we want Joseph's financial, spiritual support, and we say that we will support the government's support projects with a political understanding. No, as he has done so far, if he will spare the citizens of another country from the Yusufites, I remind him once again that our hands are on both sides of the AKP government and our breath is on his back, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0053par0085	Thank you. It's the Israeli Barrack, Artvin MP who wants to take a stand against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0054par0089	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the opinion of the EC PARTY regarding the Republican People's Party's motion to set up a research commission on Yusufeli's new settlement. I salute you all. In fact, we are grateful to the people of Joseph as a state, as a nation. With all its history, with all its memories, a town under water, the country's economy, the country's need for energy, really, the people of Yusufeli, with dignity, with dignity, with great sacrifice, without hesitation at the point of the dam here, he said yes, he didn't have the slightest reaction. Of course, promises were made at all levels, both as a state and as a nation, not as victims of the people of Joseph. And hopefully, we're all following those words with the governor, the mayor, the governor, the MP. Of course, it requires serious infrastructure, kitchen work, the removal of a county and the construction of a new county. Today, of course, we all understand the reactions of Yusufeli's people at this point of uncertainty, but you do realize that sometimes when you're in the darkest place, it's when you're closest to the light. Now, as a result of this motion, I feel the joy of informing both the opposition and the public and the people of Joseph. My dear brothers and sisters, the new settlement was cleared by the law issued in Yusufeli in 2008, but the dam did not begin in 2008, the foundation of 2013 was laid in February. So it was a matter of hesitation whether or not the dam was built for a long time. It's been two years since the dam was laid. Now, within these two years, the projects of the roads, about 70km of roads that would be flooded on the route of Yusufeli and Erzurum -- you know the geographical conditions in Joseph -- were a road discovery that cost close to 1 quadrillion. In that regard -- just last night, our Finance Minister signed the YPK decision -- the YPK decision had to be issued, and soon, hopefully, within a month, he's going to be making highways, road tenders. This is a very, very important issue for infrastructure, and that's the point. The tender for this 70km road route, approximately 1 quadrillion, will be held as soon as possible. Of course, the nazim zoning plans for this new settlement were completed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and plans for nastiness dropped on 24/10/2014. According to Nazi plans, projects related to the TİKİ's infrastructure projects were completed by the Ascension Project, the sewers, water, all infrastructure investments, last Friday (March 13th), signed by TOKI to the DSI General Directorate in order to draw the infrastructure projects from the DSI General Directorate, and will now make the above structures between the DSI and TOKI, making subsidiary investments DSI. The DSI is here to prevent time loss over the next three months during the tender, and they've started their own work on fixing the area for these infrastructure projects, which are now actually designed for these development plans, so that we don't lose the time of this three-month tender. Infrastructure investments are extremely important to us. All projects have arrived at the DSI General Directorate. Hopefully this will be in April, and in three months' time, he'll have to be auctioned off and started investing in this infrastructure by the contractor. Of course, the price of the people of Joseph, as Uður Bey said, is in a land that is scarce. We expect both public institutions and courts and the DSI to have a positive discrimination against Yusufeli. In this regard, the DSI is also at a maximum point in keeping prices high. Personally, all of you of Joseph's people are people who don't demand what they don't deserve -- I'm sure they won't demand what they don't have, and I don't believe that our government will spare what is rightfully ours, I hope, won't. Here, a solution will be understood in the nationalization of the people of Joseph. Let me also inform you: Of course, we were underprivileged to have the right to the new settlement of Joseph. In that regard, on 11/9/2014, we passed a special law for Josephi, adding a temporary 8th article to the House Law. It was a law that authorized the Council of Ministers to facilitate rights here, and on the other hand, the rights of villagers in the town center where we can't find new settlements... because the village is leaving, but when you can't find a new place to move that village, the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision that allows it to be entitled to its rights in the district center is now being taken from the ministers, and only the Ministry of Finance's opinion is expected. Hopefully, as soon as the Council of Ministers' decision is issued, the doubts about the rights of the Yusufeli people will be resolved. Within a month of these uncertainties, I hope, will be overcome, and the righteous unrest of the people of Joseph will, hopefully, come to an end. In fact, we've been keeping a tight eye on the matter. This is the TOKI, the DSI, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and all institutions that are coordinated under the co-ordination of the DSI. I know that the people of Joseph believe in it from the heart. Hopefully, in a month, we'll have a briefing with all the public institutions, and we'll be able to eliminate that uncertainty. I salute everyone again with respect and respect. Of course, the legislature's work is important, and there are laws to be reached.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0055par0098	Congressman, don't make that statement as Acting Artvin.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0054par0099	I don't see the need for such a research commission at this stage. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0056par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0057par0103	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit02spe0056par0104	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0056par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. We're moving on to "Works to Be On Special Agenda" on the agenda. We will begin talks on the opening of a genesor on Food, Agriculture and Animal Minister Mehdi Eker (11/49), claiming that Peoples' Democratic Party Group President Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan had reached the end zone of the Animal and Agriculture Sector. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been published and read in the 77th Union of the General Assembly, dated 16/3/2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to one member of the motion holders, one MP on behalf of political party groups and one minister on behalf of the Prime Minister or 1 minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I read the names of the members of the following members: Proposed owner Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır MP; Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP on behalf of the People's Party Group; Halil Aksoy on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Gökhan Morning on behalf of the People's Party Group; Ankara MP on behalf of Justice and Development Party; Mehmet Erdoğan, Adıyaman MP; Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Agriculture and Animalism on behalf of the government. Now, the motion goes to Nursel Aydoğan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0058par0016	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party, HDP, on the behalf of Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. First of all, I salute the House. Honourable MPs were made on 24 January 1980, at the Prime Minister's Office of Süleyman Demirel's Nationalist Front Government, Turgut Özal, who was then Undersecretary of State Planning, and publicly known as the January 24th Decisions, aimed at liberalising Turkey's economy. These decisions are the consolidation of the neoliberal policies of imperial capitalist forces to less developed countries by the IMF and the World Bank. So from the beginning of the 1980s, Turkey is shaped according to the interests of international capital, led by the IMF and World Bank. The essence of January 24th Decisions is to ensure integration into the capitalist globalisation process. In fact, on December 9, 1999, the letter of intent to the IMF stated that this model would be carried out. A report by the World Bank in 1998 drew the framework for agricultural reform between 2000 and 2008. In this report: The price of agricultural products must be reduced to the level of world prices. 2) Price support must be removed. 3) Direct income support must be entered into the system. 4) Fertilizer and credit subsidies must be terminated. 5) The privileges of agricultural cooperatives must be removed. 6) Agricultural public economics needs privatisation. These suggestions were included in the IMF report on December 9, 1999 and the World Bank's development policy report on March 10, 2000. The IMF and the World Bank's attempts to shape Turkey's agricultural policy actually go back fifty-sixty years, but we can say that the most destructive was the structural transformation program, which was run in 2000 and 2008, under the Agricultural Reform Implementation Project. With direct income support from the AKP's ruling period, agricultural production-responsibility balances have been turned upside down, and a passive peasant population has been created. With this programme, institutions that support agriculture and provide technology have been privatized, purged; agricultural sales cooperatives have been weakened, dysfunctional, and liquidation conditions have been created. In 2010, the Basin Production Support Model was replaced by the Direct Income Support System. This model would provide premium support for the products, but the model based on the amount of the reported product, brought large support to the owners of the land, such as its direct income support. The IMF and the World Bank have begun to come to light with devastating consequences for the blindfolded implementation of liquidation programmes. Agriculture's share in the general economy is steadily diminishing, and agriculture's share in employment has declined, and many agricultural products, particularly wheat, have fallen behind in increasing consumer prices. The growing population rate in the last decade has not increased production in agricultural products, on the contrary, agricultural fields have decreased, causing production to decline in agricultural products. Due to false policies, the total animal presence has been reduced by 4-5 million heads, and the import of red meat has also begun. In Turkey, a country of agriculture and livestock, we have witnessed that even sacrificial sheep have been imported. This process has led to a decrease in farmer's income and poverty. As a result, problems such as unemployment, poverty, and migration have been accepted in the 2012 Year Programme. It also makes it clear to us that policies are taking farmers out of agriculture. Dear lawmakers, there are 7.8 million farmers who support agriculture in 2000. At the end of 2011, unfortunately, that number was reduced to 6.1 million people. So about 2.5 million people have stopped farming. In 2000, agriculture's share in employment was 36 per cent, while at the end of 2011, it dropped to 25.5 per cent. Much of the farmers have been defeated by inflation and have not yet received their share of privatisation, and in the purchases made by KİSCE and agricultural troops, their product prices have fallen under inflation. In the early 1980s, Turkey, in a self-sufficient state, was sadly lost and became an importer. Turkey, which has become a country that imports oiled seeds, has also become an importer of herbal raw oil, cotton and wheat. Because the international system envisions developing countries, such as Turkey, specialise in green fruits, and developed countries in industrial plants, grain. In 2011, imports of agricultural products broke the record of republican history. In 2011, $17.6 billion was imported, and exported at $15.3 billion. The lack of growth in product prices, however, has made Turkey dependent on imports in wheat, a period of drought, with rising prices of diesel and fertilizer growing day after day. Over 20 million tons of wheat have been imported in the last ten to twelve years. It's the same thing with corn, tripods and cotton. Turkey has become the country that imports second-largest cotton after China. In Turkey, plant fat production meets only 30 per cent of the need, because in the last decade, a total of 2.5 million hectares of agriculture has been reduced. In this period, farmers have unfortunately stopped processing 3.3 million hectares of land. Turkey, which exported barley until the 2000s, fell into a position that imports barley today. In 1988, the production of 22 million tonnes of sugar beets was unfortunately reduced to 16 million tonnes in 2012. Again, there is a 10% decline in potato production. The withdrawal from TEKEL's acquisition of support, the transfer of to the chartered production system, was almost a disaster for tobacconism. Turkey's farmer, who produced the world's finest Shark tobacco, was quickly removed from production. In the 1990s, valuable friends were forced to migrate to Turkish metropolitan areas, where around 4 million people who were providing their livelihood with agriculture and animalism as a result of policies by those who wanted to end the Kurdish problem by military means. With the bans on the crossbow, animalism was almost complete, and from the beginning of the 2000s, agriculture and animalism throughout Turkey came to an end due to neoliberal policies in agriculture. In his village, he continues to migrate to large metropolitan areas, particularly Istanbul and İzmir, to find work and to support young people, especially the farmers who find it difficult to feed in the town. It would be best for us for Turkey's future if the AKP government, which has not achieved its level in industrialisation, develops production-based policies to put Turkey's economy on stronger foundations. If the government continues to implement neoliberal policies in agriculture, there will be more disruptions in agriculture, in livestock than in production. Although objections to the system are cut off from the production of people, we must never forget the expression "hungry" that hunger has cashed out. Currently in Turkey, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy explained, 6 million people receive social aid is not because of the government's strength, but because poverty, poverty, and unemployment are increasing day by day. Again, everyone in Turkey needs to know very well that social aid is not for those in need; it is because there will be serious social action when no help is done; it is to prevent social action. But we think that the continuation of the policy of removing people from production, from their land, from their village, will double the number of more than 6 million (also) as soon as possible. Therefore, I say we invite the government to abandon these social policies that depend on it and to implement a new economic model based on production. I salute the entire House with these thoughts again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0059par0045	Thank you. It's Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0060par0049	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the request to open a gene for the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is a strategic sector of vital importance to every country, regardless of its level of development. Developmental countries, which understand the strategic importance of agriculture and its indistinguishability for all mankind, view and support agricultural sectors socially and economically. In the 13-year AKP administration, the main problems of our country's agriculture have been unresolved, but the problems have gotten deeper and bigger. The government of the AKP has also grown insensitive, and farmers have become in need of government supplies at the end of 13 years. In Turkey, agricultural input costs continue to be the most important issue of the world's prices. The Turkish farmer uses the world's highest priced diesel, fertilizer, seed and medicine, although his product is not valued. Even today, about agricultural input prices, it happens to the farmer who opens his mouth every time Mr. President opens his mouth. The Prime Minister, who has not had problems with his appointed ministers and bureaucrats for thirteen years, suddenly became President, we were deceived. ▪ The rates are high. He goes into polymics, saying, "The interest is high." Every time he talks, the price of agricultural inputs based on imports is doubled. It's actually the Turkish farmer who manufactures the most expensive input costs in the world. Turkey's lira has been devaluated with consulting pollen in dollars, and its bill has been raised to the Turkish farmer at every stage from production to consumption. The farmer has become poor, and the cost of production has increased. Mr Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and our farmer, who have been waiting for him to keep that promise, are unfortunately disappointed. A total support for agriculture is the tax from the farmer, who boasts that the sailors have brought down the diesel of luxury yachts and increased its support for agriculture at every opportunity. The AKP has not reached the amount of support required by its Agricultural Law in nine years, and as a result of its failure to comply with this law, the amount of support paid to our farmer was 44 billion liras, or 44 quadrillion liras, with old money. Again, during the thirteen-year period of AKP power, our farmer was crushed by inflation, the increase in product prices was behind inflation, and only wheat producers lost 16 quadrillion liras. So, in two pens, when you collect the loss of its loss against inflation, it's about 60 quadrillion dollars in just two pens, the loss of the Turkish farmer during the 13-year AKP rule. Dear MPs, despite the pink paintings drawn by Mr. Minister and AKP officials, the facts in Turkish agriculture are not pleasant. During the AKP's rule, agriculture dropped its contribution to illegal domestic product. Our exports of agricultural raw materials cannot afford agricultural raw materials imports. Planted agricultural land, land is reduced, agricultural land has been abandoned. Our villages have been emptied, our farmer's income has been reduced year after year, agricultural input prices have increased year after year, and our farmer has been dragged into debt. Mr. Minister and AKP spokesman claim that agriculture has improved a lot at every turn. I'm asking, for God's sake, lawmakers, is there a country that imports grass, hay, sacrifice, and grows livestock?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0061par0058	There's Turkey!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0060par0059	It is an assessment for those who view agriculture as a knight to agriculture, agriculture, farming, farming, and farming, to the farmers, to say that agriculture has flourished in an environment where lettuce is imported from the United States, nuts from Chile, apples from Chile, pomegranates from Bulgaria, garlic and beans from China, lentils from Canada, lentils from Canada, watermelons and cabbages from Iran, lettuce from Spain, lettuce from Spain, and lettuce from Spain. The constant privatisation of the inputs has left our animalism dying. After all, the AKP, which destroyed our animal production, found the solution in importing animals. During the Minister's time, for the first time in the history of the Republic, we have imported sacrifices two years in a row. But it was not enough for them, and We made for them a grain (of straw). In recent years, we face a major crisis every three or four years, especially since red meat has not been produced a permanent solution to problems. Moreover, learning from these crises is given the opportunity to turn to supporters instead of taking long-term measures, to the farmer, the consumer. After 16 years, we imported live animals and meat, and "There is enough food in our country, importing is not the answer." So, very soon after he had made a valid determination, he had to allow and contradict himself with the directives of the European Union and with instructions of the Prime Minister of the era, Mr. Secretary of State, to import meat. Since problems were not well and permanent solutions were not produced, the meat did not cheapen despite imports. So it didn't work for the manufacturer, it didn't work for the consumer; you ruined the manufacturer, and the consumer can't eat cheap meat. Because of the import of live animals and meat, $3 billion has been transferred to foreign farmers. AKP's animalism policies have been nothing more than supporting foreign animal producers, breeders. It's no different than red meat in herbal production and bacliadas. While the world's most quality, delicious green lentil is produced in Yozgat, due to the wrong agricultural policies, Yozgatli consumes imported lentils from Canada, which was sent to test for "Acaba" years ago today. It's called agricultural policy, and because of AKP's agricultural policies, which have only imports in its mind, the production of groceries has also been based on imports. The farmer can't sow his field, he can't reap what he sows. Since the AKP took over, about 3 million hectares have been out of agriculture. The farmer can't go to his field because he can't put diesel in his tractor. Today, our farmer does not own his field, his garden, his greenhouse, his precious deputies, the banks that own the field, the garden, the greenhouse, unfortunately. The wrong agricultural policies that have been implemented, aside from the lack of support, are being announced too late and paid too late, and the difference between the production cost and the price of the product is growing against the farmer, so it's getting harder and harder to produce farmers who can't get in with their product. Today, our farmer learns what kind of support he will receive after planting his crops. A support programme in accordance with world markets and Turkey's requirements is not being implemented. About nine months after selling the farmer's crop, the Yozgat farmer's premiums still haven't been paid. Furthermore, the agricultural bank's cutbacks are not inexplicable in every payment made by the farmer who received money once or twice a year. Dear lawmakers, we can't be satisfied without farmers, we can't feed without agriculture. If it is cooked in the kitchen that is sown in the field, and is eaten at the table that is planted in the field, then surely the credit for it is in our farmer's hands, who sweats his land. Earth is the home of fertility, the home of civilization and cultures. Farming is the rightful pride of a priceless profession, a struggle, a sacrifice. It's our farmers who are proud to serve their nation with their callous hands, their sunlit faces, their sad faces, some day, some day hopeful eyes. Our farmers, who are now sipping tea in a gloomy mood in the village coffee, have heavy issues. Our farmers, who are now at home thinking about their debt and feel the pain of handing over this year's blend to their debt, are in great distress. Despite all the hard work and hard work of our brothers, whose brains boil in the summer heat, their cauldrons are broken, and their pockets empty. If the AKP, who pursued the plains, the grasslands, and the meadows, were to be born a goat in a net, it would be finished in the plains. He has caused us to forget our proverbs, and has plotted against our livestock. Our farmers are troubled, sighing deeply, sighing deeply. Even if our farmers produce it, it's in debt, and if it does, it doesn't pay. Our farmer, the loan team, removes debt and interest. Twelve months of the year has turned into a landfall for our farmer. Twelve months of the year, trouble and loss for our farmer. Thirteen years of AKP power left our farmer alone, condemned to poverty and misery. Today, there is sadness in villages. The unrest, lack of livelihood, lack of income, enormous problems, burdens of debt have been placed in every village, every village, every village. The tractors are working for nothing. What's left of that? The reaper will be returned to the loan shark, the broker, and the banks. All that remains is sadness and shame from the seed that is scattered with the food. And the gardens and the treasuries, and the abundance of the gardens, are devoid of all joy. The AKP has failed the farmer. The AKP has turned its back on the farmer. As for the fugitive and the dark palace, the network of thieves that swing trillions and hide millions of dollars in shoe boxes, when it comes to farmers, let the earth feed you. It's small enough to say, "Go away, your mother." Now I share these comparisons with you, and I offer the state and suffering of our farmers to all of us, to all of us, to all of us. The price of wheat was 2.7 times the price of corn, 2.4 times the price of sunflowers, 2.5 times the price of dried beans, and 1.5 times the price of cotton compared to 2002. In 2002, one bagel can be bought with 660 grams of wheat, and 1 bagel can be bought with 1 kilo 200 grams of wheat. Again, 1 litre of diesel can be bought in 2002 with 3 kilograms of wheat, while 1 litre of diesel is hard to get today with 6 kilograms of wheat as a result of over 13 years. Dear lawmakers, our country now imports many agricultural products, much less exports. Indeed, it is a reminder that we will not be able to feed ourselves. According to 2002, today, when we look at imports, wheat 3.1 times, barley 11.7 times, dry beans 1.5 times, red lentils -- 1,234 times, chickpea 834 times, sugar 13 times, sunflower 6.7 times. In the early 2000s, when we had 7,800,000 citizens who had brought their bread out of agriculture and provided alimony, that number had melted over the years and dropped to 6 million. As a matter of fact, about 2 million of us have left farming and had to leave their land and their fields. In Yozgat alone, an average of 12,000 people leave the father's furnace each year. I address wise men who invite Europeans to work for Turkey: our couple is miserable, our farmer is a victim. You found work for our farmer's unemployed, unmarried children who can't afford to bring home their own bread, and now it's time for the European unemployed? The victim is in the fields, in the villages, on the plateaus, and in the deserts; and the victim is in the eyes of the orphans, and in the eyes of the unborn. The victim is not Recep, but Recep in the palace, but Recep in the field is a victim. The victim is not a bunch of upstart kids who sleep in villas and get up on hoses; they're farmers' children, engineers you don't hire, technicians, economists. The smuggler is not Reza of Yozgat, but Reza of Yozgat is a victim; the corrupt ministers are victims of millions of people who have been frozen in the cold of poverty, who have remained in the darkness of unemployment. As for the people who say, "No." As for other geography, be sure that this power, which goes to waste and scolds when our farmer asks for it, has no place to sleep, no place to run. The Turkish farmer sees them and does his calculations accordingly. He's tried the AKP, recognized the AKP, and is prepared to ask for an account. The farmer was defeated by mazota, condemned to fertilizer and other crop costs. Agriculture policies are against our farmers. The Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has already cut ties with the farmer by undressing as a night watchman in the process of treason. The nightmares have fallen on the villages, the creditors, the bonds, the foreclosures, and the executions are in line. Even teas in coffees are blended credits. Sunday baskets go empty, they come empty. Not on top, not at first. Our farmers are two folds, so to speak, carrying a lot of water. The account at home doesn't fit the head in the field. The debt is up to the throat. If we look at number 1 in the 17-25 December process, the farmer is unnecessary and therefore ignored. The thieves are involved in the blending, the corruption gangs are flocking to the fields. He produced farmers, corrupts ate them; the farmer planted them, and he ran a 17-25 lobby. In spite of our farmer's troubles, Mr. Secretary of State who is singing songs and singing songs in Diyarbakir, who is in Kurdish, I'm sure he will pray for the farmer in places and languages we don't know about. In spite of all that, our farmer's hope is the nationalist Movement Party, the nation and the patriot, the farmer and the peasant advocate. We're with the peasant, we're behind the farmer, we're aware of every issue; we're aware of tax, interest and increase. The solution for wheat's money is the National Movement Party. The recipe for resuscitation during the 13-year AKP ruling period in the agricultural field is at the National Movement Party. It is the National Movement Party's hope to expand the narrowing fields, to increase efficiency in agriculture. The plan and programme for lowering gas prices, fertilizer and other heavy costs is at the National Movement Party. We're here to support our farmers. We march to power to make our villages beautiful, to make a valley of plenty. We struggle to give good news to our tiny children who have torn shoes and run to school with their patched aprons and eat dry bread. We serve and serve the entire Turkish nation. We're ambitious, we're successful, we're ready to rule Turkey. On June 7th, Turkey will be wiped out of its dead soil, and the Turkish nation will be reborn again with three crescents. Your wife won't be satisfied with the jar, there won't be a future with the AKP, and our farmer knows it. Everyone should know clearly that we are going to build against the import lobby and its servants, we are going to support the Turkish farmer out of spite, we are going to give more support. The gazebo on the foot of the farmer AKP is the head of the National Movement Party. Farmer AKP's toy is the honor of the National Movement Party. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the grand jury once again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0062par0091	Thank you. Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0063par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion for the geneorization of Mr. Mehdi Eker, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, before I start speaking, I'd like to point out that there are also prisons on the agenda. In Manisa Type T Prison, a friend of ours, Abdullah Akgun, died four days ago. Abdullah Akgun, our friend, has already declared his illness earlier in the evening, and the administration is starting to care for him at the request of his friends. Sadly, from the moment the attention began, an effort to avoid it also demonstrates itself. After all, Abdullah Akgün asked him for 50 Turkish liras to take his friend from prison to the hospital, but Abdullah Akgün has no $50 in his pocket or $50 in his account, so they don't take him to the hospital. But in one speech, the Minister of Justice said that there was an ambulance in prisons, that he was a doctor, that he was a infirmary, that his patients were well taken care of, et cetera. But let's say there's none of this, the hospital has ambulances, the prison couldn't have called this ambulance and taken it away? He could have, no doubt. Obviously, the position of the prison, the attitude of the prisons, has exceeded negligence, has become an intention. This does not only apply to the Type T Prison in Manisa, but to almost all other prisons in Turkey. After all, patients in prisons... we're dealing with a human problem. Because of our responsibilities to them, it is imperative, therefore, that we be involved with these patients in prisons. On the other hand, in this case of death, there is a intention, and there must be some research on the perpetrators. Therefore, I ask the deceased for mercy from God, and patience from his family, and from his friends. Precious lawmakers are now liquidating small and medium-sized enterprises under world-sized agricultural policies. Instead, the model of industrial agriculture and contracted manufacturing, imposed by multinational agriculture, food companies. In this way, agricultural inputs such as seeds, medicines and fertilizers, produced or marketed by multinational companies, are created, as well as the control of monopolyes in agriculture. In Turkey, from the beginning of the 2000s, the integrity of the neoliberal agricultural policies under the IMF and World Bank programmes has been completely corrupted. In addition, agricultural sales co-ops have been disabled and farming organisation has been weakened and the agricultural sector has been marketed. The agricultural and food system is increasingly shaped in the interest of international capital, and Turkey's food sovereignty has begun to enter into the agenda of multinational companies. In fact, between 2002 and 14 years, in nine of the 12 years, agricultural products made foreign trade clear. The public's agricultural policies today have turned to large and middle farmers rather than to protect small farmers. Small manufacturers disappear among large corporations. All policies in agriculture are assessed through efficiency, thus promoting the spread of company agriculture. However, when the social state is creating a policy, it should not only take into account efficiency, otherwise perpetuating the absence would be inevitable to increase inequality. Precious lawmakers, in 2012 the ratio of 77.3% of people living in the district and district centers is 77.3%. In 2014, the number was raised to 91.3 per cent by the Metropolitan Law No. 6360. In contrast, the percentage of people living in the towns and villages has dropped from 22.7 per cent to 8.7 per cent. After March 30, 2014, 16,000 villages were transformed into neighborhoods, in which the village's corporate personality was handed over to the municipalities and other entities. Agricultural fields, meraks and pedestrians have been opened to development so that farmers who have already failed to profit from agricultural production can sell the land and withdraw from production. In October 2013, total employment increased by 139,000 people from the same period of the previous year, and there were 25,648,000 people. In this period, agricultural employment was reduced by 294,000 people and was reduced by 6m,28,000 people, with a reduction of 4.7 per cent year-on-year. Agricultural employment has been reduced from 24.8 per cent to 23.5 per cent. During the first nine months of 2013, according to the same period of the previous year, there were 91,219,000 Turkish liras, with an GDP increase of 4 per cent. At the same time, the agricultural sector grew by 3.9 per cent. In the last decade, however, the GDP has grown by 5.1 per cent year-on-year, but agriculture growth has remained at 2.2 per cent. In nine of the last 12 years, agricultural products have made foreign trade clear. Turkey is a net exporter in the foreign trade of food materials and a net importer in the foreign trade of agricultural raw materials. Foreign trade in this area is shaped according to private sector demands, and the food industry is on its way to exporting raw materials that it imports. Turkey is also an importer of more than 20 million tonnes of wheat produced. In 2011, the import of wheat reached 5 million tonnes, and in 2013, it was only able to find 4 million. In Egypt, imports of 3.9 million tonnes failed to exceed 1.5 million tonnes. Dear lawmakers, fatty seeds and derivatives are one of Turkey's most important import pens. In January 2014, the price for fatty seeds was over $1 billion. The price for raw oil is about 1.5 billion dollars. At the same time, the total foreign currency paid to fat seeds and derivatives is over $3.3 billion. The nut, which has been asked to narrow down the production area under the World Bank programmes applied after 2000, provides the highest export revenue among agricultural products. After 2000, the increase in wheat production remained at 10 per cent, while the production of barley has declined considerably. The production of industrial plants, dry beans, and lumpy plants has decreased. It is true that only corn, tics, and sunflowers have significant increases in plant production. In other products, production is unstable, repeating itself or falling. After 2000, the population increased by 19 per cent, while potato production, among the basic foods of small and medium-income citizens, declined by 26 per cent. In 2012, the production of potatoes was 4.8 million tonnes, and in 2013 it was 3.9 million tonnes, with a decline of 18 percent. In 2014, it was also known as 4.1 million tons. Due to the lack of production planning, the over-produced potato in 2012 did not find the value it deserved in the market, despite steep increases in input prices. Added to that, limited export facilities, the unsold potato was left in the fields, in warehouses, animal food, even in the trash. So in 2013, the farmer cut down on potato crops, some merchants stocked their product to sell at a higher price, and the prices rose to extraordinary levels, with the impact of exports to Iraq. According to TÜİK data, the price of the potato increased to $1.83 in December 2013, to $2.88 in January 2014. Given the period after 2000, the population appears to have increased by 19 per cent and reduced the production of dry beans to 15 per cent. Turkey has averaged 190,000 tonnes of beans for the last five years, while importing an average of 40,000 tonnes annually. Price hikes in the beans approaching 60 per cent in the last year have also been known to be caused by droughts in the United States and Argentina, particularly. The customs tax rates of 19.3 per cent were also nullified by the decree published in the Official Gazette, January 21, 2014, to put out the fire of the beans. Resetting the customs tax may lead to temporary, relative reductions in the price of dry beans, but the real solution to the problem is production. Congressmans, the problems of beets and seasonal workers continue. Seasonal workers are in great distress, and these people are always looking for us and waiting for a solution. We've given detailed information about this in our previous conversations, and I'd like to briefly repeat it this way. See, a result of AKP's merchant mentality is the problems facing citizens in transportation to agricultural products. Today, the farmer is able to deliver his product to the consumer after a few hand-me-downs. The goods that the manufacturer sells to the merchant in very small numbers are going up to high prices until the citizen gets their hands on them, and in this case, we are the victims, the producers and the consumers. The only winners are the brokers who are supported and supported by the AKP (AKP) at every opportunity. Today, the difference between manufacturer prices and market prices is 400 per cent. Precious lawmakers, as of product groups, it appears to be 498 per cent in vegetables and fruit, 286 per cent in dried products, 256% in groceries, 199% in rice, and 206 per cent in animal products. In Mersin, the orange or tangerine manufacturer in Adana can only sell its weight for 20 to 25 cents, while in Ankara or Ağrı, the market prices are between 3 and 5 lira. Dear lawmakers were imported about $3.5 billion in live animals and meat during the 2010-2013 period. The most important reason for the red meat re-opening in 2013 is the high input costs. Because of both this and import policies, the manufacturer had to sell animals under the cost. This has led to the bankruptcy of thousands of animal manufacturers and many of the food companies established with zero interest loans have either changed hands or closed. On the other hand, the milkmaker can't buy 1 kilogram of raw milk for 1 litre of raw milk he's selling. The wrong policies apply to the animal manufacturer on the one hand, while also victimizing the consumer. In 2002, the number of large and medium-sized livestock companies with 50 head and tops reached about 29,000 in 2014, when the number of large and large cattle was 4,300. Over the last ten years, over 50 heads and above have been established. The policies that promote the definition of a company in livestock should be abandoned, and should be directed towards practices that will improve existing producers. According to data from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, chemical fertilizer prices increased from 3.4 to 4.1 times according to the genus during the 2002-2014 period. In some counties and counties, these prices are now determined to be arbitrary. At the same time, mixed bait and diesel prices increased 3.9 times. Precious lawmakers, one of the major causes of problems in the livestock industry in Turkey is the ongoing environment of conflict and violence in the region near 40 years. This conflict has shaken the region's economy to a very serious extent. Again, the bans on mera and pedestrians have brought agriculture and animalism to a standstill in the region. Thousands of hectares and pedestrians have been banned for security reasons, and these bans remain in many places. During the period of 2003-2014, the country was funded by $59 billion in interest payments at the same time, 548 billion in interest payments. So the local and foreign rate has been paid nine times more than millions of farmers. According to the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, which took effect in 2006, the funding for agricultural support each year must be at least 1 per cent of the non-employee. However, this number has been reduced to 0.6-0.7 percent. In 2013, agricultural support payments were paid at $8 billion,684m. The figure increased to $9 billion to $670 million in 2014, while in 2015 it was 10 billion. The watershed model, which was passed since 2010, did not increase premium support in many pens for 2013, but only symbolic increases in cotton, aspirin and olive oil. Mr. President, in our country where even the hay is imported from abroad, our reforms are being opened under the name of the local transformation. After the Soma disaster, Law No. 6552, which has been drafted for alleged job safety and improving the health of workers, has been added to the 1st amendment of Article 44342 under this law, which has gained the status of many non-compatible substances. According to this, the aim of allocation of places declared by the Council of Ministers as an urban transformation and development project area will be changed or changed. So the mera can be used out of context, and the local transformation will become concrete under the name, or the villages will become urban. Also, as you may recall, Law 6495, which was published in the Official Gazette on August 2, 2013, has been opened to the province. According to the law, parts of the mera, pedestrians and barracks that are deemed suitable as temporary settlements are registered in the name of the treasure in the deed by changing the purpose of the allocation. Apart from those necessary for public services, they can be earmarked for up to twenty-nine years, in exchange for the price of demand holders. In these places, construction will be allowed to be built in a way that cannot exceed 200 meters [200 m] of construction. Our meras need to increase their ability to graze by reformation, not to build. Dear lawmakers, in my recent speech on the research proposal, I have made a long explanation for the position of engineers, agricultural engineers and other relevant technical elements. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why I don't want to get back into it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0064par0127	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement from Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow congressmen, I salute you all. For Turkey, for the future of our country and for our people, I stand before you to assess the current developments in agriculture, in the village, in the state of the technical staff. Of course, we're going to talk about a gene for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Animalism. The Minister mentioned has been running the Ministry for 11 years in Turkey. I'm not going to make a rough, vulgar policy here, but I want to address brains and consciences. Let's put Turkey's agricultural photo in front of us and say: If the Minister who's been running this Ministry for 11 years is successful in the light of this data, let the opposition thank you, no, no, no, if he's not successful, and the ruling party MPs, you've been running this Ministry for 11 years, you've had every opportunity, you've used the budget of the world, and what are the consequences? I'm sure that our citizens who are watching us on TV right now are not expecting to watch the CHP, the MP, the HDP, the AKP fight, but to determine this current real situation, to determine the material truth, and to take a stand accordingly. My fellow citizens, my fellow lawmakers, let's say that Turkey is the world's most important land in terms of Anatolian agriculture, because for the first time in tens of thousands of years, mankind, who has been living off hunting and gathering, has settled and reformed the seed, tamed the animal, started farming and animalism. Of course, it's not a coincidence because this land, my dear friends, has opportunities for agriculture that are not available in any other country in the world. For example, there are 12,000 species of plants in Europe, which contain more than 40,000 countries, and only 13,000 species in Turkey, Anatolia, and 4,000 of them are endemic. In other words, we live on a gene bank. Today, no doubt, the world's most strategic product of wheat has spread all over the world from Diyarbakır. Again, the most valuable foods, lentils, beans, are the products of this land. Now, to have food, to have food, to dominate it is extremely important for the future of this world. Like water, food as important as weapons, and, my dear friends, in 1990, the World Food Prices Index was only 100, while today the World Food Prices Index exceeds 200. This shows us that countries that are importers will have to import agriculture and food products with more money every day, while exporters will be able to earn more and more money from agriculture and food. Now, let's look at Turkey's situation under the light of these basic information: Turkey was a country with 44 million people in 1980, today we have 78 million people, and 100 million citizens will live in the middle term. I mean, we're not a country like Germany, like France, where the rate of population growth has stopped. So, our main goal is not just to feed today's population, but to feed another quarter of a million more products that will be added to our population in the middle term. Now, in this painting, we can begin an accounting of the 11-year-old Mehdi Eker Ministry. Guys, the numbers are in front of us. I say it all the time, we're all capable of giving speeches all the time, but this speech doesn't matter in this country anymore. If you can't support your speech with numbers, data, there's no words to be said in the middle and considered. Look, let's just say, in the light honesty of plant production, there are only three products in the AKP period that have grown significantly; these are corn, sunflowers and tics, and all other products have been reduced or remained constant. What does it mean to maintain production? In a country that grows populations every year, production remains stable, which means you are increasingly losing food sovereignty in that area. And as a matter of fact, now I'm counting on you, all of these products, Turkey is a net importer. If I have a friend who says it's not, or the Minister isn't. If he says it's the future, he's going to tell the numbers here, he's not going to lecture. Look, I'm telling you. Wheat: Turkey is a clear importer of wheat. Arpa: Net importer. Soya: Net importer. Sunflower: Net importer. Egypt: Net importer. Sunflowers, soybeans, corn, and then we rattled it behind, and it's a net importer on the tripe. Here's to the beans, lentils, beans, chickpeas; all of them, this country is a net importer. In all animal products, this country is a net importer. Now, that's what I'm saying, I don't think the Minister is very good with numbers. Isn't the entire Ministry giving him a number? But the Minister has mastered something in 11 years: its mastery is the distortion of numbers.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0066par0141	He flips the numbers, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0142	Now, of course I'm not going to be a part of this distortion, so I'm going to evaluate them with their own numbers. Take a good look: the figures of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the European Union and the General Directorate of Foreign Relations. So that's not how the Minister is when I'm on the stand, brother, that's what cotton's been like. That's what he's been doing. That's what he's been doing. That's what he's been doing. Look, I'm giving you a number. For 12 years, when we look at the figures in terms of agriculture and food imports from Turkey, for example, in 2014, my dear friends imported $6 billion in agricultural products, and the agricultural product they exported is $1 billion. What are we talking about? Is that what I'm saying? That's from the Ministry's European Union and Foreign Relations Directorate. So what is it? Five billion dollars we're pouring out money for agricultural products in this country. So, what's the situation with the food? We're food exporters. There's $17 billion in food, $17.7 billion in exports, $12 billion in imports. So, Turkey is a food exporter, but what we need to be is a net importer of agricultural products that we need to sustain ourselves. Do you guys know where this is leading us? I'll give you the number again. Turkey is a country that paid $18 billion for imports of agriculture and food products in 2014, a country that paid $18 billion for imports of agriculture and food products. I'll tell you the whole thing: during the AKP era, for thirteen years, how much import money did you pay for agriculture and food? I'm collecting the numbers you've given me, and I'm telling you, $139 billion. Guys, multiply by the current number, divide by the same number, and you'll lose sleep. So Turkey paid 350 quadrillion liras for imports of agriculture and food during the AKP period. What are we talking about? What's there to say under this sky? The minister throws and holds: I have become the 1st country of Europe.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0067par0148	The Minister isn't listening.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0149	If the Minister were listening, would the country be like this? If the Minister were listening, if the Minister had listened to the words of agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, the country wouldn't be like this, and the Minister wouldn't be like this.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0068par0150	He has architects, architects!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0151	Now I'm going to talk about all of them. Now, friends, $139 billion, $350 quadrillion... when it comes to it, it says: "We are the 1st in Europe in agriculture, in the non-national product. " Those who don't know believe it, too. Look, I'll give you a number again: 41,000 square kilometers of Holland, the Netherlands up to Iconium. According to this agricultural foreign trade initiative, the Netherlands exports 103 billion euros, importing 66 billion euros. I mean, the tiny Holland...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0154	Look, you don't know. They're the goods that came to the Port of Rotterdam; they're transmitting; I'll tell them.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0155	Oh, dear! You come in, you tell me from here, I'll find out.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0156	Of course I'll tell you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0157	Thanks, there's nothing I can learn from you here.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0158	You just don't know. Come on, I'll take you to the warehouses over there.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0070par0159	Is it possible that such a small country...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0160	Brother, look, I don't know what the number is.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0161	Don't worry about it. It's not a number, look, it's the Port of Rotterdam, you don't know.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0162	Anyway, there's no point in having too much conversation with an ignorant man like you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0163	Come on, you're ignorant. I'm telling you about the Port of Rotterdam.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0071par0164	We read the numbers you read, so don't.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0165	I'm giving you numbers: 103 billion euros of exports, 66 billion euros of imports.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0166	We're just saying it because we know it. You tell me what you know. Do you know how much groping is in the Netherlands?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0167	Don't shout, don't scream! Be a gentleman and take my word for it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0069par0168	You can't call me that. I'm telling you...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0169	Is it that hard, brother? I just said it. I just said it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0072par0170	Mr. Bak, Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0171	You shut up, and then you'll come back and tell it here. Okay?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0172	I told you about the Port of Rotterdam. You're the ignorant one.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0173	I'm answering you. These numbers are the same as in Turkey...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0175	Don't take the numbers from the thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0065par0176	Will you shut him up, this friend?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0177	That's the logistics center.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0074par0178	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0179	But sir, he said "jahil. " I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0075par0180	If you won't shut him up, I'll let him speak for himself. Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0074par0181	I wish all lawmakers would respect the clerks.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0182	When it's over, I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0074par0183	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0073par0184	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0076par0185	In a country where the Netherlands earns 35 billion euros with the same statistic, you are not even head over heels in agriculture and food. France, what is this? Tell me what you're going to say to that. France exports 60 billion euros, spending 48 billion euros on imports. I mean, France makes 11 billion euros in agriculture, because you lost. Let me tell you about Spain. It doesn't work that way by memorizing it, you look at the numbers: math messes you up. The export number of 61 billion euros in Spain is 47 billion euros in imports. What does that mean? So, Spain, which is smaller than Turkey, is making money from 13 billion, 794m euros in agriculture, and you're still telling us that we're the 1st in the Gayrisaf national product, we've passed Slovenia, we've done something. Friends, all of this, from the bottom of my heart, should be taken out of a political dispute, and after seeing this picture, let's see what the men we've been authorising for 11 years have done to the country. (Applause) The MP should stop protecting the Minister, but what are these numbers, brother, why are you lying to us? Let him begin to ask for his account. Now, my dear friends say we support agriculture in Turkey. I'll give you a number again. Look, I'm giving you a figure, tell me it's not. Didn't Mahdi Eker support agriculture? Of course he did. How much support did he give? All your support for agriculture for thirteen years is $70 billion. Is it true? Your Honor, whatever year you want, let's sit down, one by one, and do the math. You support 70 billion liras of agriculture, the money you spend on imports, the money you spend, $350 billion. So, you threw out five times your support for agriculture for imports, and you're still talking about going out and defending agriculture, food. There's no shame? You've bankrupted this country's farmer, you've put this country's technical man out of work, and you're still saying, "Rotterdam, Rotterdam." If this country wasn't going to pay for exports right now, I mean, if it wasn't for borrowing money from the outside and taking a tripe with it, if it wasn't for buying wheat with it, it wouldn't be able to turn its bread around. Oh, I'll give you a number: Turkey's wheat fields have dropped to 93 million acres. I mean, you've even reduced Turkey's wheat field, but according to your figures, the wheat is not falling, and you're telling us that, yeah, we've supported efficiency in wheat. I'm giving you a number: when we compare the figures of the International Hubbate Council with your numbers, there are 27 million tons of difference in thirteen years. I mean, you don't even keep the statistics of wheat right, even here, you're trying to distort the statistics and actually cover up that painful truth. There's so much to say. For example, lentils: Haven't you reduced the production of lentils from 565 thousand tons to 417,000 tons? Open the numbers, we didn't drop. Didn't you drop the beans from 650,000 tons to 506,000 tons, brother? Couldn't the production of beans have stretched from 250,000 tons to 195 thousand tons? Didn't the bakla drop from 32,000 tons to 18,000 tons? Yeah, who did all this in this country, did I do it? This was done by Mehdi Eker and his friends. Now, when you say Mahdi Eker and his friends, let's get to know them. Look, Mehdi Eker has been Minister of Diyarbakır MP AKP for 11 years. Who's the Deputy Minister? He's from Diyarbakir. What's his occupation? Architect. I mean, an architect is Deputy Minister of Agriculture. So, what did he used to do? He used to be President of the Chamber of Commerce, but he was a Diyarbakır MP. Halis Bilden, CEO of TIGEM. Where's this citizen from? He's from Diyarbakir. Halis Bilden will take care of the seed, or the seed, or the stallion. What's his profession, Halis Bilden? He's an architect. What did this architect do in the Ministry? He served as deputy chief of staff, was the head of the Executive and Financial Affairs Agency; he served as a member of the Board of Meat Fish Foundation; he served as a member of the Board of High Commissioners; he was also the head of the TEGEM. Couldn't you find other men to deliver meat, milk, seed, other than an architect from Diyarbakir, brother? And this citizen is from Diyarbakir. Mustafa Kayhan, veterinary physician. Where's he from? He's from Diyarbakir. What did this citizen do? Member of the High Commissioner's Board. What's he doing now? He's resigning. For what? To become AKP MP from Diyarbakır. Nizamettin Ekinci was born in Mardin but studied in Diyarbakır. Chief of Staff. What is this citizen doing? Look, this is a public administration expert, and also a member of the board of directors, and also a member of the Board of Directors of the Department of Earth Products. Oh, you're so blessed, brother.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0077par0198	Talented, talented
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0076par0200	And something you don't know. You take a publicist, he understands staff, he knows tea, he knows grain. What's the real thing? You get the real money, you get the money, you don't understand anything else. So you're going to throw money into your pockets from those boards of directors. Now I'm asking: how much does Irfan Güvendi, a graduate of the Faculty of Political Information, get paid? Tell me about it. How much money does this Razi get a month from the chairmanship of Petrochemistry? Tell me that. Guys, why did I say all this? I have great respect for Diyarbakır. Diyarbakır is an ancient country. Of course, in the Ministry of this country, he will also be an executive from Diyarbakır. Don't let it be the GEDA, THE TRAVEL AND THE ANIMAL MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir). However, if a Minister has chosen all of his rulers from Diyarbakır, if he is from Diyarbakır, if he is from Diyarbakır, if his 5 general manager is from Diyarbakır, if all of them have resigned to become AKP People or AKP MPs, what do we see? This Ministry has one sense of the narrow region; two, great politicalization. That, my friends, is the reason for this failure. I'll tell you what they did about their territory: isn't it GAP; Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Mardin, Adıyaman? What did they do to the GAP, what did they do to the children of this Diyarbakır? Look, fellas, there's 1.7 million hectares of water waiting in the GAP. The amount we've taken so far is 411,000 hectares. You can only invest 19,000 hectares a year. At this rate of investment, you need sixty-six years to water all the areas in the GAP. So if God grants Mahidi Eker a long life, if he can catch the 11-year period six more times like this, all the watering areas in the Gap will be watered. Now, at least don't applaud such an inefficient, really inefficient government, and at least see how we can ask for its account. You know what that leads to? In Batman, unemployment is 23.4 per cent; in Mardin, 20.6 per cent; in Turkey, 20.5% in Turkey; in Şırnak, 20.1 in Turkey; in Diyarbakır, 18.7 in Diyarbakır; in Şanlıurfa, 16.3 in Şanlıurfa. Here you have made the land where agriculture began, the most beautiful land in this country an unemployment paradise. Why? Because you wondered, "How do we put all the chips in our pockets?" I'm afraid the country is in this position because you don't think of anything else. The last thing I'm going to say is that instead of setting up board members for your CEOs like this, you have 20,000 staffs available in Turkey, and appoint these people as agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians, water products engineers, fishing technology engineers, laborants, technicians, technicians. I mean, let's make sure that all the staff's salaries are fed by your CEOs, let the country's children get some RDs, let the Department of Agriculture put a little politics aside, let narrow districtism aside, and give the country's children a job at least. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0078par0211	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0212	Mr. President, I'm sure he's been taunting me by calling me "charg." I'd like a word.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0078par0213	Why did he pick on you?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0214	He teased her by calling her "Cahil. "
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0078par0215	Sir?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0216	He must have teased you, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0078par0217	Why did he tell you that?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0218	That's how he treats everyone. I'd like to give you an answer, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0080par0219	What matter does he want, sir, of what substance?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0220	69, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0081par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it's wrong of the clerk to use a sentence like that against a congressman. First of all, I tried to contribute to you, and if you listened, you'd consider it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0082par0227	Now's the time, make that contribution from there. You can make that contribution from there.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0228	You say, "Look, the numbers you've given about the Netherlands... for once, you have to think about the Port of Rotterdam. I've been to the port of Rotterdam, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been working.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0082par0229	Aren't we going to think about the port of Izmir?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0230	Look, listen, look, listen, I'm giving you information. Listen to the man who gives information, and prosper with knowledge. Look, look at the numbers.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0082par0231	Who are you to inform me?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0232	Now, the port of Rotterdam, Holland, is a logistical base. The grain comes. If you haven't seen the silos there, I'll give you a ride. There's a lot of them there.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0082par0233	Yeah, we're talking imports, exports, all the numbers! What are you talking about? We're talking about all the numbers!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0234	Look, what are you guys talking about? So those numbers, the exports, they're all related to the goods from there.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0083par0235	The wheat comes from Dubai.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0236	So why don't you take a look around the Port of Rotterdam? Then look at this...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0084par0237	Yeah, we call him "ithalat". We call him "export." It's coming from the harbor, it's not coming from anywhere else.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0238	Look, let me tell you something. I tried to contribute here. But, listen to this: Do you always tell people that the person who said something to you is ignorant, or do you say that the person who scratched his belly?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0084par0239	Not everyone, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0240	Hey, pal, stop looking at people from above; take the contributions, listen. It could be wrong, convince me, and we'll talk together. But why are you shouting from there? Those words don't suit you. If you know these numbers, don't call a congressman friend....
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0084par0241	We're telling you, we're telling you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0079par0242	I'm not gonna tell you that. Add to your knowledge, talk, it'll help. Then don't twist the numbers, please. Please don't talk like that. And I'll tell you this: if you're talking out loud, you can't convince people. Yelling doesn't mean you're telling the truth. They listen to you well, they give you knowledge, they contribute, and we take advantage of you, but don't tell people that you're ignorant, don't tell them that you're scratching your belly. They'll bury you in the trunk, and they'll always bury you in the trunk. Remember that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0246	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0086par0247	Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0248	The preacher, the man who scratched his belly I didn't tell him about, teased my side by the phrases, like the guy with the big head, like I was using it. I want to talk to you about the 60th article.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0086par0249	Here you go, Mr. Morning. I give you my word for two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0253	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all once again. My dear friends, I came out here with a saying on the stand: "Come, let's do the accounting together for these eleven, twelve years, and let's put the data in front of each other, and let's not multiply these data, not divide it, not distort it, but put it out properly, let's all say good work together, or let's just ask him for his account." Now, don't forget to tell me that if I'm using Holland's foreign trade number, the Port of Rotterdam is a human being, then I tell him that imports and exports have other resources besides Rotterdam Harbor. Look, imports can happen by land, they can happen by sea, they can happen by air, they can be included in the Port of Rotterdam.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0087par0257	The grain does not move like that; the grain is carried in large masses.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0088par0258	From Chicago, grain, bravo, not Rotterdam.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0259	It's a country that actually does reexport in the Netherlands, but I'm saying that it naturally goes into all of this account, and I'm saying that the Netherlands makes 35 billion euros out of it. What's he gonna do? The painting is so bad that the friend is writhing, writhing, and because he can't find anything else to say, he says: "Remember the believers. There is no port in Turkey, as if there is no port in France, as if there is no port in Italy.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0087par0260	Look at the numbers of Rotterdam. Let's take you, see the world.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0261	We give examples from Turkey, we give examples from Europe, we give examples from France, but God grant you ease, brother; I will pledge to be a member of parliament for a time. You have to defend things that are so strange, so untamable, that have nothing to do with concrete truth. I will say again: 'Allah will make it easy for you. Your grandchildren are going to read these papers, and they're really going to make the right determination. They're not going to say, "Oh, one of them is going to say, let's talk about good farming, let's do some accounting, let's do some good, let's do some good, let's do some accounting. So, I feel sorry for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0089par0265	Feel sorry for yourself, for yourself.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0085par0266	I said what I had to say, so go out there and say it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0090par0267	Thank you. Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0274	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of Mr. Mehdi Eker, our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism of the HDP Group. I salute you. I listened to the precious oratories, and I said, "Are we really living in a different country?" I'm really sorry to see our troubles, the classes you've taken, the thought that's still going on.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0092par0276	Mr. Mehmet, every time we listen to you, I assure you, we think we live in a different country.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0277	I remember Ahmet Kaya by mercy, who said that he was born of Diyarbakir, and that his name was Bahtiyar, and that his crime was not the sound of the reed. Diyarbakir accused him of reading. Now, this segregationist mentality, dear friends, is what we've suffered.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0093par0279	Shame on you, shame on you! It's just embarrassing, that's all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0094par0280	That discrimination, the other one, it's yours. You are the one who divided this country into Alevi, Sunni, Georgian, Laz, Kurd.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0281	There was a Turkey that couldn't see its way through, and now there's a Turkey that's taking a step towards achieving its 2023 goals.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0093par0282	You be a minister, make everyone Adıyaman.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0283	Being a captain isn't about seeing the tip of your nose, it's about seeing the horizon. The most powerful in history should be the peace of this nation.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0095par0284	For the first time in your time to import straw, meat will be imported, living animals imported; you will see the tip of your nose.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0285	...in the 100th year of our republic, there is a Turkey, which is feared by the tyrant, which extends as a hand of mercy to the oppressed.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0096par0286	Tell me, tell me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0287	The path of this nation is clear, dear friends, and our future is bright. We work for a Turkey where $40 billion in exports, $150 billion in agricultural revenues, our water-hungry lands get water.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0096par0288	You're still going, you're still going.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0289	We thank Mr. Mehdi Eker, the leader of the strategies and innovations in agriculture. We're aware of what we're doing, but there are things we can't do, and there are flaws, and we're trying to complete them. Precious lawmakers have a strategic importance, such as agriculture, it contributes in various ways to the use of great potential in Turkey, it employs 23 per cent jobs for the working people, it meets the mandatory food supplies of the country's population, and it protects our own food security.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0097par0291	Where did the employment come from in your time? Tell me how much it was, where it came from.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0292	When we came to power, we had an agricultural and farmer whose reputation was worn down and described as a black hole in the economy. On December 9, 1999, the letters of intent to the IMF, what did you say...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0097par0293	Outer debt's over, isn't it? One, the treasure. Gov. Go into the trailer and see how much money you get to pay off the IMF.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0294	...you said we were going to reform. The medium-term goal of those reform programmes was to eliminate existing support programmes in phases and replace them with the system of direct income support. It is clear that we are seeking to relieve the burden of agricultural support on the public finances of the 57th Reich's direct income support. Under the name of reform, a poison was given to the beloved farmers of this country, dear friends, but our nation did not forget them. The law shall be lifted over the loan subsidies, the price support of the Office of Land Mahuls, the price price prices, the sugar beets prices, the price of tobacco... IMF, I give you this letter. This letter is my pledge. I'm not going to pass this rate, I'm not going to give this nation anything more than that. They didn't explain it to the nation, but they didn't hesitate to tell the IMF in detail, to the very depth.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0098par0295	Is there any sugar beets left in the country?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0296	Dear lawmakers, our 765 thousand farmers were faced with a debt of 2.7 quadrillion. In those days, inflation was 45 per cent; we had a farmer who owed 59 per cent from the Agriculture Bank, 69 per cent from the Agriculture Loan, in the debt helix, in the foreclosure, in the pocket of the foreclosure, but on that day, the EC PARTI was able to help; we erased the $1.2 billion of debt from the Agriculture Bank; we were able to pay the rest in three years.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0099par0297	Explain to me where you deleted it from.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0298	Because now there is a government in Turkey that sees the truth, understands its people well, values production.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0099par0299	How did you delete it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0300	We owe our people a debt of heart, and we're willing to pay for it. We didn't have the luxury of putting political interests ahead of the country's interests with the populist approach in determining agricultural policies. We should never have neglected to count every penny and to see the full picture when we did that. We've seen many: I'll pay twice as much. We've seen those who say, "I won't sit on the mud." We've seen those who say, "If I did, I did." Here, the AK PARTY, it's here to correct the disturbed balances.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0100par0302	We also saw those who said, "Did you reset the money in the house?" The people who said, "Have you reset the money in the house?"
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0303	When they looked in the mirror, they did not blush, but they were ashamed in the mirror of the people who spoke recklessly to come to power.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0100par0304	We've seen a lot of people clean up their 17th, 25th corruption.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0305	For years we have been a land of agriculture. We must ask those who have kept us busy: Where was the Law of Agriculture, where was the Law of Seeds, where was our agricultural products insurance that would save our farmers from harm?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0101par0306	You make one arrangement every year in 13 years, you make 13 arrangements.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0307	Today, the EC PARTY has reached an important point in agriculture as a result of its will and determination to resolve problems.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0101par0308	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0309	More support in agriculture than ever during the republic was achieved by the EC PARTY during this period. 15 important laws have been passed concerning the sector, including the Agricultural Law. Dear friends, our friends, our oratories have told us that there are billions of dollars being spent in Italy. Do you remember those days?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0102par0311	Remind me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0312	The debtor, the foreclosure clamp, when the exchange rose, when people's hopes had run out, when the stock market had hit the bottom, it's clear what they did in those days, but what the AK PARTI did in those days, like a sun, was born into the horizon of this nation.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0103par0313	Give me a number, give me a number, don't lecture me, give me a number. Where'd you get all the production from? Give me a number on a product.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0314	I'll give you the numbers. Now, he said, "The million dollars went into import." Dear friends, do you remember, a billion dollars has been put to bed to get from the IMF.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0104par0316	Yes, you negotiated horses, you negotiated horses in Kuwait, Kuwait.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0317	15 laws have been passed in 15 days in this Parliament for a $100 million slice of $1 billion from the IMF.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0104par0318	Ask Mr. Ali Babacan if he negotiated a horse for $1 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0319	Those who did not get a law passed in 15 days to establish a public order, those who did all kinds of opposition for it, you, those who thought like you, unfortunately on that day, 15 laws were passed in 15 days under the direction of the IMF.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0104par0320	Did Ali Babacan negotiate a horse for $1 billion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0321	In this landscape, where the seed meets soil and labor with blessing, dreams continue to become reality, hopes to become production with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0105par0322	Give me a number, give me a number, give me a dream, give me hope, give me a number, give me a number, give me a number!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0323	Agriculture's contribution to national income increases every year, reaching $116 billion from $36 billion. Our agricultural products are now in the world market. $4 billion in agricultural exports has reached $18 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0106par0324	Populist speeches don't feed you, Mehmet. You're out of time, you'll face the farmer, you'll face the farmer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0107par0325	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0326	We're a net exporter in agricultural foreign trade.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0108par0327	What about imports, imports?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0328	Our country, ranked 14th in 2002, has now been the first in the world since 2005.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0109par0330	The farmer is waiting for you Mehmet, the Besni farmer is waiting for you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0331	We import wheat, and we export it as flour, and we are the first in the world, and these wheats go as flour, which you probably didn't see.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0110par0332	We saw it, we saw it. You pay $9 billion for wheat, $6 billion...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0111par0333	Mr. Good morning, you wanted no interference while you were talking, please, but...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0334	It's a politician's way of listening, I've listened to you, I haven't said a word.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0110par0335	That's right, I'll come after you...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0336	We feed 78 million citizens, 35 million tourists, and then export $18 billion in agricultural and food products. The animal product is breaking records in exports. After thirteen years, our export of milk and dairy to the European Union began again in 2013. Agricultural interest rates have been reduced; 59-percent 69 percent, where's 0.8%? In 2002, our farmers were given $1.8 billion in agricultural support, 9.7 billion in 2014, and 10 quadrillion in 2015.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0112par0338	From where to where!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0113par0339	Bravo, give me the numbers!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0340	The number of supports with 12 pens has been written down to 63. What are these supports, he says?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0114par0341	One fifth of the import.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0342	Dear friends, valued lawmakers, the budget in 2002 is only $9 billion in investments, and only 9 quadrillion in investments will we pay our farmer 10 quadrillion in AKP PARTI power this year alone. Enjoy your bath. But is it enough? And we know that's not enough.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0114par0343	How much do you charge for the diesel, diesel?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0344	During our rule, our farmers were given a total of 70 quadrillion lira in cash grants.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0114par0345	150 quadrillion lira imports.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0115par0346	He wants numbers, give them, give them!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0347	Animal support for 83 million liras increased to $2.7 billion in 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0115par0348	He must have gotten the numbers from the 70s!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0116par0349	Mr. Bak, this is not the opposition MP speaking.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0350	Animalism was given 15 quadrillion, 15 billion liras in support during the EC PARTY. Legal arrangements have been made that will bring permanent solutions to the division of productive land, which is the problem of the years. The land collection work has been accelerated, and the land's been reassembled. We supported domestic seedling. We've started agricultural insurance practices. With these benefits, our wheat production has reached 22 million tons, our corn production has reached 6 million tonnes - 900,000 tonnes, and sunflower production has reached 1.5 million tonnes. The production records of Republic history have been broken. Our total production of grain increased by 22 per cent to 37.5 million tonnes, our total fruit production increased by 37 per cent to 19 million tonnes. In livestock, there was reform work, reform work. Dear MPs, on 3 November 2002, in Turkey, our beloved nation began a new day with high hopes. The former Turkey was under threat of national will and custody, with the shadow of February 28th above the old Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0117par0352	Is it still abuse, Mehmet?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0353	In ancient Turkey, people were being provoked, questioned, excluded, seen as a threat to their thoughts, beliefs, clothing, and language. In ancient Turkey, the government changed every 16 months. Former Turkey was a Turkey (IMF) negotiating with ordinary IMF officers at the IMF gate. When we say new Turkey, we want a Turkey that doesn't need it, not ever again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0117par0354	Graham Fuller says New Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0355	The minds, hearts, and hearts of those who are set for short-term power do not understand it. Turkey was the only one who came to the world's agenda with terror, earthquakes. New Turkey, yes, they're criticizing us, someone's coming at us...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0117par0356	It comes with safes, shoeboxes, new Turkey with billions of dollars.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0091par0357	...but with its actions, its vision, its ownership of the human world, it's one of the most important actors on the international agenda. In ancient Turkey, there were people who sat hand-to-hand to borrow $1 billion from the IMF. In ancient Turkey, Hakkari was not Edirne, but Turkey, which could not lead to the villages of Ankara. In ancient Turkey, they called it the electoral economy, they were populism, the resources of the nation were squandered, they were unfair to the trust of the nation. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Here's what our beloved nation called these mistakes done in old Turkey. Hopefully, as we march towards the 2015 elections, we will witness the rising sun in every corner of Asia Minor. We will continue to speak to our human in heart language. In the 2015 elections, I also believe that our beloved nation will once again give the trust to the AK PARTY. Just as the sun was born to a new Turkey on the morning of November 4th, I hope on June 7th, our march towards a new world, a new Turkey, will continue quickly, I salute you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0118par0359	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0119par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0361	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0118par0362	Wait a second, let's agree which one of you wants a word.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0363	The speaker, referring to my individual, has greatly deflected my speech, as we are uncomfortable with the presence of the minister over an assessment I've made to him. That's why I want word from the teaser.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0118par0364	Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0367	Mr. President, if he knows how to read to Mr. Minister as a political irony, he will also perform the funeral prayer of the farmer he's ruined, killed. He received my assessment that we're uncomfortable with the climate. In the form of the AKP, he's deflected it in a very appropriate way. Now, if I may say so, Mr. Speaker, when did the prophecy ring end? Isn't the Prophet with the Lord? Recep Tayyip Erdogan, why did you not mind when they called him the second prophet?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0121par0369	Who said that?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0370	Why are you not troubled when you say that God has all his qualities and adjectives?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0121par0371	Now you're twisting it, it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0372	Why were you not offended when they said, "Lord, we are not arrogant?" When you make fun of the Qur'an by saying "Bakara"
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0122par0373	He voted, he voted, he voted, he voted, he voted!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0374	Why didn't you bother to deflect a political irony that I said...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0122par0375	They cleared it, they voted.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0376	When are you going to stop cheating? When are you going to stop practicing religion and selling religion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0123par0377	We don't buy and sell religion at all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0378	It's a shame!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0124par0379	That's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0380	I'm a Muslim Turkish boy, I don't mind the fact that Mr. Secretary reads it, and he answers it himself, and I say it, but I don't mind the fact that I'm a Muslim Turkish boy. Do you understand?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0124par0381	Okay, that's great, but you can't accuse me of buying and selling religion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0120par0382	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0125par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0126par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0127par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0128par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0129par0387	One moment, Mr. Bostanci, Mr. Tallermak has raised his hand before. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0130par0389	I'd like to shed light on the twisted information and incriminating expression of the 57th government -- a period in which our group, our party, is in the government.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0129par0390	Here you go, Mr. Tallermak, and I promise you for two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0130par0392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, making unnecessary accusations of each other does not contribute to politics. I would like to state here that the Minister and his bureaucrats know that many infrastructures were prepared at the Ministry of Agriculture, where they live today, during the 57th Government, and they must confess. From the prim system to the farmer's registration system, I think they'll admit that the base information was made by a program during the 57th government, that direct income support was used as a tool for the farmer's registration system. The primordial system -- cotton from fat seeds to other plants -- has become a system in the 57th government, and it is the correct system, and the threshold price is the basis for many policies in the Ministry of Agriculture that day, until it reaches some practices. Therefore, we need to use the information correctly and properly. He who lives in a dream dies in hope. You can't live in a dream. I'm giving you some numbers now. The truth of Turkey. You're saying... 166,000 people are currently lying in prisons in Turkey, and 200,000 others are wanted as prisoners along with 166,000 others. Turkish courts have 7.5 million criminal cases. 68% of these criminal cases are economic crimes, and about 89% of the 166,000 people who were in this prison were imprisoned during the AKP's rule. Now, can you tell me that since this society is a peaceful society, when you take out about 7.5 million files, the age of crime, 2 people, in Turkey, where 15 million people are guilty -- from these 7.5 million cases -- can you tell me that the economy of Turkey is right? IMF loans are something else. Has the Turkish farmer's debts, with restructurings, with this, with this, increased in numbers and quantity today? Guys, you can make numbers lie, but numbers always tell the truth. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0131par0400	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0402	The speaker who was just a moment ago took a promise from the distortion, and did the appropriate twist of the AKP. He said, "I want you to promise."
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0131par0403	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0406	Mr. President, dear friends, the valuable speaker has made a comment, and our friend has made an assessment of it, claiming it's a distortion, and he's made a commitment. He's done the same thing here about what he was promised. That's not appropriate behavior. If the distortion is wrong and you object to it, you shouldn't come here and do the same. So it's not appropriate for you to do this once. Second of all, you're talking about the distortion. No one told the President that you were the second prophet. They didn't say...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0133par0408	Okay? Ismail Hakkı, your President of Aydın Province...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0409	Ali, why don't you take a seat? Ali, have a seat. Sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0133par0410	Your President of Aydın Province told me. I listened to the tape.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0411	No one said that.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0133par0412	Mehmet, you won't get anywhere with all this denial!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0413	Besides...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0134par0414	What did you do? What did you do about the MP who said that he had all the qualities of God?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0135par0415	What have you done to those who say "bakara"?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0416	Besides, someone might have said some things that came out. There are people in Turkey who are delirious, who talk nonsense, who declare themselves prophets; there are, in the past, in politics.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0134par0417	What did you do, brother? I get it, but what did you do about it? Did you ask him about his account?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0132par0418	And there's also a struggle to change what people say, to change the context, to take it from there, to carry it to a place like that, to back up the holy, to get it out of here. Let's not do that.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0136par0419	But you did it, your friend did it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0134par0420	Are you saying Mehmet Erdogan just did it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0136par0421	Your friend did that.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0137par0422	Thirdly, Mr. Speaker, you need to be kind when you're just speaking...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0136par0423	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0138par0424	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0137par0425	You're saying it's Rexhep, the one in the palace.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0136par0426	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0137par0427	The Muslim Turkish nation, whom you are proud to be a member of the man in the palace, chose a 52 per cent vote. (AK PARTY) When you say to him, "Rheph" in the palace, when you say to him, "Rheph" in the palace...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0139par0428	Not so he can live in the palace!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0136par0429	When the farmer's in so much trouble, he's got five quadrillion dollars...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0137par0430	You're using a false expression against all those people you're involved with, and I don't want to say anything heavier, but let's just know that the Azerbaijans have a saying. Say what you want.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0140par0432	Yes, thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I'm going to tell you about the tencides and the ideas that were given and discussed about the first of the two genes that were on the agenda today. Mr. President, we, in fact, have taken the agricultural sector as an important and strategic sector, and we've always acted like this and made appropriate arrangements. We have tried to make Turkey's agricultural sector more relevant to Turkey's development and exports related to its infrastructure growth, quality and standard growth, and Turkey's development of Turkey's agriculture. We, of course, have passed these on to you on various occasions, but I would like to put it in your presence once again, in order for this gene to be recorded in history as well. But today, I'm going to bring up something a little bit different. I will not do the comparison today with 2002-2012, 2002-2013, 2014. What am I supposed to do? And for our friends who want to understand, if you'll excuse me, it's been 12 years from 1991 to 2002. There are 12 years between 2003 and 2014. I'll compare these twelve years with each other, 2 to 12 years. In 12 years, all the parties were in power, between 1991 and 2002, they were in SHP, they were in DSP, they were in MHP, they were in DYP, they were in DYP, they were in Homeland Party, they all happened. He also became an AK PARTY from 2003-2014.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0141par0443	We didn't.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0142par0444	There was also prosperity, and Erbakan Hodja was in power. Look, I'm getting a little bit more dependency in my field... simple, comparison: 1991-2002; in 1991, our agricultural exports are $3.6 billion, and this has gone up to $5.2 billion in 12 years. When? In 1997, in the year that the Welfare Party became a government partner, this went up to him the most. In this period, exports have increased by 44 per cent, within 12 years, in agriculture. In the 12 years between 1991 and 2002, our agricultural exports were cumulatively $49.3 billion. $49.3 billion in cumulative exports, total agricultural exports, twelve years in 12 years.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0143par0446	So? Now listen to the GEDA, THE TRAVEL AND THE ANIMAL MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Go on), and you'll see. I hope you'll tell me how much exports cover imports at the end of the speech. Listen, listen, listen. 2003-2014, now pay attention here. In 2002, we received agricultural exports at $3.8 billion; in 12 years, we raised $18 billion in 2014. The increase in our time is 374 percent. Look at the cumulative, in 12 years, our agricultural exports are $134.1 billion. Can you tell me how much exports cover imports? Now we're comparing twelve years to twelve years. If you're comparing the EC PARTY to the 12 years in the past, there's still no improvement here. If you're saying... Tell me what happened. What's the rate for exports to meet imports? Well, then I'll tell you what I really do. Only your people will believe that. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER It's useless to be a Western nurse! It's the wonder that his image will rise from the truth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're telling him, aren't you? Now, that's the whole point.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0144par0462	How much do you pay for imports?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0145par0463	It was meant for you. GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER Second: See, Turkey exported 1,480 types of agricultural and food products to 161 countries in 2002.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0146par0466	How many countries do you get it from? We've added 29 countries to this, we've opened 29 new countries, we've moved to 190 countries. We added 227 species to 480, which became 1,707 species.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0147par0468	That's why the French government aimed at you! Now, I'm going to say one more thing, I've just been told here, please, let's hear it well. Now, we're going down in history.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0146par0470	Come on, fall down.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0148par0471	Good dream, you'll get your answer. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), was said in Holland, and was said in Holland.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0146par0473	You're the most unsuccessful Minister of Agriculture and Animalism in history. Please excuse me. The Netherlands has $15 billion in agricultural revenues. The entire production is $15 billion. Do you know what Dutch imports of agriculture are? $70 billion. And the import of exports...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0148par0475	How much is the export? Dear brother, he's exporting $100 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0146par0477	Okay, bravo! It's beautiful, and I applaud.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0148par0479	You do the same. That's what I'm doing. That's what I'm doing. How much is your import, how much is your export? Wait, wait, wait, I'm coming! Give me a number and I'll see you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0149par0485	Come, come! Hey, there's no looting, here I come!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0148par0487	You couldn't give it to me in 11 years, which you're going to give it to me today!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0150par0488	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly, do not speak to each other, sir. Mr. President, please give these friends a heads-up and let them listen to it. I warned you, I warned you, I warned you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0151par0491	Don't worry, we're listening. Look, I've listened to you all the time, and you listen to me as a gentleman! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't worry, we're listening. We'll give you an answer. Now, France generates $43 billion, all agricultural revenues imports $43 billion, $64 billion. How much is the export? Why don't you tell me about exports? GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEDI EKER (PEOPLE) produces 45 (ITALY) and imports 52 billion dollars. How much is the export of France?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0152par0499	Good morning, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0151par0500	Oh, no, that's not a thing!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0152par0501	Please remember what you just said on the stand.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0151par0502	Right, you're right. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g., 32 billion dollars in Spain)... Look, have all these countries just been expressed here? Spain and Italy and France, all expressed, I answer to him. Let's see who's twisting the numbers, who's actually telling us about the dream. Say import and export together and we'll be quiet. GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (in continuum) produces $32 billion in Spain...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0153par0507	Let's talk about the same painting. GIDA imports $38 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0151par0509	Sing the same painting together and we'll be quiet. Shame, shame! Israel has $4.1 billion in agricultural revenues; it has $5.5 billion in imports. Now, as for Turkey: Turkey is up to 61 billion dollars in production, it has $61 billion in agriculture; 12.4 billion in imports of agriculture; $18 billion in exports. Now, dear friends, this is the case of Turkey, the Netherlands, France, Italy, and their number. Yeah, we showed you the number of the Ministry! We've shown you the number of the Ministry, it can't be that bad. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g., in plant production) We're saying your number, for once it's the number of my Ministry.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0154par0516	Good morning, the right to defend is sacred, sir, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0151par0517	The right to defend is sacred, but the Ministry doesn't distort the number.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0155par0518	We can't listen, Mr. President! Look, between 1992 and 2002 -- I'm still making that comparison between the last semester -- the average agricultural growth of Turkey is 1.4 percent a year, past 12 years, before us.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0156par0520	Anyway, Mr. Secretary only addresses the AKP Group, doesn't address us, so his face is always there. Between 2003 and 2013 in our time, it's 2.3 per cent; average, year-on-year growth. Between 1992 and 2002, this account is a fixed priced account of 87 base years, 2003-2013, 98 year-on-years. During the 2003-2013 period, Turkey produced 10 times more agriculture in a community where the EU is a member of 28 countries. Now, in 1992, the agricultural product was $22.4 billion in Turkey, 22.4 in 1992. That's a year up to $33.8 billion, tops, over the course of time. What year? 1998. I mean, it's up 51 percent, tops. So, how much did we get in 2002? $23.7 billion. How much would it cost in 12 years? Pic dot 62 billion dollars, 2012; $61 billion, 2013. The increase in our time is 161 percent. Now, we compare twelve years to twelve years. One went up 51 percent, one went up 161 percent. Now, tell me, how many times is 161 percent?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0157par0522	Can you count, what, one by one? Look, I'm coming to another comparison here. France was $30 billion in 2002, up $42.6 billion in 2013. Oh, they gave you a medal for that, because you're his biggest importer! It was $29.9 billion in Italy, up to $44.7 billion. Spain was $24 billion -- it was always in front of Turkey -- up to $32 billion in 2002. Turkey rose from 23.7 billion dollars to 61 billion dollars in 2013. Now, it's said: "Sir, there's no growth." I'll tell you the number on plant production, too, my esteemed deputies, because it's really important. These are the figures of Turkey. It's all real, it's all recorded, it's all open to everyone.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0158par0527	What does the grain council say? What's he saying? What does the International grain council say? Look, I'm telling you. There's just been talk of corn, tics, sunflowers, right? Look, I'll tell you: Turkey has produced 361 million tons of grain in 12 years between 1991 and 2002. He produced 400 million tons in 12 years between 2003-2014, 400 million tons, which means more.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0157par0529	Can you tell me about the wheat? Can you sing 2003 and 2014? 12 million tons in Egypt have increased by 51 million tons in our 12 years. It's 3.4 million tons, 12 years total, and we have 8.7 million tons. What percentage? 156 percent.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0158par0531	Yeah, what are you comparing it to? What kind of information is that, what kind of financial reality? What are you comparing to? Now, the sunflower is 10 million tons, up 14 million, 40 percent. The total fruit is 141 million tons, up to 204 million tons.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0157par0533	Can you tell me the green lentil? Can you tell me the red lentil? There was a campaign going on once, and people... The total vegetable was 264 million tons, up to 322 million tons. So what is it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0158par0535	Why don't you tell me what number you left with, 2002 and 2014? Why don't you tell me about your period?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0157par0536	Can you tell me about the potato? Let me tell you, let me tell you, look, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0158par0538	Tell me about your time! Didn't you just say you've been Minister for 11 years, I've been talking about 11 years, 11 years. You answer for 11 years, which one did you pull up? GIDE, ACTION AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI AK PARTY, THIS IS AK PARTY. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Did you pull up the wheat, barley, lentils, what?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0159par0544	All of it, all of it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0158par0545	You took them all down. Turkey produced 39 million tons more grain, 25 million tons more corn, compared to the 12 years before us. Say it round and round like that! Roll it round like that, so you don't get it! Bravo! GlDA produced 5.3 million tons more copper, produced 4 million tons more sunflowers, produced 63 million tons more fruit, produced 58 million tons more vegetables.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0160par0549	Then change the director general of this TÜİK. This man is lying. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER WHEN? The EC PARTY is based on 12 years of other ruling powers. Now, respected lawmakers, the measures we've started, including rural development, have increased efficiency in agricultural production in Turkey, including machine equipment support, economic investment support, and other mechanisms. Turkey's field has not increased, but Turkey's production, efficiency has increased. The architects did this, didn't they? Look, for the first time in the history of the republic, we have massed 4.5 million hectares of basic infrastructure. More than 10 times the sum of the previous forty-one years. So why don't you add up the production? Look, there were 10 times more gatherings in Turkey during our time.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0161par0556	Yes, the money has been transferred to the companies! A total of 32.5 million hectares were given a single ID number for the entire 32.5 million parcels of agriculture in Turkey. We, all of us, know all of this, including all of this land data, and what kind of plants grow in each of these parcels with what efficiency, climate parameters.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0162par0558	You know you don't! There's been talk of GEDA, AGIM AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g. Today, we established a Biological Research Centre in agriculture in Turkey. Normal rehabilitation studies have been shortened to five years in this centre, with technical and technology that we've developed, the rehabilitation of a type that lasts 12 years or sometimes 15 years in plant rehabilitation. So in 12 years, it's been seven years since it's been done. It's very important for us to reform with biotechnology and other classical methods, and we've done it, and we've opened it today. Now, from the solar-powered irrigation system, we own the patent -- which we announced three weeks ago -- and from many countries around the world, six agriculture ministers, the minister's assistants came and joined that promotion because we combined the first integrated information management system in the world that Turkey himself developed, 42 separate databases. Both the farmer and the manufacturer and all the other public enterprises can benefit from this system. Now, just now, with one of my general managers -- who is not on duty -- about Nizamettin Ekci, sir -- read in the Parliament the other day, here, I have the report -- he's getting paid on the month. It's called Mihrimah Belma, who's not in charge of the Group Chairman, he says that he can't get three of them. You know he can't. He says no. He says no, he protests. Dear friends, my General Manager, Nizamettin Sokci, public staff expert and chief of staff, a friend of mine with more than 20 years of service and labor in the government. Let alone 20,000 liras, let alone 19,000, this is a total of 9.700 Turkish liras.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0163par0563	Is he a board member? GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER 9.700 lira... I ask you: Is he a member of the board of directors? How does he know about tea? Look, my dear brother, you're talking without knowing it. Is he a board member in TMO? How does he know about grain? I'm asking, I'm asking. Look, you don't know what you're talking about. I'm asking you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0164par0570	I'm asking. I'm asking. I'm asking. Look, you don't know what you're talking about, you're slandering people.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0163par0572	I'm not slandering you. A member of the board of directors... You're slandering me. You're the slanderer! So ask me, and I'll answer you. Is he a member of the board or not? What does a publicist know about tea?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0165par0577	Good morning, Mr. Good morning.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0163par0578	Shame, shame! Look, this friend has a $7,300 general manager's salary, a $2,400 board member's fee... What board member? GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (e.g., again) totalling $9.700. What board member? Tell me! GEDA gets paid from one, gets paid from another. Which one? Which one? Tell me, brother, which one is it? GEDA, AGREE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER Someone... Tell me, which one? From the board of directors of TMO, here 2,400... How does a man know both tea and TMO? I'm asking you. GEDA, MEHMET MEHDI EKER 2,400... 2,400... How does he know? How does he know? The account is clear. The account is clear, in the middle. There's no other man back home? Where he gets his paycheck, is there no other man, brother? Now, look, people get up with their birthplaces, their birthplaces, their cities... I'll give it all to you, don't twist it! Don't twist it! I'll give you all the answers! Look, it's wrong, it's rude. It's a hate crime at an advanced stage. We're not dealing with anybody's hometown. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly) becomes a hate crime at an advanced stage. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That's what happens when you take down a minister! Don't blame people for their ethnic origins where they were born. I've never had anything to do with it. Don't confuse me with you. Don't confuse me with you. I've never had anything to do with that. There is no such thing. Okay? Okay. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Make the entire Ministry a Diyarbakir and defend yourself like this! Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0166par0605	Speech!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0163par0606	Shame!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0167par0607	Maybe. He's gonna ask you where you're gonna bring who? Dear MPs...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0168par0609	Speech! None of your business!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0167par0610	He was gonna ask you where you were gonna do it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0169par0611	Shame on you! Does that suit you?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0170par0612	You'll be fair!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0171par0613	Good morning, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0169par0614	Skullist! Fascist!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0172par0615	He's going to import from 81 provinces? How many Diyarbakır governors are there? He's gonna ask you? Now, the valued MPs, the engineer and veterinary physicians, were mentioned here. In no time in the history of the Republic, but in no time in our time, the Ministry of Agriculture has not been recruited as much as an engineer, veterinary physician, technical staff from various professions. In no time in the history of the Republic, the Ministry of Agriculture has not received 81 sociologists. We took that, too. Why? Let him know about rural sociology, where there are people, where there are people, and let this discipline be a contribution to our brothers and sisters in society. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Between 2003-2015, we had 23.130 technical staff. This is just the Ministry headquarters. Ataturk Forest Farm, TMO, ÇAYKUR, Meat and Milk Foundation, TEGEM and other organisations have taken on 10.982 technical staff. AK PARTY makes 33 to 34,000 people during the administration. In 1989, 250 people were recently taken to the Ministry of Agriculture. After that, no technical staff was taken. We've increased all of this, this employment, this production, this efficiency with our brothers, and we've brought it to this point.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0173par0619	The director of TIGAM is crying on the commission for lack of technical staff! We still have work to do. I would expect the opposition to criticize us instead of all of this, really, with better projects. I'm not thinking about where my general manager's birthplace, but what new projects the Department of Agriculture needs, which would have been much better for Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0174par0623	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0624	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0174par0625	Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0626	Mr. Speaker, in my Department of Agriculture...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0176par0627	Speech! Speech!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0174par0629	Congressmans, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0630	Ten people like you don't scare me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0174par0631	Mr. Morning, please address this address.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0632	The Minister accused me of ethnic discrimination during his speech. No, I didn't say that. I'd like a word from you on the collusion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0177par0635	Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0178par0636	Didn't you say that you filled it with diyarbakir? It's in the records.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0639	Calm down, calm down; now you'll all get your answer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0178par0641	You calm down! You're a mess, you're a mess! You're in pieces! You're a mess!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0642	All right, shout, all of you, all of you, all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0179par0643	Good morning, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0644	Friends, I said that those who have the patience to listen listen listen, and those who have a conscience listen.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0180par0645	And you'll be patient!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0181par0646	Charisma's over, charisma! You're a mess!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0647	I said that Diyarbakır is an ancient land and that I have been very respectful to Diyarbakır. I'm the Ankara MP. For example, when I was an Ankara MP, if I made the deputy minister from Ankara, if I made all three general managers from Ankara...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0182par0649	You say the same thing, you say the same thing! I thought you promised not to pick on me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0650	What would I have done if all of this were to resign from Ankara and become an MP from the AKP?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0183par0651	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0652	I'd have all the department's staff locked up in Ankara, imprisoned them in Ankara, and politicized the staff. If he was from Ankara and not Diyarbakır, I would have said the same thing. Everyone with a little conscience says: "Yahu, you're from Diyarbakır, Deputy Minister Diyarbakır, General Director Diyarbakır; At the same time, he's on the payroll from TMO, while he's a member of the Board of Directors of ÇAYKUR...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0184par0653	Minister, we're very proud of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0654	He also takes money from the jockey club, from the horsemen...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0185par0655	You're being racist, racist!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0656	Isn't it a shame to give the same man a board member in such a place when this country is suffering so much poverty, brother?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0185par0657	You're being racist, racist!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0186par0658	You're falling apart, you're falling apart, my charisma's gone! Your charisma is on the floor!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0659	...you can't stand to see us deciphering so much, and you're saying that it's ethnic origins.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0187par0660	Drop the literature, Mr. Gökhan. Stop with the literature of poverty, stop it!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0186par0661	You're a mess, you're a mess!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0662	Let me be clear: We carry all 78 million people on top of our heads without separating them in any way, but you...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0187par0664	I can see it, I can see it!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0188par0665	You can't talk, you can't talk! I can't talk to you like that!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0666	But if you lock up the entire Ministry with one and your own political party under your own understanding of narrow regionalism, someone will come out here and say, "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0187par0667	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0175par0668	Yell all you want, this financial truth is delivered by millions of citizens who are watching us right now.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0189par0670	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0190par0671	You're a mess, charisma's over, charisma's on the floor!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0189par0675	Talks on whether or not to bring up the motion on the motion to be a genotype of food, agriculture and livestock Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker has been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. In the second place, Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt and 23 MPs, we are starting talks on how the manufacturer is harmed due to mispolitics, the Increase of Meat and Animal Prices Imported and the Introduction of Smuggled Meat (11/53) can not be stopped, Agriculture Support is not paid in time, and the tasks related to these issues are not met, and we are beginning to begin with talks on whether Food, Agriculture and Animal Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker should be introduced (11/53) is the main priority of Gensoru (11/53). The government is in place. I'm not re-reading the motion because it's been printed and distributed and read in the 80th edition of the General Assembly, dated 19/3/2015. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, the meeting will be promised to 1 member of the motion holders, 1 MP on behalf of political party groups and 1 minister on behalf of the Prime Minister or 1 minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: Haydar Akar, Kosheeli MP; Demir Çelik, Muş MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Muharrem Varlı on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group; Ensar Öğüt on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Ardahan MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Mehmet Mehdi Eker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Now, to speak, the motion holder, Haydar Akar, the MP from Marseilles... Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0191par0689	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, 2 motions on the Minister of Animalism must be the first time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And I think it's from the reputation of the Minister of Petting. Of course, he just came in, gave me the numbers; he just gave me the numbers from his front, from his own window. But first I'd like to start by reminding you of two numbers, which have nothing to do with agriculture, and I'd like to start by reminding you of the general two digits. I'd like to remind you of the $90 billion that the citizens of the Republic of Turkey have lost as a result of devaluation over the past two months. That's the figure that the zatimuhteriam in your palace, the fugitive palace, put on the back of a Turkish citizen because it considers itself capable of everything. Again, in the last seven years -- he's always talking about the fiscal lobby, the interest lobby -- in his thirteen years of power -- people with euros from this interest lobby, with dollars, but he can't tell who won it. So we want to start by reminding him of the 181 billion dollars your government has paid, the quadrillion liras, the billion dollars, the 181 quadrillion liras he's paid to say here in the last seven years. Why did I tell you all this? I think these numbers are very important, considering the point where agriculture was brought by this Minister of Animalism in 11 years. Again, food prices are falling around the world, while Turkey is increasing. When the inflation of Turkey reaches 7.5 per cent in the first half of 2015, we see that we are the fourth in the world in inflation. But it's in inflation, in inflation, which covers all the products. In agricultural products, the net inflation of agricultural and food products is 13.70. Now, you can see the agricultural products that have been ministering to this ministry for 11 years, and the inflation rate in food products that the minister of this institution has brought to Turkey and fed to the Turkish people. Now, Turk... Mr. Minister always compared the past, took it from 1991, compared the twelve years of that period to the twelve years of his time. Let's say 11 years of his time because he's been a minister for 11 years. But we're going through a period where it's shown its worst performance in the history of the Republic, because in 2003-2013, when the GDP growth rate was 5 per cent, the average growth in agriculture was 2.3 per cent. So we can't talk about the Minister's success, his success story. The numbers, they're not my numbers, they're TIC numbers. He'll probably tell the Prime Minister this evening, he'll be able to depose the head of TÜİK News and appoint an architect from Diyarbakir; he can find an architect from Diyarbakir to create numbers, to express mathematically -- Mr. Minister -- and appoint them. Now, 44.5 million people lived in 1980 in Turkey and today we have reached 77-78 million, so our population has increased by 75 percent. When we look at this since 1980, we think that this development should also be in agricultural production, a normal rational person, a person who understands mathematics, sees that this is the way it is, but in the time and period of your Ministry and in the time of your rule, we know that Turkey has become an importer of agricultural products and food products. I remember from my childhood and from my youth; the whole world talked about Turkey as a grain barn, talking about how the Plains of Conium could produce enough products for the world, but after the Minister came, we said, "What is it possible to talk about these things?" Now, when we evaluate the last thirteen years of AKP (the AKP) we see that one, the farmer is not supported, the farmer is taxed; two, we see imports explode as production falls; as long as I can open them one by one -- we see that many factories have been shut down by privatisations; we see that our farmer is in the foreclosure and execution clamps; we see that the number of producers and plantation fields are rapidly shrinking. I'm going to try to explain all of this when I'm talking to you about Mr. Eker, during the Justice and Development of the AKP and how agriculture and production fell during the period of Mr. Eker, which had nothing to do with agriculture, except its last name, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0192par0696	What do you have to do with agriculture, Haydar?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0191par0697	Look, our population increased by 10 percent during the AKP. The AKP has increased by 10 per cent, but in the AKP, agricultural products have not increased. We're talking wheat. Just now, again, a speaker mentioned wheat imports and flour exports, and if I have time, I'll give you his numbers. Look, when you came to power in 2003, Turkey produced 19 million tons of wheat. Mr. Secretary, how many million tons of wheat are being produced today?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0193par0699	It's over 22 million tons this year.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0191par0700	Our population has increased by 10 percent in your time of power, producing 19 million tons of wheat. And I'll be right back with how much money you're paying for the wheat import. Pamuk was one of our most important agricultural products produced by Central Anatolia, Mediterranean, Aegean, and farmers working there, and our industrial product was also cotton. When we look at cotton, we see 919,000 tons in 2003, but in 2014 we're down to 878 thousand tons. The barley is 8.1 million tons, 6.3 million tons today. Mr. Secretary, we used to campaign for lentils, we used to say to lentils, don't eat meat, eat lentils. Our supply of lentils in Turkey... was a lentil warehouse in Turkey. Look what you did to red lentils and green lentils during your reign: the red lentil dropped from 485,000 tons to 330,000 tons, and the green lentil dropped from 55,000 tons to 20,000 tons. It's like you think we're getting less populations like Europe, and you're collaborating with the parallel structure in parallel to that, and you might think, well, our production is going down. (Applause from CHP rows) As our population rose by 10 per cent in your time, our production fell down and we became a country that was narrowed down from production. That's what we said about agriculture, and now I want to give you numbers from imports. Actually, let me tell you a little bit about livestock, because you're the Minister of Petting, but I'll give you the imports later. Now, I told you, in 1980, our population was 44 million, 77 million today. You've always compared it to the past. I'm telling you now, in 1980, I'm saying cattle, Mr. Secretary, cattle. Since you're the minister of livestock, you'll probably fix these numbers here -- we had 16 million cattle in 1980. Our population has increased by 75 percent, our number of cattle has dropped by 2 million. GEDA, TELL ME ABOUT THE TRANSLATION AND THE ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) 2002. Two million down, we don't eat meat, meat. GEDA, TELL ME ABOUT THE TRANSLATION AND THE ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) 2002. Now we're looking at the buffalo: there were 1 million buffaloes in Turkey in 1980. You didn't compare it? Didn't you just compare 1980 to 1991? I'm comparing him. There was a million buffaloes, what's the number of buffalo down to? One hundred and eighteen Love for those who can see the buffalo. Kids don't know what a buffalo is anymore. Let's look at the sheep, the sheep, the little fella: 49 million, thanks to you, 29 million. Wrong, wrong, they're all wrong, I'll fix it later. For the first time in your life, this country has imported sacrifice, thanks to you, and you have been rewarded by France for your contribution to France. If I were you, I'd come here and put that medal around my neck, put it on this stand, and this Congress would applaud you for your support of the French farmers, especially the AKP Group, dear Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Goat, goat... do you know the goat, or have you forgotten the color, the type? You've dropped from 19 million to 9 million, so you've lost one of our 2 goats, you've lost one of our 2 sheep, you've lost nine of our 10 buffalo; who ate them, Mr. Secretary, did you eat them? (CHEERING) Our buffaloes are gone. Now, there's a Minister of Agriculture who's made the country this way, but this Minister of Agriculture is coming out here, and he's telling a story of success, and he's telling a ballad, and my friends in the AKP Group, without questioning anything, without looking at any number, let's just go look at what we say, for God's sake, look at the figures of the TİK, and you'll see that the Minister doesn't deserve it, in the Council of Ministers, in the Cabinet, for the longest time in the cabinet. If you had questioned this, you would have pressured the Prime Minister before we really had to make a motion or give him a gene, and you would have said, "Ya, Turkey has finished agriculture and finished farming in Turkey." You should have said, "You should have called this Minister off." What do you say? What do you support? Mr. Secretary, have you given any support past 0.5 in the last year? We supported $70 billion in agriculture, you say. You owe the farmer $48 billion in the last seven years. Why? Because by law, you don't give 1 percent, you give 0.5 percent, you steal what the farmer deserves, you steal what the farmer deserves, and I'm telling you that clearly. If you think you're being teased by this word I'm saying, please come, here, in the last seven years, you'll tell the farmer how many percent of the incentives you've given the farmer and what number you're supposed to give by law.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0194par0721	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Demir Çelik is a member of the Mush MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0195par0725	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've come before you to talk to you about the Republican People's Party's business with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Animalism. I salute you all. Dear President, respected lawmakers, Turkey is a country in the northern hemisphere, but also in its own special position with latitude and longitude. In addition to this unique and special position, it is a country in the north where there should be an ecosystem of the Black Sea, a Mediterranean microclimate, and also an economic entry based on fishing and seafood. Despite its potential, almost 50 million of 77 million people don't know and don't know the kinds of fish and fish; although they hear it, they lack it in television and visual media. We live in a country where these and other needs of false policies are denied to their people. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, while the latitude and longitude of the region is capable of being 80 per cent of the forest, it's not enough that its forests are subject to urban transformation projects, but we're dealing with a country that has fallen to 11 per cent in this direction in the forests that have been burned down by warm or otherwise purposed forests. We're dealing with the fact that the natural fruits of forest products have been nullified, ignored, their mereness has been taken to the city range, the destruction of mercurities under the name of urban transformations, the destruction of pedestrians, barracks, and the diversity of animals in this direction and Turkey's fauna have been ignored. Yes, numbers and mathematics are correct, but your ability to interpret mathematics and numbers based on your intent, to shape society by subjecting it to a perception operation, is one of the many ways that those in power do. That's because he's in power to reverse the truth and persuade people and society into his own power. See, in this country right now, 6 million people are facing a sentence of social policies, some social inputs of the state; around 13 million people have to live their monthly lives with minimum wage and underage income; 30 million people have been on the edge of poverty, but for 12 years, a power habeas corpus has been in search of new achievements, pointing to us. This is a subject that really needs explanation. But that will never allow us to ignore the hunger, poverty, poverty, unemployment, and loneliness of this country's people and society. Yes, in perception, in creating perception, in molding and molding society, with the ideological devices that you have, you're more successful than you are. You can shape religious sensitivities, ethnicity sensitivities, you can shape your beliefs, cultural values from your friendly media, but you can never prevent us from seeing the reality of this society in that sense. What happened reminds us of another reality beyond what you're describing, beyond what you're describing. Imagine, not much, but 30 years ago, the number of small animals, goats and sheep was around 60 million, and today the number of sheep dropped to under 30 million. Our goats, whose diversity, such as hair, tattling goats, are facing extinction. And again, when about 20 million cattle were down to almost a million today, and the buffalo was facing extinctions, and you're still talking about success and success stories, it's that you're playing with our minds, and you're making fun of our minds despite the reality that exists. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this is a reality that we see in food and in agricultural activity itself. See, Israel, a 40-to-one part of Turkey's area, has become almost the world's most important brands in the production of Dutch vegetables and agriculture, which is one-to-20th of Turkey's area. Our 1 in 40, our 1 in 20 is based on exports based on food and agriculture, where we have the opportunity to count ourselves in almost 20 developed countries around the world, while we are 40 times larger than Israel, the level of food and agriculture of the Netherlands, where we are 20 times greater than the level of food and agriculture, behind and behind its export entries. Is this what we're going to brag about, how you're going to encourage us to brag about it? In the same way, under the name of industrial agriculture, wrong agricultural policies, you took people out of their geography, their spaces, where they could meet their ancient civilisations, share the values of the past with human beings. By condemning people to Neoliberal politics, you took them out of their land, ripped them out of their roots, migrated them, subjecting them to the policies of starving discipline, hunger correction. Neoliberalism has led to Turkey's share of food, agriculture and animalism, with the maximum of its policies in marketing, subcontractorisation and metamorphism. With beans, corn, tripods, yes, and soybeans, lentils, wheat, barley, bait plants, Turkey has the potential to become a world brand. This Turkey, as well as cotton and sunflowers, could have had the opportunity, the resources, to become one of the world's most important export countries, with the potential of many industrial products, such as tobacco. But with the wrong policies, we are far behind in agriculture and animalism and as a whole in the development of the country, with these wrong policies, which serve to mechanize under the name of the management industry, to bring labor to a cheap position that can be bought. What is industrialism in agriculture? First of all, it's the chemical poisoning of our nature, our nature. It's the production of poverty, hunger, poverty, knee-deep and unstoppable speed. We're talking about industrial agriculture on one side, and on the other side of the world, we're saying that 1.5 billion people in the world are facing a state of hunger discipline. Agriculture is over in Çukurova, where agricultural industry enters. In the Mediterranean, where agricultural industry enters, citruses are finished. In the Aegean, we forgot our figs and grapes. In the Black Sea, we are ready to take our nuts, our wheat, and our barley from almost one of them. The result of the consumption of society's economy, of creating a consuming society, is that we took our people, our people, out of production; they did not sow, they did not reap. The people who were deprived of their fields and crops were no longer able to live in the countryside, and they faced almost a state of starvation in the ghettos of the metropolitans. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, is this fate? Of course not. Neoliberalism isn't fate unless we allow wild capitalism to steal our future as if it were in our cells. But despite our independence and our rhetoric, your job, of course, is to be in search of being a ring of the global imperial siege, an extension of neoliberal policies, and when you decide to be a country, you do not go out of what the global imperial forces say. If you consider our future today, Israel's food farming companies, our future, the Netherlands' food farming companies, our future, the technology of the age of knowledge, the United States of America, a future determined by Russia's hegemonic power, that's what we object to. The resources of this country, the dynamics of this country, are more likely to meet its needs, and the needs of another country as big as it is, of food, agriculture and animalism. As long as we can approach the problem with rational, objective criteria and be managed by a state and administrative system that agrees with the qualified solution to this problem. When we, as executives of democratic politics, deny ourselves the words to say about it, when we try to agree to what exists, it's really not possible to take the situation further, more qualified change, into transformation. For that reason, development should be development, if it lacks justice, law; if development serves only the hierarchy of power alone; if development will make the rich richer and the poor poor poor more poor; but if it reaches the point where it will expand the gap and discipline the poor by hunger, then it is not development; it is the service of the rich, the rich, the power, the profit, and the capital, which we, as a society, object to. Yes, in addition to objecting to industrial agriculture in that sense, we argue that communities can provide their own needs based on their own self-power, based on their participation economy. Industrialism, power and the city, despite its alienation of society to society, to humanity and to nature, is to re-create itself based on the self-power of society, to socialize with nature, to meet with ecosystems. Therefore, instead of a centralist administrative mechanism, it is necessary for regional governments to evolve quickly. We're not going to be enough, traditional, family-based agriculture should be the basic policy of our day. When you give people the right to fair use of people instead of having some money fathers, monopolys, trusts, instead of the property that they own, as well as the property of the state, they will not only meet their own needs, but also the needs of their town, its village, as well as its community, when it has the right to use them, when it begins to produce enough agricultural products for itself and its environment. If you're going to support it, it's going to have to be procreative. Agricultural support returns as a service to the landowners, to his gentlemen, to his feudal men, who own vast lands. It is necessary for us to hold them off, support the poor, the poor, the needy, the landless, the homeless, to encourage them to produce, the power from production, the power from the state, and the power of the state, to provide for the people, the people, the people, the people, and the needs of the community, democratically and directly. If you leave a person, a cut, a mechanism to meet their democratic needs directly, instead of a mechanism, you leave him in need of the pleasure of stateist, ruling mindsets, his own relativistic policies, his mercy and his invention, you, free individuals, not a free society. You're dealing with a society that pledges to you instead of a free society, agrees with you and your policies, and does not object under any circumstances or under any circumstances, that day of society will begin to swallow you, as well as your unchanging policies, which insist on the status quo. That is the point of the AKP (AKP), which today is suffering from power sickness, the tiredness of power. Therefore, it is important for both the welfare of the AKP and the welfare of the people of Turkey and its community to get out of this political line. Yes, and in this framework, we are the first of all, the way that every policy leads to one, justice and fair governance; two, in every situation and in every situation, to predict change, change, transform, to open the way of society; three, development based on the potentials to meet the legitimate demands of society; four, when you put this development into action a system of governance which is shared fairly, which is divided by right, you fulfill the human, conscienceal responsibilities of what you do. What good is a development free of all that, without justice, justice, justice, and justice, without justice, without justice and justice? If there was, it would be worth about a hundred million dollars you've created in Turkey, or about $1,500,000 in the world and around the world, it would benefit billions of people, it would hurt the rest of them, it would be their future, it would be their future, it would be their freedom, it would be their peace, it would serve them every day in the name of freedom and peace, it would serve those who impose war on them, the destructive policies of war. Therefore, today, global imperialism is not independent of these economic policies that it imposes on us on its strategic, economic interests through the wars of power and power. It's the product of economic policies, where we shoot each other, as ancient peoples of a geography, where the war instruments of these financial institutions, which are pushing themselves against society, at an unstoppable point in which they're intertwined, at which point they can't be stopped, we're hurting each other. To accept the social, political, ecological destruction of war is almost a virtue. However, what needs to be done is not to serve the political interests of global imperialism as well as the strategic and economic interests; it is to protect the brotherhood of the peoples, a democratic, free life in which people can live together in peace. Because democratic and free life will only take action through democratic politics, nonviolent means, its place, its authority, is this Parliament. This Parliament is legitimate if it has to meet the quality of society's needs with economic, democratic, political, social policies without any need for a hierarchical relationship. Instead of meeting this, the political stand based on some of the interests of powers, states, or the interests of the ruling centers, the political line is out of the community, universally illegal, and in that sense, it is the democratic, natural, and ecological society that prevents us. For billions of years, we have been the product and most important elements of the ecosystem, the character of being a free individual, the natural, democratic and ecological society, the moral and political community that we want to achieve, the bride says that if we want to build the future together in peace and freedom, the country's peoples and dynamics, we can promote peace in the position of anti-war democracy on a global level.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit03spe0196par0740	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0196par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue talks on whether or not to bring up the motion on the motion to be a genotype against Food, Agriculture and Animal Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker. The government is in place. Now, Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who wants to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0197par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the genotype given to the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about the general problems of agriculture. Today, the Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel. When the AKP government came to power on November 3rd of 2002, we were going to give cheap diesel to the farmer. But in those days, the old money cost $1.230 a gallon of mazotin, and now unfortunately, the farmer consumes diesel for $4. Let's not give them cheap diesel, the diesel has increased by four times its value from that day to today. Mr. Secretary, he's always giving examples. Here, we've tripled it, we've doubled it, we've increased it to this much. But he never mentions diesel, you've increased the diesel four times. Mr. Secretary, this will probably be written in your plus house. Again, you're giving diesel to the naval business without TSV or VAT. So his liter comes at a price -- like $1,800,000 -- is like $1,800,700,000 -- at an old number -- but the farmer puts diesel in his tractor at the same price as the eight-cylinder luxury SUV. I mean, is that the answer to God? Is that true? The farmer has a structure to produce, to give to this country, to feed the people of this country, even to feed the people of the world when the day comes. You see, we should have protected the farmer in the best possible way, but you don't get the OTV and VAT from those who run naval operations, you get the same amount of money as the gas that goes into the farmer's tractor. That must be your plus-one. Again, fertilizer prices ranged between 250 and $300 when you received them, on November 3, 2002, when you came to power. At the moment, fertilizer prices -- in the old figure again -- vary from $1,100,000 to $1,600,000. So, you've raised the fertilizer prices roughly seven to eight times. Look, Mr. Secretary, we've increased your positives so much, we've increased your coefficients. Please tell me that this is our negative household, and we need to do this. Let's give you a round of applause, but no, you don't say your negative household at all. Sir, you're trying to comfort people with such tiny, tiny increases. Now, about this fertilizer, I've proposed the law several times, I've submitted a question motion. Let's get rid of the VAT in the fertilizer, you get 18 percent VAT from the fertilizer. I mean, you took it out of the gold, you took it out of the silver, you removed it from the ornament, you removed it from the makeup, you reset it from everything, you reset the OTV, but you still get 18 percent VAT when it comes to fertilizer. Now, that's probably something that should be written down in your negative household, Mr. Secretary. As Minister of Agriculture, you should have protected the farmer, you should have stood up for the farmer, but so far you've done nothing about it. Each time, in response to our final motion, sir, if we remove it, it will bring additional loads! So, of course, the people of this land, who produce it, should bring some additional burden. I mean, so many -- sir -- people who make money on tenders, people who make money on roads, sir, people who make money from here, people who make money from here, people who eat from the store, they don't bring extra loads, but they don't bring an additional 1.100-bedroom palace, so they're bringing a few extra pounds to the farmer? I think you might have to stand up for the farmer a little bit about this, and that's your minus-dignity, Mr. Secretary. Again, look, seedmaking: Here, we produce seeds like this, we produce seeds like this. Well, I ask: is there a seed in Turkey that we produce, that can be planted? No. Cotton? I don't have that either. It's all something that foreign companies produce in this country and sell it to this country, so they make money off our backs, but you're coming out of it, we've done these things, we've done these things. Which cotton seed is produced by Pioneer, Dekalb, or White Gold? If we're going to do something really good, we've got to grow the farmer some cotton seed that can make 500 or 600 kilograms of produce on his turn. We need to make corn seeds that produce 1,400 kilograms, 1,500 kilos of efficiency, sir, and we need to produce them, but we've failed to produce any of them. Unfortunately, right now, American or European origin producers come to Turkey and develop seeds and sell them to Turkish farmers, the Turkish farmer consumes the world's most expensive seed. So, we did this in seeding, and we did this. I think it doesn't mean much. After you arrive, you're saying that the Bank of Zaraat lends as much as this, as if it's a beautiful thing. Why would a person who doesn't need money go and get a loan on interest? I mean, today, look, all the farmer's assets are mortgaged on his house, his land, his tractor, everything. I mean, that means something else, but I'll tell you nicely, even the dress she's wearing is the mortgaged farmer's. For him, the farmer, he's going through the most difficult days he can go through right now, the worst days he's ever had. I can plant a field without a loan from banks, without a loan from banks, and I run my tractor and plow my field. The number of farmers who say, "It's not one percent," but you've always ignored them. Sir, we are so supportive, so supportive, as if you're giving your own support from your own pocket. Again, about the treasure fields... look, I've told you over and over again, there's been a law here about the treasures, supposedly for the farmer to pick them up. There's been a good law here with everyone's support, but for two years the infrastructure of this law has not been created, and these fields haven't been put up for sale. Why? You're waiting for the election. After the general election -- of course, then, hopefully, we'll be in power, we'll sell these fields to the farmer at very cheap costs, but -- how can we possibly produce these fields at a high price in your own power, so the farmer can't take these fields, the interest lobby, the dollar lobby -- how can you account for these fields from the farmer's hand? That's all I can think of. I can't think of any other logic. I mean, there's no other meaning, there's no other way to explain it, there's no other way to sell it. Look, I'm warning you again: these fields, these farms, where farmers have been working hard for years, they've been making money from there, their children's children's livelihoods, if interest lobbyes, those who earn dollars, those who eat them for free, those who eat them in the air, those who eat them in the pan, that's not good for this country, that's not good for this country. May God have mercy, blood will be shed, and this will be the government, no one else. Now, again, let's get to animalism. So this is how much we've increased the production of livestock, and the production of milk has increased, sir, and the production of meat has increased so much. What if, my friend, the production of milk has increased so much in this livestock, why is the number of animals suddenly reduced? You've applied a policy called "let the cow eat, let the cow be fed, let the cow be increased." Maybe you thought in good faith -- look, I don't mean in bad faith here -- but since you couldn't figure out the rest, you gave me a cow loan with zero interest loans because you couldn't see the rest of it, so all of a sudden, with the new money, with the old money, $2 billion -- all of a sudden, it came out of 7 billion dollars, $7.5 billion. The farmer went, the peasant went, he took these heifers, he brought them, you gave up the zero interest loan app, and all of a sudden the heifers fell back to two thousand liras, the old money, for $2 billion. What if you sell his mother, his calf, his milk, his flesh, his skin, his head, whatever he can't get out of it? You're supposed to give him zero interest, so the farmer had to pay over 100 percent interest in order to pay off his debts. That wasn't the right policy. Look, I'm not saying it's malicious, I'm not saying it's wrong, but it's not the right policy. This policy has hampered animalism. Unfortunately, he took those beautiful heifers, the efficient, quality heifers, to pay off the peasant debt, and he had to cut the price of meat. That was wrong too, Mr. Secretary. Again, our plateaus, our mountains, our plains, our sheep's shoals, but, unfortunately, in your reign, we became importing sacrificial sheep from the outside. Every man would feed his sacrifice in his own house, and if he was to sacrifice three, five, ten, whatever, he would feed his own sacrifice, maybe feed a few more, and take off his allowance, but in your time, they could not find a sheep to feed, nor slaughter. You forced this country to bring in imported sacrificial sheep. Here, sir, when we say you've imported straw, are you saying we should leave it unsteady? Mr. Secretary, in front of every house in this country, even without an animal, there used to be a gang of hay, but now, in your time, it's a pity the peasant is in need of hay! He's desperate for straw. He doesn't have any wheat to make, because he doesn't plant wheat. He doesn't plant wheat because he can't make money on wheat. Whether it's imported or imported! It's like we're selling airplanes, like we're selling missiles, like we're selling nuclear energy, and we, sir, are importing agricultural products. Why don't you take care of the people that make this country? Look, we're not a fully developed country in the heavy industry. Maybe medium-sized industry, maybe we have a textile that we can compete with in the world, and, sir, we can export a little bit in the automobile sector in what we call inter-malts. Other than that, there's nothing we can export. What are we gonna sell? We'll sell wheat, we'll sell corn, we'll sell cotton, we'll sell fruit, we'll sell vegetables, but unfortunately we import them! Have fear of God. And then you go out here and you brag, "No, we did this, we did this. What did you do? What did you do? You've made this country miserable. So if we could sell airplanes, if we could sell nuclear energy, let's get our wheat from outside, let's get our corn from outside, but even a strategic product as strategic as wheat you've made unplantable in this country. I got out here last year, we're going to have a problem with wheat this year, and there's going to be a lot of problems with wheat production during the wheat harvest, because I said there's a drought, and you said, "No, we're expecting 22 million tons of wheat." How many million tons is that? 18 million tons. You've brought two or three million tons of wheat from the outside. Is that a good thing? I've said it over and over again about cotton. I've brought solutions over and over. Look, our textile industry is an industry we can compete with in the world. We're really in a good place in the world. The thread, the textiles, the towel, the sock, whatever. What's the raw ingredient? Snow. If we can't produce this cotton, if we can't support the cotton farmer, if we can't get the cotton farmer to plant the cotton, the raw material... look, if you hand over the raw material of the industrial product you're competing for to outsiders, that doesn't make sense! That doesn't make any sense! In this country, we have to support cotton, we have to protect cotton farmer, we have to support because our textile industry, our competing industry, is made cotton, but we've become the world's largest cotton importer. Turkey has now, unfortunately, become the world's most cotton importer country when it has been one of the world's most cotton-producing countries in the past. The farmer of the United States earns money on our backs. Greece's farmer makes money off our backs. The farmer of India earns money on our backs. Why doesn't my brother, my farmer, know if he can't produce cotton or cotton? He makes the king's king. He makes the best. He does his best, but you don't support him. Look, there's a mibzer landing in the field. Plant corn or plant cotton? The farmer can't decide. We've asked you to explain the price of premium support as soon as possible. 55 cents last year, still nothing, 55 cents, 60 cents, 70 cents? When the Minister of Economy comes to Adana, you want $1.00 in a joint meeting with the agricultural chambers. We've set 55 cents. Let's find the middle of this, let's make 75 cents. He said, unfortunately, no hits so far. The farmer can't plant cotton after planting corn, Mr. Secretary. At least raise the bonus to support cotton business, raise the bonus. The previous year, at $1.8, 1,800,000, cotton dropped to 1.2 liras last year, down to 1.2 liras. I mean, now, how does a farmer make money under these circumstances? How's he gonna plant cotton? So, how do we support our textile industry? At this rate, we won't be able to support it. E, wheat imported meat, corn imported meat, cotton imported meat. What the hell are we selling? How do we import them? I mean, I've said it over and over, but it came from your ear, it came from your ear. Why don't you explain the bonus support, Mr. Secretary? Why don't you explain the bonus benefit? Explain, so the farmer knows, brother, whether to sow corn or to sow cotton. And now I'm saying, look, I'm a farm boy, I'm a man who farms. Egypt was 7-8 million tons last year. If your policy continues this way, 10 million tons of corn will be produced this year. Is it good that there's too much production? It's a good thing, but how much does Turkey need? Turkey needs 7-8 million tons. And you open it from the outside, sir, as if it were the border of Syria, bringing corn from the outside, bringing cotton from the outside, any way he wants. You didn't put funds in the cotton. I've said it over and over, look, it's in the transcripts, I've spoken three or four times. It's always my solution. You know, the solution. I've said it over and over again here. I said it was during the cotton harvest of fon sheep cotton. No. Did you or did you not? No. During the Egyptian era, during the corn harvest, do you fund or block corn from the outside? No. Romania makes deals with farmers who run 45,000 acres, 50,000 acres; 1 million tons, 2 million tons of corn is coming to Turkey. What if, my friend, 10 million tons of corn is produced, and there's a million tons of corn on the outside, what are we supposed to do with this corn? Then the corn farmer, the corn farmer, the corn farmer, will be miserable the year before. Last year, they made a little bit, maybe a little bit of money, but the year before that, it was a disgrace. That's what the corn producer expects next year. Look, if you don't take precautions now, the same thing is waiting for the corn producer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0198par0029	You're saying he's callous!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0197par0030	Now, look, Mr. Secretary, at the same time, when corn is planted on top of each other, it makes the soil barren. We've got a ground protection law here. Sir, then how can we protect the land if we can't protect it with agricultural policies? When you plant corn three years, four years in a row, it gets barren, but you plant corn for three years, you plant cotton for one year, you can plant corn for three more years. So the soil is getting younger, the cotton is making the soil younger, and it's also contributing to our country's economy. But I'm telling you here, you're going out: either you're criticizing all the time, the solution? So, brother, I'm telling you the solution, you don't want to listen or understand, or you're not the farmer's minister. That's the problem. So for him, please take that into consideration. Consider what we say so that farmers become people who make money. The farmer is miserable; the farmer can't plant his field, and if he's not ashamed, he'll leave his field and leave his team and plant his shame. He's in debt, he's in loans, he's in mortgages, he's planting his field. So, Mr. Secretary, please take this into consideration. And we've opened so many universities. You say, we've graduated so much. You say, sir, there are a lot of agricultural engineers who can't be assigned. You have 20,265 agro-engineering recruitment staff, and you've asked for a contract assignment of 10,000, so why don't you appoint them? Why can't you assign these agricultural engineers to serve the farmer? No, because you're not worried about the farmer. Your salt is dry, your salt is dry, and your farmers are miserable. I don't care if he's miserable! He doesn't understand, the proverb, the full, the hungry don't understand. Here you are full, your salt is dry, and you don't hear our cries, it goes in your ears, it comes out of your ears. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0199par0035	Thank you. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0039	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise regarding Mr. Mehdi Eker, the Minister of Agriculture. I salute you all. Dear friends, the AKP government, which began in 2002, really finished the village -- you know, you're going to villages. I'll explain why you're finished. Yes, at first, you brought imported meat, you finished our livestock. You've brought beans from China, from other countries, you've finished what you've produced, and it's over, it's over, it's over, there's no people left in our villages -- your eyes are bright. People migrated so badly that they became poor, poor, unemployed, so that people couldn't live with their children. Young kids, single kids can't get married, unemployed, house-sitting, miserable. Indeed, the peasant is now in a state of misery, abandoned to his own destiny. The peasant, of course, was forced to emigrate, migrate to great cities, and the villages were empty because of his end in livestock. Especially in our Kars, Ardahan, Iğdır, in these border provinces, including Pain, believe me, there are no more people, all coming west, they're all miserable in the west, people are starving and miserable. Other than that, go west, look at prisons, 98 percent of the people in prisons are east and southeast. unemployed, poor people forced out of the law, you know, let's say theft, extortion, when we do this sort of thing, our kids, they're all in prison. Dear friends, we've passed a law, postponed the farmer's debts. Actually, their interest would have been erased. When the AKP comes to power, you know, we're against interest, we don't want interest, as soon as it comes in, we're going to erase the interest on the farmers' debt, and we're going to make a down payment. It's a down payment, it's a improvement, but the interest isn't erased. Still, when there's an instalment -- which happens with high interest -- the farmer can't handle it. Dear friends, let a farmer go today, ask the bank for a loan of $5,000 or $10,000, he says: "I can't give you money. Why? Bring in the clerk's guarantor, or bring me the mortgage on his house downtown. Either he has nothing to do with the clerk, or he has nothing to do with the shop. Why would he live in the village if he had a house in the city? Why would he live in the village if he had a house in the city? Now, what happens then? The banks don't take the farmer's field, his meadow, or his barn as collateral. Because he didn't take it, he's swimming in misery. Now, dear friends, here -- I've shown you before -- I'm going to talk to the documents -- because of the policies that the Department of Agriculture is following, people are taking over their homes. Just as he took his field of execution, his cattle in his stables are taken and sold with execution, and the peasant goes crying. And sometimes, when he can't sell or when he can't, if he doesn't declare goods, the villagers go... thousands of villagers, tens of thousands of villagers have been in prison. I mean, he's grounded for ten days for not reporting property... here, here, look, this is Eskişehir 6. A document from the administration, my friends, is from Eskişehir. It's an executive document. They sold the guy's cows, guys. Now I do not show Kars, nor Ardahan, nor Ardahan. And now run from Ankara Beypazarı Executive Directorate to file number 2015. Yeah, there's 57 billion and 240 grand in debt from the farmer. The man says: I sold all my property, I couldn't pay. My house is mortgaged and my house is sold. I will give these documents to the Minister in particular here. These documents show the plight of our farmer, dear friends. Now, dear friends, red meat is very important in terms of protein, in terms of brain development, in terms of brain development, in terms of body development. But Mr. Secretary just threw it out of here so much, it's like it's rosebuds, everything's perfect, people buying proteins, eating red meat, and there's money to eat red meat. Minister, look, according to the research of KAMU-SEN, one person in Australia eats 142 kilograms of meat a year, one person in the United States eats 125kg of red meat a year, friends. Now, is there much progress in America or in Turkey? Look, in Germany, in a year of 82 kilos, in England, 80 kilos. Do you know how much Turkey weighs? And I've brought the figures for Turkey so that he wouldn't say no. The total production of red meat is 996 thousand, according to the figures given by TÜİK. When you divide it into 80 million, it weighs 12 kilos a year. So 1 person consumes 125 kilos of meat in the United States, while 1 person consumes 85 kilos of meat in the UK, while 1 person consumes 12 kilos of meat in Turkey. I mean, for God's sake, can the brain of the kid who didn't get the red meat protein improve? Can he compete with the children of America? Here, this is your report card, Mr. Secretary, give me an answer to that, these are the figures of TÜİK. Dear friends, now -- the old name of the Meat and Fish Foundation -- has become a major corruption at the Meat and Milk Foundation. Now, he's on trial at the Centipede High Criminal Court. There's a letter of notice to the Lüleburgaz Prosecutor's Office, my friends, saying that at the Meat and Fish Association, there's this sick, diseased dead animal selling, people getting poisoned. Now, I've brought meat here, there's meat here, and I'll show it to you now. The prosecution has conducted research, arrested 15 people, including Hijazi, an importer of animals, and the prosecution's indictment states that a cut has been made without veterinary control. Even though the cuts were broken, it was made to appear to be destroyed by a false veterinary report, but the meats in question were sold. They make it look like they've been destroyed. They sell diseased meat. That's the D.A.'s case, fellas. See, some of the meats of dead animals and animals that were supplied with tuberculosis or shap disease from the Piyasa have been banished to the Istanbul market and have been sold. The inhabitants of Istanbul have been burned.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0201par0049	Where is he, the indictment?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0050	Yes, the prosecution's indictment. He's also on trial in the 40s, so I'll give you his file number. You know what the opposite is? All 15 of those prisoners were left behind, no charges. Now, dear friends, this is why I'm telling you this. They made us eat diseased, fattened, pummeled meats, and here are their papers. I'll have the Minister explain it to you. Look, I'll show you the meat with the receipt. Dear friends, look, what's really happening here is that there's disease in imported meat, not in native meat. Turkey has no meat produced by our own village. Don't eat the meat of our own village and the goods and the goods, but don't eat the internal organs and the giblets of the imported animals. Mr. Secretary sent a letter to the governors of the county. I'm going to say it now. Is our Veli here?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0202par0054	No parents.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0055	Look, my friends, Malatya Current has written an article in this newspaper: "Emergency destroy the giblets of imported animals." Mr. Secretary has written to all the county managers, writing here, friends. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Muzaffer Aydemir wrote for the Minister. I read it in the press, and it says: "Don't sell it, don't sell it in January, and immediately, when it was understood how it was sacrificed to the imported meat game, which Bayram Polatbaş, head of the Chamber of Agriculture, faced with the statement of Bayram Poletbaş, the Minister of Agriculture and Village Affairs sent a letter to make sure that the large and small animals imported are not consumed, to be sold, to be destroyed." There they said again: "For six months no meat has been cut in Malatya, no animals come from Adana. Look, again, Bajram Polatbaş said: There has been no slaughter for six months. From Adana, the meats that we don't know are sold in Malatya. I mean, they came from Adana, they were sold in Malatya, when the internal organs were supposed to be destroyed. Now, this is the current Malatya newspaper. I took this, and I wrote an article to the Minister to confirm whether this is true or what it is, so I asked for information according to the Right to Information Act 4982. I said: Mr. Secretary, there is such news. Send me the document you sent to the governorships or governors about this article. Look, friends, do you know what the answer is? It's an inscription to be more careful. There's no destruction. We wrote an article to be more careful and they didn't give it to us. What have I done? I didn't get cold feet, I found it somewhere. Now, I'm going to read the letter the Minister sent to the governors. You're all poisoned, I'll tell you that. Look, he's talking to the county managers. The subject: Live butchery imports cattle and sheep. As it is known, importing butchery is important because of the destruction and pursuit of brain, eye, spinal cord, tonsil and distalylaum, called specific risk material in slaughterhouses of living cattle and small animals. The brain, eye, spinal cord, tonsil and distal and distal and the spleens of sheep of all ages, and the eyes and eyes of animals of twelve months, including skulls, tonsils and spinal cords of cattle, which are imported to our country, and the eyes and eyes and eyes of animals of larger animals of twelve months, must be removed in the shortest period of time. Look. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Muzafer Aydemir General Manager. Now go ahead and burn it from here, Mr. Secretary. Guys, look, we're all congressmen, we have a responsibility to society. I mean, can that happen? Hiding something like this... I'm an MP, friend, I'm asking you... according to the Information Act. Why don't you give this to me? I go around and find this document three years later. Look, here's... Then tell me, Mr. Secretary, that there are diseases in the giblets of animals coming from outside. You say, "It's a risk; burn them, bury them." Now, in what province, where did you bury the giblets of these diseased animals, please tell me that. Tell me where, in which province you buried him, brother. Or from here, because of this disease, did people die or not in Malatya, Istanbul, Adana? In what province of Turkey did people die because of this illness? Now I'm inviting prosecutors from here, brother. Have them look into it, find out if there are people in the hospitals who died of these diseases or not? The AKP government will pay for this, you'll pay for it, you'll have to pay for it. There's no other way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We have a responsibility here, guys. Here, this is your document. Now and immediately, burn it down, you say. Deputy Director of the Group, Bostancioglu, speak up, brother.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0203par0069	"Naki Bostancı."
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0070	Anyway, it's a bostanist.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0203par0071	It doesn't have to be.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0072	Now, wait a minute. Okay, I'm sorry. Now, dear friends, hold on, hold on.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0204par0074	The minister is sitting there, Mr. Öğütün.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0075	Now, hold on.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0205par0076	What's coming out of the bag?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0206par0077	It stinks.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0078	Now, dear friends, just a minute, you'll be fine.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0206par0079	It stinks, Mr. Ensar.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0080	It's protein, don't worry. Look, it's...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0207par0082	It's meat.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0083	This is meat, Mr. Secretary. A lady named Gulfen Ibiş got this from a meat and milk company of yours.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0208par0084	Does it belong to the Department of Agriculture?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0085	Yes, it's from the Meat and Milk Company store, a store in Kızılay. I told you his name.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0209par0086	When did he get it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0087	He just bought it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0210par0088	Do you have a receipt?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0089	Here's the receipt. Sure, I'll come with this. No slandering. There's a receipt here.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0211par0090	His receipt?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0212par0091	Let him not be like the plug of the falls of victory
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0093	It says: I took this meat, I took it home, I cooked it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, if you'll excuse me. Wait a minute, guys. I took this meat, I took it home, I cooked it, it smelled of meat. And then I went, "Yeah, this meat is bad, it stinks." What is this, why are you giving this to me? I don't understand. Yes, you feed the stinky meat to people, and, people, if these people are dying here, I invite the Health Department, the prosecutors, to do this research in hospitals, absolutely. Dear friends, give my name to Gülfen Ibiş, for I have complained to 174, and no one has been interested. Now, dear friends, this is...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0213par0100	Head.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0101	Yeah, that's the head. That's the head, guys. This head, look, it's a sheep's head.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0214par0102	Why don't you bring all the giblets over here?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0103	Look, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0214par0104	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0105	Mr. Secretary says...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0214par0106	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0107	Sir, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Secretary is writing an article saying: "Don't eat, destroy, bury, burn." Yes, Mr. Secretary, did those who ate these heads get poisoned or not? If he was poisoned, where was he poisoned or buried? In what provinces, where did you bury these heads, brother? Here's the head. As they say, you smile like a cooked head, yes, no one smiles like a cooked head. Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0214par0109	Why are you telling Mr. Oktay, don't smile like a rotten head?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0110	It's a fact, brother. Yeah, it's a...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0215par0111	Is that what caused the poisoning at the Department of Agriculture?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0112	Look, here it is, this rotten meat, that's the head, brother. Please, I beg you, let's stop the imported meat, no imported animals. It's an imported animal's cripple. Do you know why? Now, I'm gonna tell you guys something. Let's say there's so much disease in the giblet of imported meat, right, it causes cancer, it kills people. So, is it the same giblet, the same disease or not? Mr. Secretary, come and tell me.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0215par0113	There was poisoning at the Department of Agriculture, could that be it?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0114	It could be. Now, look, folks, once again, if an animal's internal organs and giblets are poisoned, is the same poison the same disease passed on to the flesh or not? I asked the scientists, some of them might be. Some of them might not be. But most of them said, "Yes, it does, because in the internal organs... do you know why it happens, my friends?" Because most of the animals that come from the outside, they've got giblets as big as the fat and the fat of the pigs, and because they eat it, you're feeding us pork.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0216par0116	Oh, my God, they're feeding us pork.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0117	I don't approve of my rights, and I say here, Mr. Secretary, most importantly, if there are people dying of these diseases, please explain it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0217par0118	You've been carrying it all along, and you've been sick, just so you know.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0200par0119	I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0218par0121	Now leave that head there and let them do an autopsy, see if it's really poisonous.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0219par0122	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0126	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I've been promised to answer for the AK PARTY on behalf of our Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker. I salute you all. Respected lawmakers, with two genes in a row, almost all the party groups, everyone, threw the stone out of their skirt. So we watched these. Honourable MPs, of course, some of the figures, as long as you say, we say, as long as everyone accepts theirs, as long as they insist on it, there's no way a citizen can make much sense out of it. When you talk about things in a timeline, you have to have projections of the past, the new, the old, the present, and the future, when you're describing the processes in which the human, the animal, is in the living, so that people can understand what you're saying and do a comparison. Turkey, in fact, is a self-sufficient country in agriculture, in livestock, as we always say.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0221par0129	It was, it was.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0130	Of course, this has become a phrase that's been misunderstood and used as wrong these days. In the 1980s, Turkey had a population of about 50 million people, and Turkey was a country that produced what it needed in agriculture and livestock.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0222par0131	When?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0132	But after the 1980s, there were serious errors in Turkey, especially in agriculture and animalism. What were they? With the Constitution of the coup, after the Constitution of 1982...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0223par0133	What does the Constitution have to do with livestock? Oh, have a heart!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0134	...especially, friends, when austerity measures were introduced in the creation of agricultural policies, first of all, agricultural support and animal support were cut off and exports were encouraged. With more than 50 million sheep in Turkey at the time, these supports were cut off, while exports were encouraged, with serious sheep coming out to Saudi Arabia, and countries around it, especially the buyers. By 2002, our animal presence was reduced to 25 million sheep, our goat presence dropped from 11 to 12 million to 5 million, our cattle presence dropped from 13 to 14 million to 9.5 million. Of course, by the way, since 2002, our prosperity in Turkey has begun to grow dramatically. Over 30 million tourists have begun to come to this country. Our villager's national income went from a thousand dollars to $3,500. The average income of people in the country has increased to $11,000. And it's a fact that it's perfectly acceptable: prosperity in countries is now increasing, especially the demand for animal products, the demand for red meat increases. Similar situations have occurred in our country, and our country has become unable to respond to this person, tourist, and the demand for prosperity at certain times.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0223par0135	Teacher, tell us about the connection between animalism and the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0136	These days, people wanted to, but they didn't get enough. In this case, what governments need to do is take measures to protect their consumer, which is one of the most important things the government has to do. Compared to the world's precedents and the market in there, think about our meat prices at that time, they were very high, and they needed to be met, and, yes, imports were opened. It was opened, but this activity, which was in the consumer's favor for a period of time, then became a problem for the manufacturer. The Ministry of Agriculture has done a very good job of tracking it, leaving it at a point where it protects the consumer and the manufacturer, by increasing customs duties in a certain way. Friends, governments don't have to ignore the other side if they're just looking out for one side. I mean, both sides of the country have to protect both the manufacturer and the consumer. Later, with the Constitution of 1982, we had another problem with these austerity measures. What was that? Especially in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, where small animalism has been intense, there has been a plague of terror in the country, and then in the villages, especially in rural areas, small animalism is no longer possible. For example, there have been nine million reductions in the number of small animals in the Eastern Anatolian region alone, and yet our villager, who cannot maintain living standards in villages, quickly went from peasantry to major cities, causing serious problems in major cities. At the same time, our village population of 40 per cent fell to 23 per cent of these migrations, 24 (24), to the 25th (25), to the 23 per cent. So there used to be one person who had to produce another person in this country, and after all these years, one person had to produce three other people other than himself. Over the years under the pressure of production, of course, at certain times -- especially in agriculture and animalism -- it's a fluctuating sector of climate-related land conditions -- we've had serious problems. But what do you have to look at? You have to look at the results cumulatively, so statistics, statistics... not everyone tells math lies, but no one believes the numbers they say. Friends, you've always claimed that the support for agriculture, which should be given 1 percent, has never reached those numbers. In fact, friends, it's quite wrong. Turkey has never provided agricultural support under 1 per cent, even in the previous years of this law. The total support for agriculture and animalism in Turkey today is more than two per cent, so the support you say should be 1 per cent is now more than 2 per cent. See, at the same time, when Turkey gives 2 per cent, the average of the European Union is 0.75 per cent; the average of the OECD is 0.76 per cent; Turkey, more or less, is a country that supports agriculture and animalism three times as much as these countries. What's in this? Look, just don't think of the money you put directly into the farmer's account as agricultural support, respected lawmakers. In this, look, there's cash agricultural support -- $11 billion in cash agricultural support this year -- there's DSI's irrigation investments, land collection investments, agricultural product acquisitions, subsidies to agricultural loans, export supports to agricultural products. They're all self-help pencils for agriculture and animalism. When you add them up, the 0.5 percent of what you're talking about is twice as much as 1.2% of what you're talking about.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0224par0140	This looks like Nasrettin Hodja's account, Hajji!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0141	And let me tell you something else: there's a pen the world uses called the equivalent value of productive support. What's the equivalent value of productive support? It shows the rate of support within the manufacturer's revenues. Friends, it's very important, it's the most important criteria in the world. Look, in 2002, Turkey had 14.3 per cent of the producers' income. This value is 30 per cent in the European Union, 28.8 per cent in OECD countries in 2001. This year, as of last year, in Turkey, as of 2013, this 19.2 per cent has increased by 19.8 per cent on the European Union average; the OECD average has increased by 18.2 per cent in Turkey; in this decade, the average of the European Union and the OECD averages have also fallen downward. So, Turkey continues to increase its agricultural support every year. Now, one of Ensar Bey's claims is that this mad cow disease, what we call, bovin spongiform encephalopathy, is a disease that has emerged in England, spread throughout Europe. It says here that the Ministry of Agriculture had written an article saying: "Destroy these internal organs and remove them." Friends, it's already in the nature of this disease because these creatures, smaller than the prion structures that create this disease, can't be activated by heat, and even in autoclaves, you can only eliminate it in 134 degrees centigrade in 18 minutes. As a precaution, I mean, then, even in the electron microscope, these are the creatures that you can barely see, you can hardly see in immunohocystical dyes, you can't see in microscopes. So, just to be safe, the Ministry did a very nice thing. If they did, congratulations from here to the Minister and his team. Europe was doing it as a precaution, and we had to do it to protect our people. And it's a great app. Other than that, there's something that's alleged to be a gene question, and you have to answer it. It is said that the Ministry of Agriculture, the EC PARTY governments, did not support the farmer enough, they did not allow him to use loans enough, so they made the farmer's condition worse every day. Friends, the total amount of the loan the farmer used when the EC PARTY arrived is 560 million Turkish liras in 2002. Do you know how much the AK PARTY is after it comes in? $22.5 billion. So I'll tell you something that's 45 stories up, and I'll tell you something more important: the return rate of those 560 million is 39 to 51 percent, according to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan, but the return rate of the farmer's loan, along with the AK PARTI, is 98 to 99%. So the citizen used more credits and somehow turned his wheel, won, and paid again with his sweat. Friends, Department of Agriculture... today, I wish you'd see, I'm proud of you as a scientist. Look, as our numbers grow, our animal presence and so on, we need to increase our efficiency as our village populations decline. That doesn't mean you have to fight the numbers, with the words of the porter. Look, today the Biotech Center was established in Turkey. It's a very important development, and it's a structure that will now produce the healthy, adequate, balanced, safe, and reliable food that our people need.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0225par0148	Teacher, let's find out how you put together the Constitution and animalism.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0149	You have to understand, we don't have to stay in our old knowledge, we need to renew it, and I'm saying we need to follow the Department of Agriculture better.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0226par0150	Hodja, tell me how much support you've given to the importer of animals.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0151	I advise our Minister of Agriculture to trust the AK PARTY, and to make a suggestion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0226par0152	You left $6.8 billion in customs taxes to importers.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0153	The opposition party speakers who come here often say: "Yes, June 7th, wait, my people, we are coming. The people know you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0226par0154	He knows about you, he knows about you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0220par0155	If you don't say it, if you forget it, maybe you'll come; if you think of it in public, you'll never get a chance to come, I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0227par0157	Explain how you put the Constitution and animalism together, Hajji!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0226par0158	These people know you too, you'll see.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0228par0159	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'm here to inform you of the issues expressed in the debates given by the Republican People's Party Group. Now, first of all, the opposition, of course, wants as much responsibility as power, and the opposition, the opposition, as much information as being a member of power, takes effort, effort, and wants to analyze matters correctly. Now, for the record, for the record, The things that are expressed here, believe -- if only there were time -- are these things, if I say them in sentences -- are all affakis, and most of them are unrealistic and exaggerated. I mean, if there was one real thing in it, I'd kiss it and put it on my head. So for example, let's say the price of fertilizer has increased four times in the world, and we have 3.6 times more in the world, and we have 8 times more in the world! You know what I mean? I mean, everywhere you look, the numbers are really worse than each other. The opposition shouldn't be like this. Opposition, really, you know, it's just, you know, on screens or records like this, unconnected, unrelated...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0229par0167	You've finished the ministry, there's no opposition left, tell me about it! It's not exactly telling what happened, it's turning into an event, it's turning into a bet. So, even the friends who give you the gene, those who have signatures on their backs, they don't even listen here. It's an important institution, it's a serious institution. If this matter is important enough to be asked about a minister, then it needs to be kept in detail and presented to the public with the right information. Now, before we get into the animal situation, look, there's been a lot of talk about cotton. Where is the seed of Egypt? And it was said, "Do you have seed or not?" Dear friends, right now there are 11 kinds of corn seeds in Turkey, 7-8 types of cotton seeds; they're being used, and that's what our citizens are buying. These are native species, these are the species we developed, these are being used. It was called a cotton bonus. When we took over, the cotton's bonus was eight and a half cents a pound, and we raised it to 55 cents a pound.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0230par0172	Forget you took over, Mr. Secretary! Look at this moment, look at this moment! Look, from 8.5 cents to 55 cents.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0231par0174	Cotton production's down. Wait a minute... it didn't go down. In 2015, we only pay $1 billion 200 million in cotton bonuses. The only money we're paying for cotton bonuses is $1 billion,200 million Turkish liras. We've increased the bonus by 6.5 times, including diesel, fertilizer, seeds, et cetera. By the time we arrived, 19 per cent of the cost of cotton was being covered, as support, the current cotton cost is at 45 per cent of the support rate.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0177	Can you tell me what the production is? Now, the wheat foreign trade has been discussed. No, can you tell me how to make cotton? GIDA, FORGIVE AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER Snow is about wheat... now, only the imports of wheat are spoken of, the coming out of flour. I'll tell you. Well, if you understand agriculture, don't you know that wheat imports in Turkey are made for it, not just by the internal processing regime, but also by the flour, including the dandruff, are produced a lot of products, including cookies, and these are exported. Okay. Now, he's saying his import, he's just saying his flour in exports, he's not saying the other one. I'll tell you about his exports. Please excuse me. Now, look, the import in Turkey between 2003 and 14 is 33 million tons -- not because we need it, but because we need it -- to process it and export it -- from 2003 to 14 years to today. In 2014, it exported 39,897 million tons. I mean, what's the difference? About 7 million tons. I mean, we exported 7 million tons more than we imported. Now, here, Turkey imports wheat, does not export wheat, is a net importer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0233par0189	Imaginary Minister, imaginary.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0190	Excuse me, how many million tons did you export? Can you say that again? Give me the number again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0233par0191	Those numbers fool you, those imaginary numbers. Look, it's not true. 6 million 822,000 tons of Turkey's foreign trade surplus in wheat, about 7 million tons.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0193	Mr. Secretary, how many million tons of wheat have you imported in 2014? It's 4 million tons! 4 million tons of wheat would have 7 million tons of export? Now, my dear brothers, we have $6.2 billion more than we import, $6.2 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0234par0195	Imaginary export.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0196	You're saying the numbers wrong, Mr. Secretary. You seem to have the truth! Go! Look at TÜİK.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0235par0198	Imaginary figures. SEEDA, LOOK AT THE MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI ACTIVITY, OK?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0200	You imported 4 million tons of wheat, how are you going to export it, 7 million tons? No, it's not true. How in God's name did you export 7 million tons? I don't know if it's breeding on its own. Now, dear friends, about livestock, it's said in 1980. You exported 1 million 649 thousand tons. Do you know what happened in 1980? Turkey has 16 million animals in 1980. It's called...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0236par0206	That was 35 years ago. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER WHY? In fact, we received 9.8 million head animals in 2002, 9.8 million cattle, that's 2002. Thou shalt judge me with it, and thou shalt tell me what I have put upon the 9.8.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0232par0208	Why? You judge the past... 22 years from 1980 to 2002, 22 years ago, SHP, MHP, ANAP, DYP, DSP, all in power, they dropped it, I don't know how many times they dropped it to me. I took over 9.8 million, 14 million today. Now, I'm telling you the production. Mr. Secretary, the population was 44 million, now 78 million. I bought the production of Turkey from 8.4 million tons of milk today, how many? 18.5 million tons. Turkey's net milk production increased in addition to 10 million tonnes during our time. In 2002, Turkey produced 420,000 tonnes of red meat; today, two weeks ago, it was announced by TÜİK, 1 million 4,000 tonnes.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0237par0214	How much is illegal, Mr. Secretary? All of this, all of this production is local. Tell me about the escaped red meat operation! Now, you're not going to say these things... so the opposition shouldn't just be so cheap. I mean, with opposition concerns...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0238par0218	And you don't order exports, imports! We shouldn't be saying things without so many books.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0237par0220	What about the escaped meats, the escaped meats?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0238par0221	But you're wrong about the numbers, they tricked you! It's called cheap polymics, then it's called petty opposition. Well, then, that's just a cheap government. This is not based on a plan, on an account, on a project.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0239par0225	Tell me more about the meat smuggling company, Mr. Secretary. Look, I've taken over 83 million of Turkey's support for all animalism, I've raised it to $3 billion year-on-year, year-on-year. In no time have you ever seen it in the Republic of Turkey in total agricultural support.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0240par0227	So that's how you took over from Sami's Power? We've taken it from 83 million dollars, the money we've spent on animalism in our 2015 budget is $3 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0241par0229	Mr. Secretary, I asked you a question, a support bonus, the last seven years. Both Turkey's meat production and milk production increased. So, the number of animals... look, we're the first ones in the history of the Republic to support the number of sheep. Before our rule, at no time in history, the Republic of Turkey was not part of the support of sheep and goats. There was no need for them to produce and earn. You finished it! Sir, it's not, it's not, it's not, none of them are true... You didn't need to! You finished it! We took over 31.8 million from the beginning today, 42 million heads. There were 44 million populations, 49 million minors; 78 million populations, 19 million minors now. Now, this is not the import account. Imported in your time, too. Nothing was done in our time. In 1925, 1935, 1960... Bravo! Come on, come on! Let's talk about time! Let's talk about the Republic, about 1923! Come on, let's talk! Let's talk about all the investments in 1923! Look, wasn't SHP in power between 1991 and 1995? At that time, Turkey also imported hundreds of thousands of breeding animals and imported red meat.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0242par0241	Minister, why did you receive that knight's medal? Tell me about him. Under them, under them, under the fact that imports were stopped at that time was my signature as General Manager. In 1996, we stopped it at that time because of the problems in the world -- we need to see it again -- because of the problems in the world. Now, lawmakers, Turkey's animal product has tripled. In total, it was $5.9 billion, total animal products in Turkey, and we raised it to $18.1 billion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0243par0244	Minister, I wish you'd come out with a medal! I'm telling you, this is the first time in the Republic of Turkey, before 2013, the breed of gestation was made from Turkey. There is no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0242par0246	Then there was no minister who received the medal! Look, we did this. Turkey's first export of livestock, breeding, pregnant heifer exports were done in our day.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0244par0248	Yeah, the first straw import was given to you, the first live meat was given to you. Do you know what a Cadillac is, Mr. Secretary, a Cadillac? Is that a Cadillac? Angus, is that a Cadillac car? So in all of these, both sheep and goats, in all of these exports, we have our projects, we developed them, we made agriculture and animalism an important sector in Turkey, and Turkey is an animal exporter in 2013 in 2014. The record of exports in terms of animal products in the history of the Republic has also been broken at the time of the AK PARTI government. Now, like this, with singular events, unlike the way the world's going, you stop and you take this here, and you take this here...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0245par0251	Fugitive meat is definitely AK PARTY governments... In the world, I've just told you all about it in plant production, and I'll tell you the same thing in animal products.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0244par0253	Mr. Secretary, you just mentioned 129 countries in exports. For God's sake, how many countries do you import from? Tell me about it. Now, I don't take any of the shows that are being done here seriously, and I don't take them seriously. (APPLAUSE) Those Thracian animals of yours were sold. It has been determined that they were all buried by the prosecution's decision, so the claim that such carcasses were sold is a disgusting lie, it is not true, it was done by the prosecution's decision. The verdict is...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0246par0255	You're changing the D.A. by court order. Wasn't the deputy director of the Meat Fish Foundation arrested with the manager of Angus farm? The trial continues. Don't talk about such things about an ongoing court, it's not true. You're the one who's not telling the truth!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0247par0258	Mr. Secretary, stop fooling these people! Stop cheating! We also know that some of Turkey's great struggle to undermine its fight against the hilt disease, some of them were taken to the Bosphorus Bridge, where they were taken and taken to the police and retreated.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0248par0260	Who is it, Mr. Secretary? The whole Turkish public has been through this. That's how serious this is. And I'm sorry if it's not so serious, there's not gonna be any project, and people won't pay for it, so you'll just have to do your show.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0249par0262	You call the Thracian region aari, where's Ari? It's because of the clap... I salute all of you. God be with you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0250par0265	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0251par0266	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0249par0267	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0252par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0253par0269	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0254par0270	Sir, in his speech, the Minister in general accused the opposition and the Republican People's Party of doing cheap politics. The sentence "small politics" is a direct taunt of our party. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0255par0271	Mr. President, so do we. Mr. Secretary is a very expensive politician, of course, doing very expensive politics that cost people money, so he accused the opposition of making cheap politics. Mr Muharrem Varli will speak to him to answer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0253par0272	We'd better find a way to deal with this.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0255par0273	So, you're gonna make it up to him? How much?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0253par0274	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0256par0277	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I expected a number from Mr. Minister of Agriculture, but in fact he didn't give these numbers, he gave a few numbers, but they weren't the numbers that sum up the basics. Unfortunately, the ruling party spokesman who came up here didn't give us realistic figures. What's the measurement, fellas? How much resources are earmarked for agricultural support? What was it in 2002, and what is it now? If that number has increased, you should congratulate the Minister, if it hasn't increased, if it has declined, the Minister has no right to brag. Look, when we exclude interest, the rate of agricultural support spending to non-interest spending is 2.75 per cent in 2002, which is 2.41 per cent at the end of 2014, and now 2.42 per cent in 2015. You've fallen behind 2002, Mr. Secretary. I don't see a painting here to brag about. This is the Agriculture Report of the Republican People's Party. Here are all the numbers on agriculture, all of them. Agricultural products do not have one product that has increased production today compared to 2002. It's all here. You said the word cotton, but you didn't go into the cotton because it wasn't an area you could enter. You said your tongue slipped, you didn't follow, I want to continue. In 2002, Turkey produced 1 million tonnes of cotton -- rounded up -- 998 thousand tons. Now, that number is down to 878 thousand tons. In 2002, the amount of cotton we planted is 7 million and 210 thousand, and now 4 million and 508,000. That's what all agricultural products are like. Even so, Mr. Secretary, I don't think you have the right to paint a bright picture, to brag. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0257par0284	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Varli. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0258par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Secretary came in here and tried to get his head around the numbers all the time. Which of the subjects have you been able to answer, Mr. Secretary? So is cotton-picking finished in Turkey or not? It's not over, it's not over. It's over. How many thousand tons of cotton do we produce? Tell me, how many thousand tons of cotton do we produce?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0259par0294	He can't, he doesn't know.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0258par0295	I don't know anything about a million tons of cotton if we can produce 300,000 tons of cotton next year. We're here, God willing, we'll see each other. You don't even know! Now, you've finished cotton-picking. With bonus support... look, I've talked to you here many times, and I've shown you the transcripts. Explain the Prim support quickly, and the cottonman will plant cotton. But you don't have a click, you don't have a sound. After that, you come out here, sir, giving false information. You gave me eight and a half cents, we're giving you 55 cents, what else can I say? Look, Mr. Secretary, I'm a cotton-picking person, and I've told you over and over again how much cotton is necessary for this country. Well, sir, we exported this much flour in wheat. How do you export wheat when Turkey can't provide its own needs?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0260par0300	They know the trade, they know how to buy and sell, they know how to win.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0258par0301	Mr. Secretary, I've said everything I've said here, as a farmer, I've been through the trouble of a farmer, but I wish you'd come and talk to me in Adana, Adana, where the farmers are abundant, in Karataş, Ceyhan Plain, where we'll all go together - I'll protect you there, and I won't beat you up, and don't be afraid -- don't be afraid. Letters of thanks are coming from Adana. Why don't you talk to the farmers over there? I wish you'd come out here with the title of Chancellor you took from France so that the Turkish nation could see better who was the minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0261par0306	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0262par0307	Yes, Mr. Öğüt, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0261par0308	He lied about the numbers I told him. He said, "I'll explain it."
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0262par0309	Here you go, Mr. Reminder. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0261par0312	Mr. President, dear friends, now that the Minister has done something about these numbers, he hasn't explained it once here, he's passed on, he's informed, he's ignorant. Now, I ask you, in America, how much does one person eat every year? He's eating 125 kilos. How much does Turkey weigh? 12 kilos. You know, where you developed agriculture, livestock, and people eat meat, grow brains, get protein, tell me about it. Did you improve it, brother? Turkey eats 12 kilos a year, average of one person per year. Well, there's also the, uh, 996 tones when you divide them into 80, 12 kilograms...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0263par0314	He's doing cholesterol, Congressman, cholesterol! GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ Their pig is 83 percent...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0261par0316	No, sir. For that, friends, once the Minister of Agriculture has to apologize to everyone here. He made people eat diseased meat. Look, some of you weren't here just now. If you count the pig as red meat. He writes to the county managers, saying, "Look, is the record kept or not kept, Mr. Secretary, by being buried or burned in a chain of food or food?" GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) holding.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0264par0321	Where?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0261par0322	Where are the records? Why don't you say that, brother? Then bring the records, I want him to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Yes, toxic internal diseases... so they're poisonous, bury them, destroy them, absolutely don't use them. We didn't say poison, read the paper right. Hold their record. You say. If those records are kept, I want them here, brother. You can't read the paper right. I'm reading the paper correctly, and you're saying, "I'd like to make sure that the records are kept." Look, it doesn't say "poison" on that paper. You're saying there's a holding record, brother. No, it doesn't say poison, but you said poison. He doesn't say it's poison, but he says it's sick, he says it's sick. That's a lie, that's a lie, that's a lie. Words that don't exist... Now, dear friends, it says here that there's no such thing as a Ari of the Tracia region, where there's no stupor disease. He just told me, there's a smack disease there, where the D.A. buried sick animals, and there -- he said himself -- sick animals didn't sell, they were buried. There's sickness there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] GIDE, TRACY AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ Thracian ari. It's a shame that he doesn't pass the animals from Anatolia through the Bosphorus Bridge. Why do you persecute these people like that? Mr. Secretary, do this: Then set up a station on the Gebze side, if there are animals leaving Anatolia, don't send them if they don't have the disease. Why are you doing this polemic? You don't know them, you don't know them.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0265par0338	Yes, thank you, Mr. Öpün. Yes, Mr. Halaman, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0266par0343	Mr. President, thank you. In these generic discussions, Mr. Minister explained that agriculture is good, as well as the internal processing document. Yes, Turkey's basic problem is that people import wheat from abroad, import cotton from abroad, which is the import of internal processing documents; 3-5 people are already. They're lowering the market because they're already selling these goods in Turkey, because they don't export them; they're causing the cotton not to be planted, the patent of wheat to be low. It's a job 3-5 men do. This internal processing document is not something that's in favor, it's something that's against it. I'd like him to take that into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0267par0346	Yes, thank you. Mr. Akar, please, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0268par0348	I gave you the numbers the most. Mr. Secretary said the numbers were wrong and false.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0267par0349	I don't understand. Repeat.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0268par0350	I had more numbers in my speech, but the Minister said it wasn't true and said it was wrong. It's not true.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0267par0352	Here you go, Mr. Akar, two minutes with the taunt.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0268par0356	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, the Minister here has actually twisted all the numbers himself. Because when you look at wheat imports and look at 70 percent of the flour produced by it, 1 million 846 thousand tons of wheat were imported in 2003, only 593,000 tons of flour were exported. Look, it's just flour. Read the others, you're just saying the flour, and I fixed it. Three million 287,000 tons of wheat imported in 2014, only 1 million 649 thousand tons of this, I can give you in numbers, I can give you in terms of financial value, all the numbers the minister said are wrong. Look, during the 12 years of AKP, 31 million tonnes of wheat were imported during the 11-year Minister's era. No, 33 million. It was paid $9.2 billion, which is $23 billion for Turkish money, 23 quadrillion for those who don't understand, for those who don't. I said 33 million. Now, is it just wheat? Look, 10 million tons of corn was imported during the AKP period, and $2.5 billion was paid in return, and I'm just saying that for Turkish money, $6.25 billion or quadrillion, it's understandable. But corn production has increased. I'll tell you why corn is growing: Cargill needs corn. So this, you know, sweetener production, is harmful to the human body, the sweetener that's banned in Europe, which isn't quotad, so here's Cargill, we're making corn bass to produce it in Turkey, and thank you, you've increased corn production. But you poison people. This time, Mr. Secretary, you're poisoning people by increasing their quota of 50 per cent with the decision of the Council of Ministers of Cargill. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), that lie, that information is a lie. We didn't poison anyone, you did. Again, fatty seed, these friends are the real pain, that's the real pain, listen to this. We imported $24.5 billion in fatty seeds and derivatives. Do you know how much it costs for Turkish money? $61 billion, 61 quadrillion. Mr. Secretary, this is your success, you've made Turkey look like this! I pay my respects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] THE GEDA, THE AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) ▪ The nation determines success.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0269par0373	Talks on whether or not to bring up the motion on the motion to be a genotype of food, agriculture and livestock Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker has been completed.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0270par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0269par0375	Let me finish, and then I'll give it to you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0270par0376	Sir, it's about this.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0269par0377	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0270par0378	Now, a lot of messages are coming in, Mr. Minister. How many people will you have to hire as an agricultural engineer in April? The citizens are waiting. I'm done, so are we. They're asking if the Minister can give us a number. Therefore, we'd appreciate it if you could give Parliament some information on this matter.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit04spe0269par0379	Yes, thank you. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on whether or not the motion to be brought up. All those who have agreed to the motion for the motion to be brought up... those who have refused... the motion for the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0269par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 5th place, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and banan MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law Order for Amendment in Some Laws and Law Laws; and the Law Order for Laws to Be Changed in Some Laws; and the Minister of the National Education Party for Law and Orders of Law: Mehmet Akif, Minister of Law for Law; the Minister of Law for Education, Manisa MP Free Special's Committee for Public Institutions, and the Minister of Law for Services, and the Committee for Change in Some Laws. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the vote of the substances in the last chapter of the proposal, which was considered the basic law, had been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers between 16 and 30th Articles, including the temporary article 1. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Demir Çelik is a member of the Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0271par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the second part of the negotiating bag bill of 705 rows. I salute you all. One of the basic paradoxes that we face in the second chapter is that we encourage a person to have multiple children. In a place where poverty, hunger, unemployment, youth unemployment is at an extreme level of 20 per cent, where there are about 13 to 14 million unemployed, it is not the law's job to encourage our unemployed to have jobs in production and employment, encourage them to have jobs, rather than to fulfill their needs, to give people a part of the quiet share of having children. This is the work of a third-rate country that is at least left behind in democracy; it is a political structure with populism trying to tame people's hunger, poverty, and vote from there. So it's not moral, it's not ethical, it's not moral, it's therefore, to condemn people with this kind of encouragement, with money per child. Besides, even today, when we read that Turkey's current potential for agriculture and animalism, which many of its users have expressed in the genome, is that it cannot meet the needs of 78 million people, when you encourage three children today, how will you make up enough of those potentials, when you're trying to deliver 5 percent of 77 million, thousands, hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of thousands, hundreds of thousands of families, instead of 3? Or are we going to bring the population back to a controlled position by encouraging the children of the poor to die in the wars of power? In addition, you encourage marriage with dowry money, instead of finding jobs for people, making people occupational, professional agricultural engineers, occupational teachers, vocational teachers, vocational people, instead of assigning them to do so, you are in a position where people are in a position to abuse their existing, existing sensitivities. First of all, people want to give you the right to live on your own professional activities, to live on your own, without you needing us, to make it easier for the government and the government. Instead of bragging about colleges you've opened with 81, you'll be bragging about the number majority of people you've graduated to in addition to the 81 provinces you've graduated with foundation universities, you'll be bragging about assimilationist education policies at these universities that are free and autonomous, people will be able to participate in an activity that can benefit the country, the people they've learned from, the profession they've acquired, the country, humanity. You keep them from operating, instead of helping them develop their professions, our young people from work, our people from work, are facing a mental crisis today. You won't forget that we have young brothers who can't overcome their psychosomatic problems, who think suicide is the only option. Instead of solving the problem with radical solution parameters, instead of taking the problem off the agenda of the nation's people, we're approaching a problem with a palliative number of solutions, a way to dazzle, a way to exploit people's hunger, poverty, unemployment, which is what's losing. Something similar is encouraging people who don't own property to own property. For God's sake, you're either unaware of the high numbers that exist in the existing inflation road, or you're willing to promise them hope, knowing that you'll be able to contribute to the home of the poor, the needy, as you play with the emotions of the needy. For twelve years, he has been in power with the promise of fighting against bans, corruption and poverty, and has been in a position to market the future in hopes that he will sell hope at each time, that he will create the future through the trafficking of hope, and that he will provide for the needs of those without property. We are faced with a power that says it will contribute to the collection of 15,000 liras for three years. For three years, who, for what reason, how will he save it, even if he does, which apartment, which is over 100,000, with what money, how will he buy it? He lacks social security, he has no job; if he wants to get a loan, the financial institutions, the banks, first of all, he won't give him a loan because he doesn't have a job. Therefore, you have no right to darken the future of our people with the bag of laws, as you do everywhere and all the time. They, above all, need work, food; they need work as much as the air, as much as the water, as much as the bread, a free future, a country where we will live together in peace. For this to happen, universal law, democratic society law must one day be dealt with seriously, without being ignored, and this serious act of legislation must be carried out. Look, June 7, 2015, the election is 70 or so days away. In these 70 days, the country faces a historic threshold. We're having one of the most important choices in history. A historic mission now falls to political parties and to four political parties represented in parliament. This is where we, for a hundred years, have been able to bring this country in with denial, assimilation, rejection policies. Beyond that, it's no longer possible with current policies. He who meets the requirements of being a democratic, ecological and social state must first be in a position that meets the needs of society. When you approach a problem with a minority with laws, a fraction with an understanding of the interests of those who are on the side and on the side of power, you may have made it easier for them, but when you fail to meet the legitimate needs of the poor, the unemployed, the homeless, you, the economic, democratic, political, perhaps in the long run, there will be some policies that will harm you in the short term. Therefore, what needs to be done today, first of all, is not by putting society in the expectation that certain hopes can be met with the bag of laws; there is only one thing to be done by political posture, through qualified, serious, and sincere practices: the democratic republic, which is present for freedom in justice, law and peace, freedom, the democratic republic, where every thought, every individual, represents itself on the basis of a free citizen, and that has to be a democratic, egalitarian civil constitution. Legislative activity, executive activity, judicial activity should remain the essentials of a democratic republic that completes and complements each other. He says it's up to the legislature, which is the place of politics, to act on it, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0272par0039	Thank you. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0273par0043	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The AKP, which understands it will leave power and is on fire, is entering some of the arrangements for election investment. For young people who open a dowry account in the bank, who are in the system for at least three years and who are not 27 years old, it is expected to receive a dowry allowance of 20 per cent, at most 5,000 lira. Again, housing allowance in the bank is estimated to be 20 per cent of the amount of the money in the account, the maximum amount of $15,000, for the first dwelling for citizens who have opened a housing account, who have been in the system for at least three years and who do not own a home. Mr. Prime Minister says we're helping, but do you have a job for our young people? Do you have any money? If you marry, do you have any income to support your home? Our young people can't get married because of unemployment. As a matter of fact, TİK statistics show that the rate of rude marriage has decreased every year, especially because of the difficulty of living, and the rate of rude divorce has increased year after year. In the AKP, unemployment became chronic. As of December 2014, the official unemployment rate rose to 17.8 per cent, along with unemployed people who were not looking for a job, and the number of unemployed was 5.5 million. The increase in unemployment has exhausted the hopes of work and food in society. In particular, young unemployment has increased by over 20 per cent. Today, hundreds of thousands of students are unemployed, economists, entrepreneurs, unemployed; agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians are unemployed. Colleges give you practically an unemployment degree. According to the research of the income and living conditions of the TİKİK, half of the population lives in debt. During the AKP period, no social order could be established to save our citizens from poverty and provide rightful income sharing. According to the Family Ministry's 2012 Social Aid Statistics bulletin, the Integrated Social Services Information System, referred to as the inventory of unemployment, includes 6,300,000 households and 23 million people living in these households. As the ministry publishes these data every six months, it will be to hide the increase in the number of poor, which is now removed from the website. Again, Turkey's Family Construction Research, the income situation of the families in our country and the distribution of revenues were sad in February 2013, as the Ministry of Family and announced in February 2013. In Turkey, the government has discovered its own lie through its own research on real household income and income distribution. As of 2011, data from the research revealed that 61.2 per cent of the houses in Turkey tried to survive with less than 1,200 lira per month. 78.5% of the households are trying to live off 1,900 liras and below. On the other hand, because his income is less than a third of the minimum wage, the number of health insurance premiums paid by the state will be 9 million 369. Thus, we have grown and prospered by the AKP government. The rhetoric does not mean anything to the broad parts of our nation. Of course, there are those who are enriching; during the AKP, bribers, smugglers, profiteers, interesteers, contractors, poolers were the corner. Dear lawmakers, housing and dowry assistance have been so overrated by the media that the perception of housing and dowry, as if the state would meet a fifth of it. There's no telling what three years in the bank will pay. This money is being discussed on social media, which, frankly, is a classic AKP classic hoax, because it will be more than a three-year benefit. Besides, it's not considered if our citizens have money, savings that they can put in the bank and wait three years. During the AKP, the levels of savings have gone down. The proportion of domestic savings to national income has been reduced to 13.4 per cent. The savings of the household is only around 7 percent. The biggest problem of our citizens is the difficulty of living, and they are able to live on debt. The vast majority of our nation is in debt, falling short of money. In 2002, consumer loans and credit cards, which were $6.4 billion, doubled year-on-year, exceeded $360 billion as of today. The number of people who failed to pay their consumer loans and personal credit card debts increased to over 3 million people. According to official data, in the AKP period, his debt to the household increased 58 times. In 2002, families set aside only about five liras of each $100 income to pay a loan, while that amount exceeded 55 liras as of 2013. Our nation is stuck in interest. The interest payments for consumer loans and credit card debts alone amounted to $2.5 billion in 2002, and have now reached $36.5 billion; about 15 times higher. There's no charge, no commission, no case money. The non-interest money the banks received in 2014 reached $37.5 billion, and only the file money was $20 billion; 8 times more than 2002. Here is the true face of the AKP. Official figures show how the AKP made its citizen rob interest lobbies, how it drove him into debt and interest denigration. There should be a sense of shame for those who borrow from the bank, who run from the bank to the bank, who try to close their debt on another bank's credit card or credit card or even the hands of loan sharks who put our citizens in this position. Dear lawmakers, the AKP's power has come to an end and are living on its last mark. Elevated dowry allowance, such as housing allowance, will not be enough to save AKP. The AKP's government, which needs to look for good vegetables and fruit, has filled our narrow and fixed income people. Our industry and trade expert, who thinks about how he'll pay his debts even higher because of the increase in courtship, will surely file a heavy bill to the AKP's power. Our peasant and farmer, who took the world's most expensive diesel, food and fertilizer and could not plant their fields, will pay dearly for it to the one who ignored it. Millions of unemployed young people who are waiting to take the central exam and become officers will, of course, teach their own children and relatives who don't have exams for civil servants. The pensioners, sentenced to poverty, will, of course, write the book of AKP power. The subcontractors, who, despite the court's rulings, can't get a staff, are working as slaves, will have the pleasure of burying the AKP in the chest. Despite doing the same job, public employees, victims of 4/C, surrogates, nurses, family health workers, business and professional advisors, master teachers, university graduates, seasonal and temporary workers look forward to the day when they will answer to AKP. Those who tell people, "There's no pockets of coffee." They tell them, "They own their crates, shoe boxes, villas, who hoard dollars, euros, where we're all going, they tell people, "We're all going to go to a six-foot hole." Those who say, "They're going to build a 1.150-room runaway palace with the money of the nation, they're going to bury the Turkish nation in the pit." Our last-minute parliamentary imams and muezzins, who have been blocked from their position, will eagerly perform their final task for the AKP, which will turn into political waste. Our tradesman and artist, who are having trouble paying the business rent, who are asked to be fed to the capital lobby, will be happy to distribute the AKP's candy. The nationalist movement is our nation's hope. The National Movement Party is marching towards power. I say walk with us, Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0274par0053	Thank you. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0275par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the majority of the second part of Proposition 705. I salute you all. Of course, the hardest speeches are the talks on the broadest of the bag of laws because the bag doesn't have a majority of the laws, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't have a soul. It's very difficult to talk about the general, because there's no general logic, because there's no common sense, there's no dissolution, there's no unrelated arrangements. Hence, friends who come to the bench often need to express their opinions about a number of substances that they see in general as they speak on the general issue. That's what I'm gonna do. The most dangerous substance for the second part is the 16th article. In fact, the 16th article, which is the most dangerous item of the law, and the effect it will have on capital markets in the middle and long term that it will have on capital markets, in terms of punishment, criminal law, includes a set of regulations that will make both capital markets and AKP Group extremely difficult and difficult to leave. What is being done in Article 16? Article 107 of the 16th Article (2) of the SPK Act makes the following arrangement: "All of these verbs include market fraud, a part of the market fraud set up in the SEC Law, which gives false false or misleading information to influence the prices, values, or decisions of investors. ..and after doing all these fraud activities, those who benefit will be sentenced to two to five years in prison and five thousand days in criminal fines. Now, it's very clear here that the criminal responsibility of those who do all these verbs is tied to the benefit of the work and transactions of those who perform those verbs. So this is extremely wrong. Therefore, those who carry out these verbs will not face criminal responsibility unless they provide a direct or indirect benefit. That's what we'll conclude when we read it backwards, and it's a very wrong arrangement. Some people, some people and institutions are trying to protect themselves here. Speaking of the Republican People's Party on Articles, the valuable speakers will provide more detailed information, more detailed thoughts. Now, the 19th, 20th, and 21st articles, and a number of following substances, mostly, organise social benefits. Now we, as a social democratic party, as a principle, are not opposed to social benefits as the Republican People's Party. As an extension of being a social government, we consider it the right of every citizen to be a citizen, a permanent and right-based social aid. We're already going to share this with the public in the Republican People's Party's election declaration in the future, and on what basis and in which framework it will provide social assistance to poor people, whose numbers have risen from 11 million to 17 million. But the arrangements for the dowry account in Article 19 of the article 19 of the article, the arrangements for the dwelling account in Article 20 of the article 20 of the article, or the arrangements for maternity aid in Article 21 of the article actually seem to be a social arrangement at first, but when we scrape a little bit of the gold off the bottom, another philosophy, another perspective, another policy emerges. Therefore, these policies are clearly required to speak and expose with courage. Now, see, the 19th article, since I'm going to take a word in particular on this matter, let's say in the first hand that the dowry and dowry assistance here seem to be a contribution to increasing domestic savings, and it actually looks like a social aid, but it actually looks like an extension, in the name of AKP's birth policy, or the multi-child policy, or the democratic policy, or whatever you want to call it. What do you want to do here now? We were told in the Commission studies that the average age of marriage progresses in Turkey. Men went up to 26.8, women went up to 23.6. What should we do? Let's develop an incentive policy to keep the age of marriage growing lower and lower. Why? In marriage, people have the opportunity and the time to have more children. Now, look, this isn't the right policy. It's not a right policy in this sense: in young countries, in young countries, economic dynamics is the most important source of that population's youth. We call it the window of demographic opportunity. Turkey is a young country, and this demographic window of opportunity will close in twenty years, twenty-five years, after thirty years. So the economic policies you're going to get from today are designing policies that bring this young population into the system, which enable us to take advantage of them, so that we can grow rapidly from developing country status to developing country status. However, we don't do this; we don't design unemployment policy or macro policies in line with so many young unemployed people. What are we doing? Let the demographic window of opportunity remain open forever, brother, lest the population grow old. What are we gonna do about it? Then let's increase the number of children. People should have as many children as possible, but you remain silent about their education, equipment, physical training, and equipment as much as possible. So this is a prepared path. This is an unsustainable policy. It only increases one population, but it doesn't ensure that the dynamics created by population growth or the dynamics created by the young population return to the economy as an efficiency, not a guarantee. So our priority, as a social democratic party, is to take advantage of the dynamics of the population, not to keep it dynamic. It's a wrong policy. And especially in the east and southeast, the issue of child brides is a sociological phenomenon. Thus, a policy of incentive to lower the age of marriage or to keep it far below is not appropriate for Turkey's sociology. Turkey is the only country in the world that encourages child policy by lowering the age of marriage, and there is no other example. If so, we'd appreciate it if the people involved would come in here and tell us. In Hakeza Article 20, a bank account for the first and only dwellings of non-residential individuals in particular has been guaranteed to contribute to the housing by the state, and has been subjected to probation. The amount of this was also set at 15,000 liras, tops. Again, as a basic framework, yes, we support the public's contribution to the housing of small-income citizens as a social-democratic party, but here's the thing: When you look at the details again, especially in the preparation of this legal arrangement, we have concerns that the recent demand for housing supply and demand for housing in Turkey has been prepared with a constant motivation to ensure that it grows to this supply. We asked about it in the Commission phase, and they told us: "There is no decline in the demand for a council; there has been a sale of about 1 million 100,000 dwellings in Turkey last year." Yes, but this year, the first few months of selling housing are only 185,000, so there's a problem with the demand for housing. The housing demand is extremely important for the construction industry. In AKP's virtual economic perception of economics, the construction industry has a huge contribution to the development of the construction sector in the perception that everything is improving. There's a serious balloon here, and there's some serious fault lines here. Thus, the AKP is trying to prevent these fault lines from blowing up like a balloon to cover the entire economy. It's one of the biggest motivations here. Also, look, the social scale of this is weak, so if you really wanted to make small-income people own houses, then you would have created a categorical income differentiation among those who would apply for it; you could have differentiated the state contribution to smaller-income groups, people who are lower in income. We've reflected our opinion on this in the Commission, but it's not supported, and I think it's an arrangement that supports the fact that people can only buy housing without any distinctions, whether they're rich or poor, it's a social-size arrangement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll share our thoughts again in matter, in necessary places. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0276par0076	Thank you. Now, Rusar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is asking for a word on his behalf. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0277par0080	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own behalf regarding the second part of Law Proposal 705. This second chapter, you know, starts with the 16th article, and the issues starting with the 16th article, I think, cost society. Here's how much money you'll get if you have kids, and if you get married, you'll get this much help, and if you want to buy housing, that's what our government will do to you, but I think that if we have a citizen here who can watch us at this hour, beyond criticism, we're obliged to inform them first. One thing is misunderstood: the amount of money to be given at this birth is one time, not every month, but every month. So the amount said to the first child is only one time from the third to 300; to the second to 400; to the third to the sixth. The question must be asked: 300 according to what, 400 according to what, 600? Because you know what minimum wage is in this country, grossly 1,200, net 949 liras. So this 300 lira, 400 lira, 600 lira, what's it based on? People in the government who have been ripped out of their hearts. We don't know who thought of that. Because it's in a bill that's currently being discussed in the Health Commission. We don't know who did what, how they did it, but they put this 300, 400, 600 lira in every law they found. So I don't know how much of this nation's money, according to what measure, you see the difference between the first child and the third child, and you pay twice as much. But the citizen says, "If he gives birth to triplets in one west, will he be given to one, two, three children for 300, 400, 600 lira, and will he be given $600 to my three children?" I said to my fellow countrymen who asked me, "What will we get if we had three? Is it 600, 300, 400, 600 pounds?" I told you, folks, this government likes pools, so that's a pool problem for them, and they'll give you the answer. For your government, praise be to Allah, has appointed for the children of the people the money which they have never stored in the bank for their children. At the end of three years, if you want to save three years in the bank, then if you want to get married or get an apartment -- if Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan doesn't have a fight with the Central Bank, he doesn't fight with different financial institutions, Turkish lira doesn't lose much -- we'll give you a maximum of $5,000. I wonder, when the Justice and Development Party's own children don't put any money into the bank, even when your own CEOs don't invest in the bank, while they keep it in different places...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0278par0083	How do you know, Spirit?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0277par0084	The world knows that, sir, whether you agree or not.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0278par0085	They work, they save money.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0277par0086	Twelve years from now, you'll be sobering up about it, and you'll always wake up 12 years later and you'll notice things. Last time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister told you what your mayor did, you probably noticed that at the end of the third term. Twelve years from now, you'll wake up about what happened. In a country where you and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who say, "Put money on the bank." You and Recep Tayyip Bey can decide when the Turkish lira is going to lose value and when the Turkish lira is going to win, you want it to be saved in the bank, except by an arrangement that you have predicted in Article 16 of the 16th article, without any responsibility. But you want this nation's children to save their money in the bank. You may be right, because your pool problems are very interesting. But you call all these people money, housing money, and your explanation is... for the low-income and middle-income citizens. When you look at it like that, you think, it's like, 75,000 liras, tops. But, there's a little bit of an addition in a sentence, where the Council of Ministers can triple it if they want." he says. Is a $225,000 house suitable for our people at low and medium income in the Republic of Turkey, in the country where the minimum wage is $949? You describe your small work as a blessing, but the social state still predicts this country, our current Constitution. You don't give money out of your own pocket to anyone. So you have to tell this nation what these 300, 400, 600, are calculated according to. You're very encouraging to give birth, but I'd like to remind you of the doll who died of loneliness at home when his parents went to look for a job when he was four months old. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0279par0091	Thank you. The second word for his person is Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0280par0095	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of myself in the second chapter of Bill 705. I salute you all. Dear friends, now, lawmaking techniques, the content of the law, etcetera, have become more of a burden than a duty to lawmakers. Not just for us, but for those of you who are in office, and for those of you who work in Congress, it's become a burden because when these bills or proposals are being discussed, the MPs are unfortunately not involved, they're not involved. At such a time, it does not serve a purpose at all to discuss such matters while televisions do not broadcast here. Friends have pointed out that there are really important arrangements in this department. Most importantly, it begins with the 16th article. You'll see it soon enough when it's in the material. In particular, in the 16th article, those who have profited from doing something that affects the rules of capital markets, publishing, or acting in the way that affects the decisions of the users, are guilty by changing the arrangement that constitutes a crime. I think -- once again, even if there is a law on the Bank, Asia, and the Bank of Business and Central Bank -- let's get this out of your memory, and let's not be a problem here. But, what really needs to be done here these days is to bring in some of the statements that the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission has discussed today and that the Prime Minister previously announced in January, about the preservation of the dynamic family structure, in order for us to use it for propaganda before elections. Everyone knows it's not an offer, but there's no way that he can stock up a certain amount of dowry, four times the amount of dowry, five times the amount of money that the poor want to be in the system for three years to get dowry money, or, as the speaker said before, to own a dwelling, or to receive the $15,000. These are the provisions that make it very difficult to use. Again, in birth money, in other countries, from birth to university end every month for children, in some countries until the age of 20, even if they're not in school, these birth moneys, children's money, are given to us at one time only as if we're doing something matificial, 400 and 600 lira, and that's a really big skill to be presented as a big skill. So in other countries, this amount at one time, for example, is $9,000 in Russia. There is no way that we can approach the practices in France, Germany, England. I've told you in the last few days, we've just given the Minister of Agriculture a gene, but even the Minister of Agriculture is paying the calf $375 to breast-feed the calf when the cow gives birth money, to give the baby $300 as a maternity allowance, to give the baby 300 lira, to be hand-to-hand, without thinking, without thinking, without research, without thinking, with the fact that you're bringing these proposals to the agenda. Dear friends, there's also a change in the Adminal Judicial Law of Emergency judgment. In that regard, our friends will make the necessary statement, but within this law proposal, the only positive arrangement in this chapter is Article 22. The fact that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is paying for the burden the state puts on private car owners is the only positive arrangement in terms of a lack of compensation. Making a law like that at this time of night could be in a banana republic other than us. I salute the honored members of the High Council.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0281par0103	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0282par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, wouldn't you consider giving them a job guarantee instead of a promise of dowry for unemployed Turkish youth? Wouldn't it be better to have an arrangement for that? What's the number of housing stores still in our country that can't be built and sold? Does the state's support for this bill for housing and the recent interest reduction of interest between Mr. President and the Central Bank have anything to do with the melting of these housing stocks, in other words, speeding up the sales of recently-intracted construction owners' homes? How do you comment on how some construction company owners have been advertising, especially in the media of the pool, on television channels lately? Does this have anything to do with the bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0283par0110	Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0284par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was to the Home Secretary, but the national flight minister is here, so maybe he can answer.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0285par0114	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0284par0115	Tomorrow is March 26th, Balkan Martyrs Memorial Day. Regarding this day in the province of Edirne, 233,000 Bulgarians, 130,000 Serbs, 30,000 Montenegrins, 80,000 Greek and 175,000 Turkish soldiers fought for the day of the war in which 10 thousand people lost their lives, the General Directorate of the Vacifs planned the opening of the synagogue, no matter what reason they served. Tomorrow in Edirne, great events may arise. I'm inviting the government to take precautions on this matter. And I'd like to ask the Foundations General Directorate to account for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0286par0117	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0287par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there's a statement from the Joint Chiefs today regarding a conflict with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Other than that, today, interesting, there are statements from both Deputy Prime Minister Akdoğan (P.A.) about the solution process, as well as from Denizhattin Demirtaş. What's going on? So on the one hand, the conflict is starting, and on the one hand, the President has a statement about this solution process. Is there something the government needs to explain that we don't know about? In fact, in this case, can you give us an explanation? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0288par0121	Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0289par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are some problems in our country that are incumbent on the General Command of the Gendarmes, which are the number of veterans, who are in the area of 24,000, are looking for solutions, such as a decent promotion, the absence of time at school, the lack of service, and the injustices of the additional indicators. Is there a work launched by the Ministry to resolve these problems? If so, where's he at? Or are you thinking of starting it? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0290par0125	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0291par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, last year on 25 October 2014, there was a brutal attack on the martyrdom of three of our soldiers in Hakkari Yüksekova. We also have a martyr from Artvin, and we buried him in Debanka. After this attack, Mr. Prime Minister shared public information that the perpetrators of this vile attack were arrested the very next day, just a day later. I asked in writing, who were these perpetrators? I saw his father two days ago before I came. The family is wondering who are the perpetrators who carried out this vile attack? Is there still a gag order on this? They killed our children by shooting them in the back of the neck. Who did this, Mr. Secretary? If you share their names with us, I'll call the family when I get out of here and let them know that justice has been done. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0292par0129	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0293par0130	Mr. Secretary, the dowry has just been mentioned, and I understand that this dowry grant will not exceed 20 per cent of the money in the bank, nor will the maximum be more than 5,000 TL. Now, in my town, 44 percent of the people, 44 percent of the employees work for minimum wage and receive $946. Again, considering that the former Prime Minister had three children's rules, and that he had three daughters, and that our minimum-paying citizen opened a bank account for each of them for a thousand dollars in three years and saved a thousand dollars, how much will these girls get -- three children -- as dowry money?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0292par0131	Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0294par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Will early marriage, social benefits that encourage many children, contribute to our children's education, job security, and production society? Is there any direction for children's education to be used in their health? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0295par0135	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0296par0136	Mr. Minister, we've been reading from the press that the Greeks in the Aegean, on the 16 Turkish island, have hung their flags; they've raised their flags against the cliffs across İzmir, they've been ordered not to interfere with the Greek military helicopter that violates Turkish airspace; we've seen it on the website of the General Staff. By order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they were given those islands within our knowledge. As a result of their statement, the removal of this air violation from the General Staff's website was officially requested. Would you care to elaborate on that, General Kurula?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0295par0137	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0297par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, these cases, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and so on, need to be staged by both the President and the Prime Minister and some members of the government. Many generals, officers, journalists, scientists went to prison for this reason, they were not promoted, they were retired. Do you plan to perform a study to return your material and spiritual rights to people who have been damaged by these cases, described as conspiracy? Do you think that the generals who have been transferred to retirement due to these cases should be reinstated to officers and evaluated for their lost time promotions? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0298par0142	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0299par0143	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that in Parliament, I've just condemned the name of the State of the Republic of Turkey to be insulted by the State of Turkey under the slang term for the Minister of Defense. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0298par0145	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0146	Mr. President, thank you. First, would it not be better for unemployed Turkish youths to be given a job guarantee instead of dowry? What country in the world has given all its citizens a job guarantee, to be shown one example, and then to be told to Turkey: "Look, you didn't do it, so do it like this country did." That's the first thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0301par0148	Leave the world, Minister, look at Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0149	Two: Turkey's unemployment rate. The population of Turkey, well, when we arrived in 2002, was 66 million, its unemployment rate was about 10 per cent. Turkey's population has increased by 10 million, unemployment has now increased by 9 to 10...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0302par0150	10.7, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0151	So it's changing by the month.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0303par0152	It doesn't change, it doesn't change.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0153	If it's summer, it'll fall, and if it's winter, it'll be... Now, look, there's the Minister of Development. But we say...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0303par0154	10.7.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0304par0155	The latest TECHNIC data is in sight.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0156	In our time, we only had crises, and only last year, we employed over a million of our people.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0303par0157	For God's sake! Oh, Mr. Secretary, 10.7.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0158	And since the crisis, we've employed six million of our people.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0305par0159	What manufacturing facility did you supply it with?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0160	But we have a commitment.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0306par0161	What?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0162	We say we're going to reduce unemployment to 5 percent in 2023.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0306par0163	Don't worry about 2023. Look at today. You're always cheating, you're always cheating.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0164	So if stability continues, that's our goal. Based on what we've done, what we're about to do comes with the goal we can achieve. Another thing is, what's the number of council stocks? I don't know anything about this, but I ask my friends, so they give you written information, and people take notes. Does the debate on the download of interest have anything to do with it? It has nothing to do with it, and this law has nothing to do with it. Again, he said another very rude thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0307par0168	No, I told the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0169	The sin belongs to the one who has the say.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0307par0170	I told the truth.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0171	That doesn't raise you to the Secretary of Defense of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0307par0172	Süleyman Shah...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0173	That makes you...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0307par0174	You left, Mr. Secretary, you left.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0175	I think it's an honor to protect Turkey's own Mehmetchi.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0308par0176	What a mess you've made Mehmetchiki!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0177	We'll join the public tomorrow.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0309par0178	You left, you ran away. You escaped under the control of the PYD and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0179	You will say: "Turkish soil has been abandoned." We will say: "We saved the life of Mehmethik, and we did not martyr a single Mehmet-chik.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0309par0181	You escaped under the control of the PYD and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0182	That's what people weigh. You'll be ashamed to give it to me. You'll be ashamed to say it, no doubt about it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0309par0183	Shame on you as a government with 700,000 troops!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0300par0184	Shame on you! You're going to be a nationalist, and you're going to come up with an expression like that.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0310par0186	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0311par0187	You're not ashamed.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0312par0188	The terrorist leader thanked you, thanked you for the wife.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0313par0189	Ya, ya!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0314par0190	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0312par0191	That's enough for you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0313par0192	That's enough for you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0314par0193	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0312par0194	It's your medal of honor.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0314par0195	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0196	One other thing...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0312par0197	It's your medal of honor, and frankly, it's a disgrace to the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0198	Mr. Oktay Vural, you can tell me... what you say in front of people is nothing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0312par0199	As your medal of honor for thanking you...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0200	Another issue is: there will be an incident at the Shinagog opening. So there's going to be a scene at the Shinagog opening. It better be at the Shinagog opening. If no one gets it out, we'll get it out.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0316par0202	No, no.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0203	It's not right, it's not right, it's wrong.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0317par0204	It's shameful, it's a sin, it's a sin.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0205	Look, this country has Christian citizens, this country has Jewish citizens, it has Muslim citizens.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0318par0206	Don't bring it to the same day.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0207	Everyone has the right to worship here.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0318par0208	No one says anything about the right to worship.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0209	It's not right if you put one's right to worship first and don't know the other. What gives you the right to do this, to ask questions. You're saying it's gonna happen.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0319par0211	Shame on you! You'd be ashamed to give those answers.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0212	That's right. Who knows how to be ashamed? Regarding Mr. Bulent Bey...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0319par0214	The congressman is doing his duty of warning. What kind of answer is that?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0320par0215	Mr. Akçay, please... Mr. Belen, please... the Minister is answering.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0216	If you're asking questions, you're listening. If you're not asking questions, shut up. Did we interfere while you were asking?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0321par0217	You guys planned the opening to cause a scene like this?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0218	Look, you're always like this.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0322par0220	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0315par0221	When you talk, we listen, and when we talk, you interfere.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0323par0222	A wife, a wife...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0324par0223	Mr. Belen, please... Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0225	We're proud, we're proud. We waved the Turkish flag in Syria.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0326par0226	You're such an ass!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0227	We waved the flag somewhere else before the flag went down, no doubt.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0326par0229	You're such an ass!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0327par0230	The flag's blown! Who the hell are you? Guard a grave, wave a flag! Shameless!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0231	Tomorrow we'll go to the public and tell them what you said and we'll tell them what we're doing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0326par0232	You got a thank-you from the terrorist leader. You're such a co-worker.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0233	Regarding the words of Bkent Bey: One day there was a harassment shot in Dağlıca, but this was not done at this time.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0326par0234	You're such an ass!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0235	As of the period, there has been a sexual assault shot, and our Armed Forces are responding to this abuse shot. Another question is about the solution process. The solution process, that's what we call it. Again, he's going to yell again, no big deal, but the solution process is the nation's project, we're followers of the nation's project, and most of the nation is following that solution process, there's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0328par0237	Mr. Secretary, which nation?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0238	Therefore, we need to understand our Deputy Prime Minister's explanation and others' explanations. The solution process will continue, and if there are abuse shots, our Armed Forces will respond with the same amount. Regarding the question of Mr. Türeli, there are a lot of demands about the problems of the veteran gendarmes and the chiefs of staff, but I'll tell you a few of them as well as the amount of time I have available. Specialist gendarmes are given monthly notices according to the indicator table set for skilled gendarmes under the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law 926. In addition, 2/3 of the additional indicators set for petty officers are applied to the police. The decision is the commander, the indicator rate is demanded to be increased. Studies on our country's conditions and modern practices are being studied within a system of integrity to ensure that the incumbent and retired Turkish Armed Forces are able to maintain their lives in better conditions. They also raised a ratio, especially in favor of small-ranking personnel, regardless of status. With both the generals and the colonels and the lieutenants and the petty officers... believe me, in our time, the highest rank or minimum wager...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0329par0240	Mr. Secretary, that's enough. Answer the others, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0241	So if it stops, it'll happen, and it can be given in writing. The law on additional indicators for experts was published in the Official Gazette on 22 February 2014. In this arrangement, experts -- there were none before, no additional indicators, we gave -- their salaries have increased by a certain amount of degrees and degrees. Another thing, army houses. It is required to take advantage of existing military homes or to build an army house in each province to meet the need. The personnel to benefit from army houses, military casinos, barracks casinos and shift dorms and private, local and winter training centres are listed in the Turkish Armed Forces Internal Service Administration and Army Houses, Military Casinos and Social Facility regulations. There's a six, seven, eight pages, Mr. Sculpture, I can't...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0330par0244	You know the problems, you've read them, but please solve them.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0245	There's work on it. Another issue is about three martyrs in Turkey's southeastern province. As far as I'm concerned, either the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the information we've been given has to be relayed to us. We believe that the perpetrators were captured, but the ones who were connected were both fugitives, but the original perpetrators were caught. You will be given an answer, of course, in writing on the Ministry of Justice, but whoever commits a crime in the Republic of Turkey -- that's the state's primary duty -- must be brought to justice. Another issue is related to the Aegean Islands. [[The microphone was turned off by the electronic device]] Mr. President, if you give me a little more time, it's important.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0331par0250	Just a second, I'll open it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0251	No island's sovereignty has been handed over to Greece by agreements, except for its 12th Article of the Lausanne Peace Treaty and the 14th Article of the Paris Peace Treaty. This island, the sovereignty of the islands and cliffs, has come from the Ottoman Empire to the Republic of Turkey through successorship. Legally, EGAYDAAK is under the rule of the Republic of Turkey. In response to this arrangement, some of the EGAYDAAK (EGAYDAAK) has had actual applications for Greece from the beginning to the present day, but from the Ottomans to the present. However, actual state practices do not change their legal, legal status. This is a decision made by international courts. Thus, in this case, EGIDAAK is legally dominated by the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0332par0252	Why don't we have actual practice, Mr. Secretary? Why don't we? What kind of defense is that?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0331par0253	Please, Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0254	The actual Greek practices on EGAYDAAK do not change the legal status. Libya-Cad, the International Court of Justice in the Netherlands-Belgian conflict, and in the dispute of Palma Island, the arbitration has ruled that the sovereignty of the land whose status has been established by agreements cannot be replaced by actual practices.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0333par0255	Mr. Secretary, they won't let us in.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0334par0256	Not as good as Tansu Chiller!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0257	Again, in 1997, the State Department's investigation into the bet... [[Noises in MHP rows]] So, the difference between us is that you gave this place to Greece. Thank God you're not in power.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0335par0260	Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0336par0261	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0325par0262	Thank God you're not in power.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0335par0264	For fuck's sake!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0336par0265	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0337par0266	Shame on you, minister of flight!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0338par0267	If you were in power, Greece would use these words of yours in international courts.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0339par0268	Oh, boy, oh, boy!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0338par0269	I wouldn't expect that from you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0340par0270	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0338par0271	I expected you to say this is Turkish soil. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It'll still be Turkish soil.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0341par0275	It's Turkish soil, and I don't know if you're a Turkish minister or a Greek minister!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0342par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0343par0277	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0342par0278	We're representatives of the Turkish nation, Mr. Secretary should apologize. If he does not apologize, please observe the criminal provisions according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0343par0279	Sit down, sit down and talk, please, sit down.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0342par0280	Yeah, apologize, apologize.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0344par0281	Look at that look, look at that look!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0345par0282	He's on the Greek side.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0346par0283	Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0344par0284	This can't be happening!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0347par0285	Mr. Secretary, do you have a statement for me? Do you have any explanation for the conversation we just had?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0348par0286	Yes, of course he will.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0349par0287	Which one, sir?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0347par0288	It's about the last speech.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0350par0289	Minister, in the summer I'm passing through, approaching the island...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0349par0290	My final statement is that you're saying that the verbs... are very clear...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0351par0292	Why don't you do the verb?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0352par0293	Tell me who you serve!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0353par0294	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0354par0295	Do you or do you not say...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0355par0296	Greece is doing actual practice.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0356par0297	You're going to apologize.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0354par0298	No way. Now, you go ahead.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0356par0299	Mr. President will take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0354par0300	No, I don't...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0356par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0354par0302	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0357par0303	I'm just trying to explain...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0356par0304	He won't take it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0357par0305	The Minister is here.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0358par0306	Let them bring in the transcripts, and we'll make it very clear, no big deal.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0357par0307	Mr. Vural, I can't force your word back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0359par0308	He won't take it, he won't take it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0357par0309	I turned on your mic.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0360par0310	Yes, there is no such thing, Mr. President, very clearly...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0357par0311	That's not my job.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0360par0312	No, you're clearly saying that this is Greek soil. What do you say? Well, if it's not Greek soil...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0361par0313	He's lying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0362par0314	We're saying there's an invasion of Greece.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0363par0315	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0364par0316	Well, okay, so we say, "Filial practice doesn't change the situation of sovereignty..."
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0362par0317	Greece invaded, and you let it happen.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0364par0318	That's what the international agreements say, that's what the judges say. What more do you want? What more do you want?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0362par0320	Why didn't you do the actual procedure? Why did you let him?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0365par0321	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0366par0322	Mr. President, look, the Minister will take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0323	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0366par0324	He'll take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0325	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0368par0326	No, what will he take back, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0327	Fictional applications...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0328	Sir, you have accepted that it is Greek land.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0329	Yeah, that's what you say, that's what you say.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0330	The Minister will take that back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0331	No, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0332	He'll take that back. Mr. President, by bringing in the transcripts...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0333	Well, it's a good thing you're not in power, because your word has nothing to do with the state, but if we say it, it connects the state. What do we say?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0335	The sovereignty of all islands that are not handed over by treaties belongs to the Ottoman State.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0336	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0370par0337	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0367par0338	It belongs to the Republic of Turkey through the ashy successorship.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0339	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0370par0340	Mr. Vural, you'll get out and you'll want a word.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0341	Sir, no, no. Look, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we have representatives of this nation here. The representatives of the nation are occupied by our islands. If a minister accepts the statement and the actual situation, if a minister agrees...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0370par0343	It's out of the question, sir. He has declared the right to rule the treaty, sir.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0344	You accept this statement as a land. Let him take back his testimony and take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0371par0345	But the men are on the island, occupying it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0346	Let him take it back.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0372par0347	Mr. President, look, I'm crossing the edges of those islands, and the Greek offensive boats are blocking my boat, and they won't let me near the island.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0373par0348	Can you, as Secretary of State of Defense, get on those islands now?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0369par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit05spe0374par0350	Yeah, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0374par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0375par0004	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0376par0005	Where's the Minister? Is the Minister missing?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0377par0006	He fled because his name was the foreign minister.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0378par0007	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0379par0010	Mr. President, the Minister of National Defence has just expressed that the state of the Republic of Turkey has a will that cannot protect its international rights and territory, which has failed to prevent the actual invasion of Greece, despite the fact that there are 16 islands in Turkey, and unfortunately has led to a situation that will make it legal. This is not an acceptable subject. The island is ours as it is ours, and the island is ours, and the island of Edirne is ours, and the island of Tripoli is ours. If a national secretary of defense is passing an actual situation here, what are we going to do, Mr. President, who's going to defend Turkey, who's going to defend us? The second issue is the congratulations the Minister received from Imralı. He can use it as a medal of honor. The third issue, Mr. President, is the opening of a synagogue in Edirne. In the 11th month, the Governor of Edirne states that this synagogue will be opened as a museum. But, Mr. President, tomorrow is March 26th. Dear MPs, the Memorial Day of Martyrs in the 26th of March Balkan Wars. There are 300,000 martyrs in the Balkan Wars, and 20,000 soldiers were left hungry and thirsty in Sarajevo. On the day of the memorial of the martyrs, the heart desired that the witnesses should be on the day of the memorial. If you're going to open on March 27th, if you're going to open the synagogue in Edirne, if you need a synagogue in Edirne to attend the meetings of Jewish-born, Jewish-religious citizens, but on March 26th, to do something like this on the day of the memorial of the martyrs, as a synagogue, I don't know if there's any in Edirne, but what's there is there, the Memorial Day of the Balkan Martyrs; look, 20,000 soldiers are left without food and martyrs in the palace. I mean, on a day like this, with the Governor of Edirne's testimony, they're saying there's a sensitivity about this -- about this -- about this -- about this -- about this. The National Defence Minister would like to be there tomorrow, on Memorial Day for the 26th March Balkan Wars Martyrs, on the day of the Memorial of those martyrs. That's what they want, Edirne. That's what our congressman is saying. In that sense, the citizens of the Republic of Turkey -- regardless of religion -- need a place of worship -- we have nothing to pay for that, but on the day of the memorial of the martyrs, there is a reaction to the sensitivity of the Edirne and our nation and those who migrated from the Balkans to the same day as a synagogue opening, that is the question. Frankly, the reaction is to you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0380par0013	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0381par0014	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance, and I'd like to make a brief statement from my position.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0380par0015	Wait a second. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn. I have made a promise, according to the 60th Amendment.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0382par0018	Mr. President, thank you. Today's incident is not an ordinary incident. If many of our friends listen quietly, since the Parliament is running a war of the will of this House, we can always say so, but today the Minister of National Defense has made it very offensive with his attitude and his words. When did this invasion or the actual situation begin, what did they do and what do they intend to do? Mr. Secretary, before you answer this as a member of the government, they must give this great House the answers to these questions to this council, which is in earnest. The Secretary of State or member of the government must not leave without these answers. That's not gonna happen. They accept an actual situation, and what they're doing in front of it, what they're trying to do... when did it start? If it weren't for such a coincidence, the government would never have made such a statement. Has opposition leaders been briefed, political parties informed? It's a very painful situation. So unresponsible...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0380par0021	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0383par0024	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, respect for martyrs... the responsibility the martyrs expect from us is unity, unity, to make this country strong. To make this country strong, unity passes through unity. So I've always asked you: Foreign policy is not a matter of government, foreign policy should be the common cause of this nation. We said that during Operation Shah Fırat, the land there is Turkish soil. We said, "You left." It says, "We did not leave." Therefore, the government can have hundreds of problems, hundreds of actions, and a discussion about these issues will be raised on other matters. Reminiscing the souls of the martyrs, not hurting the souls of the martyrs for this country, but unity goes through unity. So, if we're together, if we're together, if we're together in these national issues, there's no problem. On the other hand, Mr. President, when did this actual application of these islands begin? The actual application of the islands began from the beginning of the republic. (MHP rows) In our time...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0384par0027	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0383par0028	Let me make this very clear, I beg you, look, international national issues... if we say the national issues one by one, it'll go to a different point, but please, there are those of you who have the expertise in this matter, that you have your friends... but it goes on to date from the day the Republic was founded. But what we say is, verb practice, look, we're also saying the decisions from international courts, our actual practices...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0385par0029	Why can't you do actual practice, but Greece is doing actual practice?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0383par0030	(We say that the law does not rule out the right to rule out the right to rule out the law.) So we're saying the law, and you're saying that from the beginning of the Republic, you're going to step in and do your intervention.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0385par0031	You answer to your government, your government. We ask you about the account of your time.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0383par0032	There was no actual practice in our time, and we say that the actual practices before us did not eliminate any of Turkey's rights to sovereignty born of the Ottoman Empire. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0385par0034	The new Greek government was established, and the first visit by the National Defence Minister was to those Turkish islands, Donkey, Bulamac Islands. As Minister of National Defense, you should visit that island, there's a Greek soldier there. Why did you allow this actual application to happen? Why did you let this happen? You were in power, then.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0386par0035	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions of the same nature on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of the 705th amendment in Article 107 of Capital Market Law No. 6/12/2012, which envisions a change in the second joke of Article 107. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Other authors of the same motion: Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Erkan Akçay Other authors of the same motion: The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0387par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0386par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0388par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0386par0063	Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0389par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the 16th article of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to some Law and Law Orders of 705 rows. I salute the General Assembly. As we look at the 19th article of the proposal, it is said that Turkish citizens of Turkey will be paid a state contribution if they apply to the bank, which follows their marriage, if they open a dowry account for Turkish lira in the domestic branches of Turkish or accession banks, and remain in the system for at least three years. Again, according to Article 19, the state contribution will not exceed 20 per cent of the total amount and 5,000 Turkish liras, as the dowry account is piling up. Dear lawmakers, thus the government wants to create a perception that citizens who are not 27 years old, are willing to contribute to the cost of marriage, which aims to increase domestic savings. In detail, this arrangement points to some troubled areas. As a matter of fact, it is understood that this offer is to increase the number of births by encouraging citizens to get married at an earlier age rather than to contribute to improving domestic savings. Dear lawmakers, we must first declare that in a country allegedly ruled by democracy, the state cannot decide the age of its citizens' marriage. And once again, a state ruled by democracy cannot reward its citizens financially for their marriage age or punish them by depriving them of this economic reward. On the other hand, a social state does not have the authority to reward and punish its citizens by categorizing them in the form of married and single. Dear MPs, the state mechanism is not the marriage agency. All citizens are free to marry and not marry. Moreover, the Civil Law clearly states from which age citizens will be able to get married. It is unacceptable for the government to encourage individuals who want to get married by allegedly setting an upper age and rewarding it. Dear lawmakers, instead of recommending the age they will marry our young ones, the government should consider developing human standards throughout the country rather than trying to look cute by telling our young people about the numbers that the public will provide from the budget, which already has money. I'd like to remind the government that the minimum salary in Turkey is 950 euros, so to speak, a citizen can eat three meals of bagels a day and drink tea. A family of four in Turkey has a hunger limit of 1,307 TL. Again, the poverty limit of a family of four in Turkey is 4.259 TL. That's the painting, precious MPs. Instead of releasing populist selection packages, the government must look at ways to raise minimum wage to human living standards. Instead of wasting time on illusionist laws that mislead the public, the government should work overtime to create reasonable solutions to the situation of our citizens living below the age of hunger. Dear lawmakers, the government has handed over qualified education to the private sector due to its poor policies on education. What educational system does the government offer to our citizens, who are encouraged to marry with the help of 5,000 lira dowry? How can a citizen who lives on minimum wage to marry and have children, a citizen who lives below the age of hunger, pay his rent, send his children to school? The government must account for them. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government operates a community engineering operation in its own way through the budget of taxes of all citizens. According to the AKP government, an acceptable citizen is a citizen who gets married at an early age, who has many children, who is grateful for the social and economic alms that the government has brought up at the time of the election, at the risk of looking cute, incompatible with human honour, such as unemployment, minimum wage, living under the hunger limit. In advanced democracies, the state strives to humanize its citizens' living standards, while citizens are free, political subjects. As a result, this arrangement, which serves the purpose of misleading the public and creating a grateful citizen type of state, will not solve the problems of our citizens, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0390par0075	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Günal is the MP of Antalya who wants to speak on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0391par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is one of the most important violations of this law. I told you when we were talking about the general, I officially offered to take out a bank, a public company, any company, with this clause. So, on the one hand, we're going to sink the bank in what you've spent all your energy on fighting the parallele. When I say, those who screw up all public companies according to the clause of this law will not be punished, and those who spread it will not be punished. Of course, you want to save Mr. President in the first place because he said, this bank is a wreck, this bank is finished. If he's here, let's ask the SEC, the BDDK authorities: is he or is he not a crime according to his current state of mind? So that's what the 107th article that we've changed brings about a bank's reputation, the reputation of a public company. Now, when we looked at the original proposal, dear friends, there was a punishment, and he said, "Right and indirectly, it's profiting by any means necessary." We also removed the false one, and now we indirectly remove the punishment of the guilty one. You, on the one hand... Guys, no more roll call, take your time. On the one hand, you just don't accept it, so... Good talk, Mr. President, so I can't hear myself talking. Look, not like this. So no more roll call...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0392par0084	Mr. Günal, I wish every group would follow your lead.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0391par0085	But I can't hear myself talking. Please, I mean... would that happen? Laughter...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0392par0086	You're demanding the same things on the stand, but none of the members of the council and the members don't fit in. Please, Mr. Lawmakers, this is the speaker speaking.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0391par0088	Now, don't pick on me. There's noise. I mean, you can't hear it.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0392par0089	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0391par0090	You, of course, are not listening to anyone, Mr. President. So this is one of the most important illicit substances of the law, so don't mix it with the helals. I told you before. I'm saying that by spreading a rumor about any sports club, you can put stocks in this club's public corporations on the ground, no one gets punished. Go before him as a judge, I have no direct interest in what he will say. There was a dolay, Mr. Informant brought it, made an offer, and he removed the dolayed, just in case. Now, in direct interest... you know, your reasonable doubt, the concrete evidence story, now you're back here with concrete evidence. So, well, you came in, you got a news story in a newspaper about a public company that's your competition, and you said something came out of that product, and that company went down. But there's no such news. What's in the Press Law when he gets it identified? There's only a statement -- the lawsuit for compensation on this... but what's in SPK 107? Prison, administrative fine. When you put that away, I'm telling you, you're all fans of a sports club. Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş, and Beşiktaş, have an anonymous company, don't they? Well, now, when someone gossips about him, those stocks don't go through the roof, they make bases, they make positives, they manipulate. That's what we call the market. He who publishes it will go unpunished. Why? I have no direct interest. I'm a sports newspaper, I've heard, I've done a story on the club. Look, even the footballer's transfer rumors that if the meeting is officially in session, the clubs have to inform the KAP. They get detention when they don't. Why? That's what it does to the stocks of that club, that's what it's for. That's why they want information on the Public Enlightenment platform. Because if he's moving better artillery than he is, then he's looking for stocks to go up. Now, you, the Bank, when such manipulations are done to reduce the punishment for what has been done to Asia, don't let the people be punished, let the press be punished. You bring such a thing. I'm having a hard time understanding, so what's tomorrow gonna say, who's gonna say? It's like the President said... although he said the same thing the next day. Now that the terror problem is over, it's all over, Mr. President, there's another trend. Now that Mr. Secretary of Defense is saying something different, we're having a hard time understanding it. But this stuff is a forbidden substance, so don't mix it with these legals, and please let's shoot it. Otherwise, if there are companies that you have, have partners, or have stocks in tomorrow, they could be manipulated into losing the company's reputation and being damaged. Therefore, I recommend that this clause of the law be removed from the proposal text. I'm waiting for your support, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0393par0095	Thank you. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0394par0099	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're discussing a amendment to Article 107 of the Capital Market Law. The capital market is a market for trust. If you break trust in the capital market, if you destroy it, this market doesn't work, it doesn't contribute to the development of the country, and no one wants to go buy stocks. This is an arrangement aimed directly at destroying trust in the capital market. Now, article 107 of the Capital Market Law regulates market fraud. It describes the two conditions as market fraud. One is that in this market, for example, in the Istanbul Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange is fined with prison sentences, for example, to influence the prices, values, supply and demand transactions of the stocks that are being processed under the new name of the Stock Exchange. The players who operate in that stock exchange will face prison sentences if they make a misleading attempt to give investors a different, contrary impression, such as lowering or raising stock prices or playing with quantity of supply and demand. There's a second situation. According to the law on capital markets -- the Stock Exchange -- let's say, let's take it for example -- in order to influence the prices, values or decisions of investors -- lies, false news, and in violations of the truth -- those who influence the decisions of investors or make a false report against the truth will be punished again with prison sentences. Now, this clause adds one condition here, which adds one condition to the second condition. So a person can lie about a public company, a bank, and it doesn't matter. For example, a bank is sunk. One can say, "It doesn't matter. " This bank has sunk. The person who mentions it, the person, whatever it is, has profited from it, and will only be punished with a prison sentence. This is just being added. There is no requirement for benefit in this ruling of the Capital Market Law. It's the right thing to do. When you seek the provision of benefit, you render it ineffective. Then everyone can get false news about a bank, a public company. See, we had an example of this about Bank Asia. The Bank, Asia, unfortunately, was subjected to a multi-system attack, a multi-system attack. The Prime Minister of Time said this bank was sunk. The government's Prime Minister, who is tasked with securing, effective, transparent operations of a capital market, cannot say such a thing. This bank was attacked against the law. Some shares of this bank have been handed over to TMSF. The 18th article of the Banking Law (5) states that it is imperative that the shareholders with qualified shares in the banks carry the required conditions for the founders. It is the correct arrangement because the bank is a trust institution. If someone has acquired privileged shares, then it is imperative that the founders carry the requirements. If the founders have lost the conditions they're wanted for, they can't use the rights of that stock outside of default. Now, BDK wants information from its partners who have this qualified share of Asia; it gives you a deadline; it gives you a short time, like fifteen days, a month; I haven't been given any information; I've transferred your shares to TMSF. &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Give it to TMSF.&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&lt;i&gt;You want an extension;i&gt;You want an extension, you want a balance sheet of the year, you want a balance sheet, you want a record.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;/i&gt;/i&gt;/i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt; You're telling me to give me time. Besides, I said, "Give me information." I said, "You didn't, I confiscated your stock." He can't say. You have inspectors, experts. Look, this stuff is being brought in to cover up all these illegalities. It's an extremely wrong substance. Don't think about it in terms of a bank, all capital market institutions, all public companies are now in danger. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0395par0108	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0394par0110	Sir, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0395par0111	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's a discrepancy between the clerks, I'll give you a minute, and we'll vote on the electronic device. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decision-making and the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal 705 rows under discussion be changed to 20 per cent of the declaration in Article 17 of Article 130 of Law No. 6362, as well as 10 per cent of the azam (asgarial per cent) in Article 4 of Law. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Adil Zozani Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 17th Amendment of the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Mehmet Erdoğan Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Erkan Akçay The fourth joke of Article 130 of the Law No. 17 - 6362 has been changed as follows. Starting with the annual incomes of the Council of Turkey's Statistical Institutions and other controlled markets and other organised markets, from all the revenues of central storage institutions, and from the interest revenues of the MKKK, to the Council, the amount of revenue recorded on the annual income of the last three years will be budgeted by the Council each year by the Turkish Statistical Institution to increase the rate of revenues for Turkey's overall consumer price index and Homemaker Price Index and the rate of change compared to December of the year before December. The percentage of institutions under the joke, which will be set by the Council for each calendar year, with the exception of interest revenues, to start the year following its establishment, is recorded by the Council as income for each calendar year, with a maximum of 10 per cent of its income. However, according to this joke, the time and amount of payments to be made are reported by the Council to relevant institutions at least 30 days earlier, considering the cash situation of the Council in the calendar year following the year the income was acquired. Unrequested amounts within a calendar year are added to the amount that will be paid in the following years and can be demanded by the Council in the same manner." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Some Laws and Law Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Committee of the People and the Minister of the People's Party of the Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of the Law shall be drafted by the Manisa MP Free Special; the Ministry of Law and the Minister of Law shall be appointed by the Constitution and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education shall be appointed by the Parliament of the Constitution and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the State of the Law for the Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Müslim Sarı Ali Serindağ chooses Izzet Çetin Vahaap The fourth joke of Article 130 of Article 17-6362 of the Law has been changed as follows. "To start with the income of 2015, the Council of Turkey's Statistical Institutions and other controlled markets and other organised markets will be budgeted each year for increasing revenues recorded to the Council over their incomes, except for the central trade institutions, the central storage institutions and the interest revenues of the MKK, and the arising rates of change compared to December of the year before December 2014. The percentage of institutions under the joke, which will be set by the Council for each calendar year, with the exception of interest revenues, to start the year following its establishment, is recorded by the Council as income for each calendar year, with a maximum of 10 per cent of its income. However, according to this joke, the time and amount of payments to be made are reported by the Council to relevant institutions at least thirty days before the Council's cash situation in the calendar year following the year the income was acquired. Unrequested amounts within a calendar year are added to the amount that will be paid in the following years and can be demanded by the Council in the same manner." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0396par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0395par0146	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0397par0150	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise on the 17th article of Proposition 705, but this is a simple clause, there is no need to discuss it. It describes the budget of the board's contributions from its own institutions, revenues. In fact, during my speech, I told you that this proposal was all wrong, that the wrong stuff had been brought in. One of the items we took out last night was insurance, and it was quickly arranged, came without discussion, which could bring a great deal of trouble for Turkish insurance. He's been expelled from God. I'm afraid we're making mistakes like this. My dear friends, not on this subject, but on something we're discussing today, I'll make it known. I'd like to consider the conflict with today's PKK and its developments in the solution process, what the Deputy Prime Minister's statements mean, and, again, a question asked by friends of the National Movement Party, Mr. Minister's answers. No one doubts the Minister's patriotism. Only he gave a very scandalous answer. It says about the islands: "Yes, this is our land according to Lausanne, but there is an actual situation." Look, this didn't happen. And here we are, as lawmakers of the ruling party in the first place, immediately, about this, if there's an actual situation, we're prepared as opposition, we need to do what we need to do, we need to do what we need to do. If there's a real situation here, where we have a right to sovereignty, to the ground, then there's a scandal. How can we not do what's necessary? Is that even possible? We all need to talk about this first. Mr. Bostanci, this is a very important matter that needs to be brought up immediately. Look, today, there's an actual invasion in Syria. The Syrian government can't do anything to that actual occupation, ISIS or other elements. Why? He can't afford it. And we can't afford it either? The land in our kingdom doesn't matter if it's miles and miles. Yes, we have the right to sovereignty, according to international law, but there is a de facto situation there, Mr. Secretary. It's too bad, too scandalous. So our military power, the power of the Turkish Armed Forces, is not enough for this place? Don't we have enough power here? If this is a national case -- he said, foreign affairs require the government's policy, not the government's -- yes, then let's do whatever it takes with opposition and power. That can't happen. There can't be such a scandal. This is a huge mistake. This needs to be fixed here. If it's a final situation, Mr. Secretary, a minister of the Republic accepts it, there's a final situation, our land is occupied. The land that has the right to rule is occupied. If it says so, we must do what is necessary. I'm so sorry. This is a situation that should upset all of us, my friends. Look, I don't doubt the Minister's patriotism, but it's a terrible, very scandalous situation. This can't be happening. Can't we have enough military power to respond to that, to eliminate this actual situation? We've fought for the Cardacid Rocks there in the past, we've risked the war. How can we do such a thing? What's the motive? I mean, either we can't afford it or some other kind of power won't allow it. Either way, it means there's been a lot of scandal, a lot of trouble. Mr. Secretary should explain this here or another representative of the government should explain it. It's really more important than anything. The other thing is, I asked for a statement from the Joint Chiefs today. He talks about a conflict with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Anyway, there's something about him, yes, it happens all the time. He gave me an answer like that, but he can't, so the details need to be told. Is there a problem with the solution process? The Deputy Prime Minister has made a very important statement: You know that we are at an important stage in the solution process. Mr. Demirtaş and Kandil have made statements last week that do not apply to the spirit of the process. It didn't fall in line with the precision of the coming stage, almost poisoned the process, corrupted the climate. Our president is also the architect of this process. There's a situation here that needs to be explained. All of this is something that needs to be evaluated right away tonight. On this occasion, I thank everyone, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0398par0161	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 17th Amendment of the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The fourth joke of Article 130 of the Law No. 17 - 6362 has been changed as follows. Starting with the annual incomes of the Council of Turkey's Statistical Institutions and other controlled markets and other organised markets, from all the revenues of central storage institutions, and from the interest revenues of the MKKK, to the Council, the amount of revenue recorded on the annual income of the last three years will be budgeted by the Council each year by the Turkish Statistical Institution to increase the rate of revenues for Turkey's overall consumer price index and Homemaker Price Index and the rate of change compared to December of the year before December. The percentage of institutions under the joke, which will be set by the Council for each calendar year, with the exception of interest revenues, to start the year following its establishment, is recorded by the Council as income for each calendar year, with a maximum of 10 per cent of its income. However, according to this joke, the time and amount of payments to be made are reported by the Council to relevant institutions at least 30 days earlier, considering the cash situation of the Council in the calendar year following the year the income was acquired. Unrequested amounts within a calendar year are added to the amount that will be paid in the following years and can be demanded by the Council in the same manner." Ali Longırmak (Admin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0399par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0398par0171	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Longırmak wants to speak on the motion, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0400par0175	Mr. President, thank you very much. Every law in the High Council is certainly very important, but what just happened here is a matter of state's life. Foreign policy is the country's most important policy. Dear friends, foreign policy has some ground rules, basic goals. If you do not carry out the foreign policy for these purposes and the ground rules, the country will be at stake. So, right here, briefly, under some headlines, I'd like to share some ground rules and goals with you, and I'd like to ask the government to put their minds at ease. The government's magic is broken. Conjunctural developments in internal dynamics and external dynamics have revealed that the government is now conjunctural and that events that it does not operate in its own initiative have become unable to sail the ship. What should Turkey do in this broken conjunctive? Dear friends, one of the basic rules of foreign policy, each country first protects its own interests, makes policy for its own interests. Is Turkey able to protect its own interests today? We can analyze it from the Minister's answers here. Two: no interference in the domestic affairs of other countries. Is Turkey involved in other countries' domestic affairs? In the middle, it just keeps getting mixed up and mixed up. This government peaked in its time. Three: politics, foreign political achievements do not apply to domestic policy. Well, does the government do that? He's always done it, always doing it. So, in foreign policy, are you looking for maximum alliances inside? It's called. That's what the government doesn't do. Because he's never looking for a maximum alliance in domestic politics to claim the success of foreign policy. Dear friends, when we analyze for the purposes of foreign policy under certain topics, there are vital goals, there are beca problems, and goals are planned in short, medium, long term. Short-term goals are, most importantly, a matter of survival. The purpose of security is the highest income in both domestic security and foreign security threats, the most important goal in politics, foreign policy, state security, security. But are the social, historical, philosophical, economic developmental events of the state's security purposes in Turkey appropriate? We can't claim that. The second goal is prosperity. To make his own nation more prosperous, the country develops and governs foreign policy for this purpose. One of the third and most important is the purpose of dignity. If a country's reputation is being destroyed, it can't maintain its survival by protecting its interests, it can't protect its interests. So, hold on to the Süleyman Shah Respect Station today, and the Minister's answer is, there's an actual situation in the islands. He says, "When did this actual situation start, what did it take, what did it take, what did it do?" There's no answer, and he's trying to present it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in an understanding that the actual situation is quite common. Turkey is losing its dignity, losing its dignity day by day in economic circles and political circles and international platforms. Mr. President's exits, the government's erratic behavior, are the primary cause of this, dear friends. There is confusion in authority in the power that governs Turkey today. The fourth important goal is autonomy. The purpose of autonomy is indispensable. Because you can enter alliances, fulfilling the responsibilities of alliances doesn't mean violating autonomy, it doesn't mean losing your dignity, but if you are alone in the international arena day by day, your autonomy is lost, your policy is lost, your dignity is lost. Today, the operation of Süleyman Shah Respect Station has destroyed Turkey's reputation. In domestic politics, if he doesn't have that kind of delusion, if his friends are right, our dignity is lost there, too. The inside PKK, the YPG outside, says a number of issues are being considered in common with its statements. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These are the most overwhelming explanations. All these statements need to be properly assessed by the government. Turkey is on its way from autonomy to a compromise that has lost its dignity in a mess of authority until it reaches a state whose spell is broken from day to day, which rules the highest state. Thank you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0401par0191	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal 705 rows under discussion be changed to 20 per cent of the declaration in Article 17 of Article 130 of Law No. 6362, as well as 10 per cent of the azam (asgarial per cent) in Article 4 of Law. Nursel Aydoğan (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0402par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0401par0199	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Speaking on the motion, Nursel Aydoğan is Diyarbakır MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0403par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. As part of the law, I would like to express my views on dowry accounts, maternity aid, child welfare and housing assistance. In fact, I personally wondered how this was going to work when there was news of dowry in the press, but then when we learned about the scope of the law, we realized that it had nothing to do with practical life and life. So, think about it, you're a teenager, you're going to put money into the bank for three years first to get married, then you're going to try to get married before you're 27 and you're going to find a wife. If you have found a mate, by the age of 27, you will also receive 20 percent of the money you have invested and 5 thousand liras in charity. Honestly, it's kind of hard, and it's not that easy to find a wife. If they can't find a wife, how will they get this money? I mean, that's another matter. Let's say a young man or a woman or a woman who wants to make sure they get 5,000 liras, they're going to get married in a hurry, and then he's going to try to break up with his wife because he's willing to pay 10 million, 20 million, and then he can't make a living. So, in practical life, there's not a lot of compensation. Besides, of course, unemployment is too high in Turkey. For example, there's about 18 to 20 percent unemployment in our region, let's say in Diyarbakır, in Siirt, in Batman, in Şırnak, and in Turkey, there's about 11 to 12 percent unemployment. In a country where there's so much unemployment, it's probably going to be hard to find young people who would invest in a bank for three years. And, of course, there's something important about female friends. Women's employment is already too low in our country. How are women friends going to get that money? How are they gonna put it in the bank? The families must support them in this matter. Will they get that support? That's a different situation. Of course, we're going to say college graduates might benefit from it, but considering the overwhelming majority of college graduates are unemployed, and there are about 200,000 or 300,000 teachers at the door, we'll find out that the law doesn't have any practical compensation. Raising child support. Of course, if child welfare is indeed being increased to better care for children, it is, of course, a joy. But there's one thing in this law that's good that child welfare is given directly to the mother, and that's written under the law, which is good, but what we're thinking: is that the reason underlying both dowry benefit and increased child support is because of statistics, the growing population in Turkey, but with such measures? It cannot be increased because in Turkey, capitalism now prevails, capitalism's liberalist policies. Liberalism, you know, is about individualism. Now that we've come to the world once, we don't want to have children, raise and raise children, they say. So as long as these policies -- the neoliberal policies -- are in control of our country, as long as they have influence over young people, I want to say that this kind of help will have no effect. Of course, it's the same with housing assistance. Three years, a poor person will remain in the system, and after three years, when he wants to buy a house, there will be like $15,000 or 20 percent of the money he has invested. Given that there is a population in our country that lives on a minimum wage of 5-10 million, we will see that housing allowance is not valid in practical life as well. So I'm saying that these three laws are laws based on raising votes because of the upcoming elections and some populist policies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0404par0213	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0405par0215	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit06spe0404par0216	All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll call. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0404par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan and his friends on the 17th article of Law Proposition 705 was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 18th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 705, is 18. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Erkan Akçay The first joke of Article 23 of the Law on Payment and Covenant Systems No. 6493, dated 18 - 20/6/2013, has been changed as follows. The system operator, the payment company and the electronic money company store documents and records of the issues involved in this Law within the country for at least ten years to be safe and available at any time. The information systems and backups used by the system operator to operate are also kept inside the home. The procedure and basis for the information systems used by the payment agency and the electronic money company to operate are determined by Turkey's Republican Central Bank and the Council." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Law Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Law; the Minister of Law and the Minister of Law, Manisa MP Free Special; the Order of Public Institutions and Institutions to Change the Law in Some Laws and Service Pages; the Minister of the People's Party; and the Minister of the Minister of Public Education, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education, and the Minister of Education for Education, and the Minister of the Law, and the Minister of Education of the Law and the Ministry of Law shall be prepared to be appointed by the Ministry of Law, and the Ministry of Education and the Constitution. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Müslim Sarı Ali Serindağ chooses Izzet Çetin Vahaap The first joke of Article 23 of the Law on Payment and Covenant Systems No. 6493, dated 18 - 20/6/2013, has been changed as follows. The system operator, the payment company, and the electronic money company store documents and records of the issues involved in the Law in the country for at least ten years to be safe and available at any time. The information systems and backups used by the system operator to operate are also kept inside the home. The method and basis for the information systems used by the payment agency and the electronic money company is determined by the Council. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of Article 18 of the first amendment to Article 23 of the Law on Payment and Customs Covenant Systems, Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations, dated 20/6/2013. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0406par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0404par0038	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Subjects under the Central Bank's authority and expertise are also included in the BDDK field. Giving to the BDDK a mandate similar to MB's powers, which specializes in this matter, could cause major problems. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Law Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Law; the Minister of Law and the Minister of Law, Manisa MP Free Special; the Order of Public Institutions and Institutions to Change the Law in Some Laws and Service Pages; the Minister of the People's Party; and the Minister of the Minister of Public Education, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education, and the Minister of Education for Education, and the Minister of the Law, and the Minister of Education of the Law and the Ministry of Law shall be prepared to be appointed by the Ministry of Law, and the Ministry of Education and the Constitution. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The first joke of Article 23 of the Law on Payment and Covenant Systems No. 6493, dated 18 - 20/6/2013, has been changed as follows. The system operator, the payment company and the electronic money company store documents and records of the issues involved in this Law within the country for at least ten years to be safe and available at any time. The information systems and backups used by the system operator to operate are also kept inside the home. The method and basis for the information systems used by the payment agency and the electronic money company to operate are determined by the Council." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0407par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0404par0052	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Şeker, MP of Gaziantep, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0408par0057	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, another bag of law... This Congress, unfortunately, has become a law factory. Since the day we became congressmen, we've made hundreds of laws, we've changed them, we've rebuilt them. We set up laws to send messages to a number of pre-election places, and we do, but unfortunately, if you can't educate society, if you can't raise law enforcement, the laws you make in society don't have much effect. When I first became a congressman, I spoke on this bench again, and then I made some offers. I specifically said, "Look, drugs are being sold on TV." Someone's coming out. This medicine is good for this disease. Another person comes out, explains that some foods are good for some diseases. You can't do anything about it. It's in the law, it's everything in the law, but if you can't control it and you can't enforce it, I'm afraid you won't be able to deal with it. The last time Mr. Secretary made a statement, he said: "We have banned these honey sales." What was in this honey that the citizens have been eating for four years, dear friends? It had starch-based glucose in it. Starches-based glucose is a cheap sugar from starch, but unfortunately it causes obesity and cancer, a food that paves the way for chronic diseases. So, how did we get here? Because we didn't check it out. If you can't control the law you want, if you can't control it effectively, unfortunately, you don't have a very successful chance of doing anything. We're talking about it here, we're talking about it, but we're bringing things up at election times to get the vote from the people across the street, and we're not really falling behind the laws that we bring up. We call it dowry money, we interfere with the time of the citizen's marriage, and if you invest this much money, if you put 20 percent in the bank, if you don't get married by this age, we put in something called... What happened to the time of marriage and death? They, however, have a time, an hour, and they will. He's gonna wait there for the 27 years you put in the law? Will he wait for 20% of the money in the bank to be completed? These are things that can't be applied. We're just talking, we're just writing, drawing, but we're making it election time. Here's a constitutional amendment: let 18-year-olds do politics. Why didn't you bring it to this day? If this law comes out today, on April 7th, everyone will give you a list of candidates for the MP, and when will you do it? In what era are these guys going to do politics? Dear friends, please take care of the laws we've passed. For four years in this House, believe me, we've made a law like a factory. We don't know the number of laws we've made. We brought some back, we fixed them, we're trying to get some of them back together. But as a result, no matter what we do, we have to do practical things, we have to clear the way for society. But we're here with the law that we make, the age of people getting married, when they're getting married, how they're getting married, how much of this is being deposited in the bank, how they're going to be renegotiated, how they're going to have a home, where they're going to get it, so you don't have the right to determine them, and you don't have the chance to do that. If we're going to do something, what we're going to do is we're going to increase the prosperity of this society, increase the level of education, make sure that quality people grow. We have to fight for it, and we have to be able to do it. These laws, unfortunately, don't have a lot of practice. Four years ago, I had a motion to ask about these drugs on TVs that we brought up that day, about the ban on advertising about these foods, and I have a law proposal, and I've made a research motion about that, but so far nothing has been done. Unfortunately, one of our ministers came out, saying that most of these food products are fake and are harmful to human health. So, who's in charge? Is it a citizen with a low price on it, an economic problem, or a minister and a manager who condones it? I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0409par0065	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 705, is 18. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 23 of the Law on Payment and Covenant Systems No. 6493, dated 18- 20/6/2013, has been changed as follows. The system operator, the payment company and the electronic money company store documents and records of the issues involved in this Law within the country for at least ten years to be safe and available at any time. The information systems and backups used by the system operator to operate are also kept inside the home. The procedure and basis for the information systems used by the payment agency and the electronic money company to operate are determined by Turkey's Republican Central Bank and the Council." Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0410par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0409par0075	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0411par0080	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 18 of the law proposal we are discussing. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this clause we're discussing envisions a change in Article 23 of Law No. 6493's (1) joke. However, when predicting this change, the interesting thing here is that the regulation of the (1)th joke gives the board the authority to determine the procedures and foundations for the information systems used by the company and the electronic currency to operate its activities -- the Banking Editing and Control Board, he says. Now, what's interesting here is that in the regulation that's been passed these days, in accordance with the old law, the law that's been passed, they've already passed that mandate. Now, what's interesting is that, as we know it, there's laws first, then there's regulations. That's the way it goes. But I guess now they're changing the rules by changing the procedure and the basics, trying to fit the law into that, folks. And what's interesting here is that technically, they didn't tell both government and relevant authorities that something like this should be done. Now, if we put that part of the job aside, basically, they've been burdened with a mistake here: when we study the law number 6493, it's here that it's the duty of the Central Bank to maintain or to make the necessary arrangements in the circulation of money or in the processing of payment systems. So let's put aside the procedural and fundamental chewing, and let's put aside the fact that the powers here are being taken from the Central Bank and transferred to the Banking Board of Editing and Control, which is the crucial part. When we read the reason for this article, the interesting thing is -- and so is the fact that the government doesn't bring in the bill anymore, that maybe they can't face it, that they've turned it into an offer -- there's no reason to explain it properly. Dear friends, now in an electronic money exporting business given by the Central Bank, the basic procedures and foundations must be made and audited by the Central Bank. Let's give up on him, back to the issue in our motion, where we're both the Central Bank and the BDDK, and if you need this arrangement, let them do it together, and let BDK do the controlling part. Dear lawmakers, during the 57th Government, we had restored the Central Bank to full independence. Now, these are some of the practices that have been brought in in a roundabout way, some of the foundations that will cloud the structure of the Central Bank. They need to be given up because there are so many serious jobs and issues to be done... and given the trust index that's been explained these days, we're already facing a slowdown in the economy, both in consumer trust indexes and in real-estate trust indexes since 2009, so there's been serious declines since post-crisis. The arrangements to bring the agenda on this would have to be brought to the Assembly's General Assembly. Since 2012, we have faced a number of three-way practices in the Turkish economy. What are these? Low growth, low savings, low investment; on the other hand, the opposite, high inflation, high foreign debt, high external deficit. So your economic model is now bankrupt. We think we need to put this paradigm aside and face a new economic model. Dear friends, democratic legal institutions must also be needed in order for these reforms to be effective. So what you're going to do is, without a legal state, without a broader set of democratic rights, it's not possible to implement a decent economy, we offer our respects.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0412par0090	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "27" in the first joke of the 19th article of the proposed Law Proposal shall be changed into "30" and "55,000 at maximum." Erkan Akçay Ali Öz S. Nevzat Don't Fear Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Münir Kutluata Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of the 705-row bill, dated 3/6/2011, be removed from the proposal of the 19th article of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 633, that they make their first marriage before they reach the age of 27. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Leader of the Hasip Tiger Secret Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after Article 3 of Article 19 of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws, which are being discussed in the General Assembly in 705 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ilyas Candy Bulent Turan Avni Erdemir Hakan Çağoğlu Zülfü Demirbağ Hussein Fiz, the Conqueror Double-Double ===Results===The total amount of the amount in the state's dowry account, provided the account holder is entitled to the state contribution, is inadmissible, irreparable, and cannot be included in the bankruptcy table, excluding child support debts. According to the third joke, the Council of Ministers shall be appointed according to the procedure and basis of the third joke to increase the amount of the account holder's dowry, which cannot be consumable, cannot be repossessed, cannot be included in the bankruptcy table. After the application date for the account owner to receive the state contribution, the payment to the bank foreclosure, hostage and bankruptcy demand will be suspended until the state's contribution is made clear." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Law Orders of the State of Laws, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 Congressmans; Orders of the Law and Laws of Some Law and Orders of the Ministry of National Education Offering to Change the Law and Orders of the National Education Party; A draft draft of the Law on the Decision of the State of Law, Manisa MP Free Special; Minister of Manisa Free Special on the Order of Public Institutions and Orders to Change the Law in Some Laws and Services Orders of Some Laws; Minister of the People's Party for Public Law; and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the State's Committee for Education and the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Education of the State of the State of the Law, and the Law shall be made by the Ministry of Law, and the Ministry of Law, and the Ministry of the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan İzzet Cetin "MEDDE 19 - 3/6/2011 and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 633 added the following clause to the decision on the Agency and its duties. "Courage Account and State Additives EK MADDE 2- (1) Under Article 28 of Turkish Citizenship Act 29/05/2009 and Article 5901 under the Law of Turkish Citizenship No. 5411, State contributions are paid according to method and basis according to the third joke, in which accession banks will open a dowry account of Turkish Liras, stay in the system for at least three years, do not exceed 27 years, and apply their marriage to the relevant bank. The state contribution payment could not exceed 20 per cent of the total total amount and the maximum of 10,000 Turkish liras. The maximum amount is increased every year by the rate of reassessment. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase the maximum amount by threefold. (2) State contribution is covered on the basis of the budget for this purpose and paid to the rightful owner through the bank. The bank is responsible for the identification of right ownership and the accurate and accurate calculation of the state's contribution. It is reported by the Ministry that the amount of interest on Amme Acquisitions, dated 21/07/1953, should be paid within a month, as well as at the rate of a delay increase in Article 51 of the Law, which is stated in Article 6183. If no payment is paid during this period, they will receive this, followed and collected from relevant banks according to the laws referred to by the IRS. (3) Under this clause, the Minister's Council of Ministers shall determine the amount of state contribution and the maximum amount according to the amount of time the account holders have planned to pay for the state contribution, and the amount of time they have been saving and the amount of time they're making, according to the limits set in the first joke, the way and the way the Ministry of Accounts has taken into consideration for the audits and other issues aimed at implementing them and implementing them." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0413par0129	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0412par0130	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0414par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge on our proposal in Article 19 of Proposition 705. I salute you all. Now, this clause envisions a dowry account for the state contribution, which will not exceed $5 billion for three years, including at the age of 27, should be transferred into the dowry account. Now, this arrangement has three dimensions. The first is the social size, and we, as a social democratic party, care about this social dimension. The second dimension is the size of domestic savings. As you know, domestic savings have dropped to 13 percent and is one of the most important problems in our economy. Therefore, we can expect the dowry account to lead people to some savings. In this regard, we can also partially view it as positive. But the actual dimension of this -- I've tried to explain in the talk that I've made in general -- is that it's actually the demographic of the AKP, or the population policy, or whatever you want to call it, it's about this and it's related to that. There is no other regulation in the world that encourages the lower age of marriage to increase multi-childhood, or, rather, increase the number of children, and prevent the population from aging. You can help the born child, you can make arrangements for this, but an arrangement that envisions lowering the age of marriage to give parents more time in marriage to increase the number of children is not found anywhere in the world, which is probably a Turkish policy. The questions we asked about why this was needed in the commission's work were that the age of marriage in Turkey is rising rapidly. The average age of marriage in men reached 26.8; the average age of marriage in women reached 23.6. Therefore, it is necessary to prevent too much marriage age from rising so that parents can have as many children as possible in marriage. The first thing to be judged here is AKP's demographic policy or population policy. Look, the motive can be very innocent, and you can say: "Nufus dynamics, in order to benefit from the dynamics of the population, the population must not grow old. For an aging population, it must be used by its demographic window of opportunity during the next period. Thus, it is necessary to prevent the aging of the population from happening in the middle and in the long term. The important thing is that the already dynamic population should be bringing economic policies, macropolitics, to the economy in the coming period, while increasing the efficiency of that population, we want to assess that it is not the right policy to always try to keep that population young and try to keep the number of children as long as possible. It's out of the question for us to rise and grow like this. But you can increase the population. You might say the demographic window of opportunity stays open forever and the population increases, but that policy doesn't get us anywhere. Moreover, look, in Turkey, especially in the east and southeast, especially for girls, we consider marriage to be a sociological event at a very low age and a problem. So, especially in a place where there's a very important issue, such as the issue of children's brides, where we have a sociological reality, because the age of marriage is rising, let's keep them down and encourage them as early as possible, and we assess that their policy for marriage is not sociologically correct and not appropriate for Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, in order for this to become a complete social policy tool, there must have been a variation of income differences. However, this arrangement did not include any changes in our Commission, despite our insistence on this. If the goal was to give government contribution to small-income citizens who wanted to get married but couldn't get married, I think that providing more state contributions to citizens with narrower incomes should have been put into this system, but then I think it would have done its social function better. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0415par0146	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Vural, you have a request.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0416par0151	Mr. President, there's something. Just now, Mr. Secretary, this is our land on 16-17 islands. We need to properly inform the MPs in the face of their statements and so forth. In 2008, a Greek helicopter on Bulamaç Island puts the General Staff on this breach site because it violated the airspace. The State Department wants this declaration to be lifted, and a meeting is being held, and they say it's an actual invasion of these islands, and a political decision is needed for the removal of this invasion. In June 2009, Foreign Minister Davutoglu told the United States Ambassador that the ownership of Bulamac and the Donkey Islands is suspicious. After that, Greece says: "He is never a suspect, he is our islands." Now, Mr. Secretary says here: "It is our land." But it seems that, in fact, the political will over all attempts to violate our sovereignty over our land has failed to make a decision. On September 26, 2012, it was again Bulamaç Island, 03. The Turkish Coast Guard boat arrives there at 00, and you're in the Greek domain, they say, "Get out." And you're abandoned. On May 19, 2011, the Democratic Party's attempt to go to Donkey Island is blocked and you cannot enter the territory of Greek sovereignty. We see that all of this on these islands -- which you just expressed -- is that the government does not create any political will to protect our rights of sovereignty, and will legalise the situation, and that there are various statements against your statement, expressing that its identity is suspicious. In fact, what needs to be done about all of this is to be carried out by doing really quickly research on it. I've been promised these. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0417par0158	Thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after Article 3 of Article 19 of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws, which are being discussed in the General Assembly in 705 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends ===Results===The total amount of the amount in the state's dowry account, provided the account holder is entitled to the state contribution, is inadmissible, irreparable, and cannot be included in the bankruptcy table, excluding child support debts. According to the third joke, the Council of Ministers shall be appointed according to the procedure and basis of the third joke to increase the amount of the account holder's dowry, which cannot be consumable, cannot be repossessed, cannot be included in the bankruptcy table. After the application date for the account owner to receive the state contribution, the payment to the bank foreclosure, hostage and bankruptcy demand will be suspended until the state's contribution is made clear." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0418par0168	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0417par0169	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The proposed amendment aims to ensure that the total amount of the amount in the dowry account will not be consolidated, renegotiated, and cannot be included in the bankruptcy table, except in alimony debts. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of the 705-row bill, dated 3/6/2011, be removed from the proposal of the 19th article of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 633, that they make their first marriage before they reach the age of 27. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0419par0180	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0417par0181	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The relevant clause of the bill is intended to add an incentive for early marriage to the legislation. The understanding that encourages early marriage is an understanding that imposes its own ideological approach to the public using public opportunities. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "27" in the first joke of the 19th article of the proposed Law Proposal shall be changed into "30" and "55,000 at maximum" in the form of "30 and 10,000 at maximum." Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0420par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0417par0193	Does the government agree? INTERVIEWING, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0421par0198	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to make a call from here to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First of all, one of the first acts of the new Greek government's National Defence Minister, is to visit the Donkeys and Bulamaç Islands from these Turkish islands, which belong to Turkey. This is clearly a violation of the sovereignty rights. Your government says there's a problem of belonging. The Greek government says there is no problem with belonging, claiming that the Greeks are theirs. Now, Mr. Secretary, we suggest to the government that we all visit these islands, and the Secretary of State, escort them, escort them, lead them.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0422par0201	She's scared, she's scared...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0421par0202	We propose we all visit these islands together as the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0423par0203	Motion denied. What suggestion is accepted?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0421par0204	Now, since 2011, 2012, we, the National Movement Party, have been bringing these things up, both with our podium speeches and with our question proposals. The answers given by the government's National Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs are here, conflicting, inconsistencies, and this inconsistencies have just added a new discrepancy to the National Defence Minister, and unfortunately, Greece has actual applications. What a disgrace! Do you have any idea what you've done to the Republic of Turkey, our state, our country and our nation? If there's a conflict, he'll never intervene. Even in the simplest field cases... in Anatolia, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases were born from violations of the borders of these fields. With what understanding, with what mentality, with the state consciousness, with the consciousness of the law? You are committing crimes against Article 302 of the Turkish Penal Code, and as Secretary of State, as Prime Minister, you will be charged with this crime. We're watching this with an example, unfortunately. If there's a conflict, if there's a problem with belonging, you shouldn't give it a real chance, we shouldn't. Our views on these issues of the National Movement Party are very clear and clear. The 19th article includes valuable friends, dowry, and government assistance. These regulations reflect the look of the creamy crust to the poor on the eve of the election. The value of this rule's creamy layer, its ruling owners, its children's basic homes, it pays for the housing contribution to 5,000 citizens -- the other, as in the 20th article -- for the dowry to be due, to be categorized. Do you have a job for young people? No one's asking if you have a vaccine. Hundreds of thousands of young professionals are unemployed and unable to be appointed. Teachers, engineers, archaeologists, veterinarians are unemployed and millions of young. There is an official unemployment rate that exceeds 20%. How are you going to open a dowry for the unemployed? By God, this arrangement reminded me that those who can't find bread should eat cake, which is attributed to a famous French queen. So, if you're sincere, if you're well-intentioned, if you're not just for propaganda, you have to accept our motion. As far as government contributions go, we're talking about raising the age from 27 to 30, and up from 20 per cent to 30 per cent, and we're trying to limit the money support and the maximum of 10,000 liras. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0424par0209	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following declaration to Article 20, which stipulates to add additional clauses to the Constitution of Law No. 633, to the proposed bill number 705. ▪ Those who are not maxed out of the minimum wage can benefit from this arrangement. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Secrets by Dareyya Leader Adil Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first article of the 20th article of the current Law Proposal, we propose and propose that the declaration of "20 and the maximum 15,000 Turkish liras " be replaced by" 30 and the maximum 30,000 Turkish liras" and that the following joke be added after the third joke. "For the first time, in the event of housing, the transfer and economic operations of real estate are exempt from all forms of tuition." Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Adnan Şişek Ugly Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Order of Public Institutions to Change the Law and Orders of Some Laws; and the Law and the Public Education Ministry's Law on Orders and Orders of Law shall be drafted in accordance with the Law, and the Manisa MP Free Special's Commission shall be prepared to make changes in Articles of the Law, and the Minister's Minister's Minister of Education and the Minister's Minister's Committee for Education, and the Minister's Minister's Committee for Education and the Minister's Committee for Education and the Minister's Office of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Law shall be made by the Ministry of Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Müslim Sarı Ali Serindağ Chooses Vahaap Izzet Cetin "The following article has been added to the provisions under the rule of law 20 - 633. "Construction Account and State Aid Turkish citizens who do not own a dwelling will be paid according to the third joke, if they open a housing account in Turkish Liras, stay in the system for at least three years, and seek the appropriate bank for the first and only dwelling they will buy at home, according to procedure and basis. The state contribution payment is in the account, and cannot exceed 20 per cent of the total amount and 20,000 tops of the Turkish liras. The maximum amount is increased every year by the rate of reassessment. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase the maximum amount by threefold. These provisions do not apply to those who enter into Article 28 of the Law 5901. (2) State contribution is covered on the basis of the budget for this purpose and paid to the rightful owner through the bank. The bank is responsible for the identification of right ownership and the accurate and accurate calculation of the state's contribution. It is reported by the Ministry that the amount of time passed from the date of the government contribution, which has been unfairly determined to be collected, should be paid within a month, along with the amount of interest specified in Article 51 of the Law at the rate of a delay increase in Article 51. If no payment is paid during this period, they will receive this, followed and collected from relevant banks according to the laws referred to by the IRS. (3) Under this clause, the quality of the dwellings to be subject to state contribution, account owners' payment plans, determine the deadlines for the state contribution, and according to the budgetary deadlines, the state contribution rate and maximum amount are determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Secretary of Ministers on which the Treasury Undersecretary is bound to vary within the limits set in the first joke, the way and the opinion of the ministry on the rules of accounts and other issues aimed at implementing." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0425par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0424par0240	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0426par0245	Mr. President, Congressman, I salute you all. One of the pre-election, sort of greeting arrangements of this bag offer is this 20th article and 19th, 20th, 21st article. In fact, it's called dowry allowance, housing allowance, child welfare, but it's not much help. See, now, the dowry and housing allowance for the first dwellings are very similar, so it's systematic. The point here is to save money, to save society. You know, our savings rate is extremely low, Turkey. Well, of course, if you have money, you can save money. Now, when I look at this arrangement, it's not going to be so conflicted that there are thousands of people working at minimum wage for 980 TL in Turkey, when there are millions of people living under the poverty line, it's really a joke. It says: Open a housing account first, and leave your money there, saving three years in this system. Yes, then apply, and I'll give you the maximum 20 percent of the savings you've made, or 15,000 TL, as housing aid. Now, when you look at it, it may look like a very innocent arrangement, as a social aid, but as I just said, the real goal is to encourage saving. There is a saying that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. Yes, the mountain will give birth to a mouse. This actually, in practice -- we'll all see -- will have no positive consequences. Now, in this arrangement, of course, we don't say that there should be a housing allowance, and we don't say that there shouldn't be. In fact, we ask that the maximum amount of assistance to be made in our proposal be raised from 15,000 TL to 20,000 TL. Since you're doing such a thing, let's make a truly remarkable contribution to our first citizens. Of course, when you study it, there are some difficulties here, in this arrangement, and there are some flaws. That's what we've expressed in the commission's work as we make these arrangements. If this is what we're doing, let's do a proper job. Now, there's no separation of income level here, so there's no separation on it, under a certain amount of poverty or income. Therefore, the low-income citizen and the low-income citizen will be able to benefit from it. But it would be more accurate if we did this to low-income citizens. Those who own a dwelling -- of course they will have the first dwelling -- of course they can make it to the well; they can sell the dwelling in their possession, and they can receive new help called the first dwelling. And that's actually something that needs to be fixed. Again, there's a third issue. It's an individual basis instead of a family base. So more than one family member can have this dwelling, not only one individual in a family, but more than one family member who meets these conditions. Now, my dear friends, of course, one of the major sectors of economic growth has been described as the construction industry during your administrations. In 2014, Turkey -- I'll give you the figures -- 1.1 million homes have changed hands, and about 10 per cent of these dwellings are the first. Now, here... because we're bringing in a condition, we're saying that the first housing owners who will receive this help will take place. The ratio is extremely low, so the goal is a non-existent arrangement, and I'm trying to point it out. Of course, housing supply is extremely high, especially in large cities such as Istanbul, an arrangement to melt it in a sense. So, let's just contribute to the yurt, let's have a dwelling, not an arrangement for the industry. In 2012, the rate of borrowing and housing was 42 per cent, which dropped to 33 per cent in 2013. So, really, as in other sectors, in the construction industry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're in serious trouble. Of course, we can't hide it under the water. In our proposal, as I said, we aim to increase the maximum amount of assistance from 15,000 TL to 20,000 TL. I hope you'll support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0427par0259	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0428par0261	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit07spe0427par0262	We've got enough to decide... All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0427par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 8th Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Law Proposal No. 705 was selected by Mersin MP Vahab on Article 20, and the decision of his friends had not been reached. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the "20th and maximum 15,000 Turkish liras" in the first joke of the 20th article of the current Law Proposal to "30 and 30,000 Turkish liras" and to add the following joke after the third joke. " (4) In the event of first-ever housing, real estate is exempted from all forms of tuition. " Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0429par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0427par0013	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0430par0018	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 20th Amendment. I salute you all. Under the regulation of this 20th article, if the banks open a housing account in domestic branches and buy the first dwelling for Turkish citizens who remain in the system for at least three years, 20 per cent of what they have saved in the account and will be paid a maximum of 15,000 lira state contribution. Sir, this clause reminds me of Nasrettin Hoxha. You remember, Hodja Nasrettin owes money, the creditors always come to the door. Last time he was here, he gave a bag of thorn seeds to the creditors. He said, "What's this?" He said, "It's a seed of thorns. What's going to happen?" He said, "I've paid my debt." What am I supposed to do with this? Like this, you will plant it on the edges of the roads and plant it. And the sheep shall pass by, and the goats shall pass by, and as they pass by, thou shalt put on their wool, and thou shalt gather them, and thou shalt wash them, and thou shalt sell them. Nasrettin Hodja said, "You laugh when you see the bad money and the cash." I mean, pre-election implementation is a difficult arrangement. Our motion makes these application conditions more practical, more concrete. According to the government's proposal, for example, a citizen who saves $75,000 in three years in the bank to buy a $150,000 dwelling will be given 20 per cent of the money he saves, which is an upper border housing allowance. This supports only 10 per cent of the total cost of the house. In three years, has the government ever considered the interest interest of 75 million liras? I'd appreciate some information on that. I mean, if a citizen deposits the money into a bank, there's more interest in it, and social media makes a huge joke about it. Now, with our motion, the 15,000-dollar housing allowance limit is raised to 30,000 liras. Thus, a citizen who saves $75,000 in three years to buy a dwelling is raised from $15,000 to $22,500. For the first time, those who will own a dwelling must first open a mortgage account in banks in order to receive housing contributions and support. It is required to save at least three years for public support in the housing account, and if we remember, domestic savings rates dropped from 18.6% in 2002 to 13.7% in 2013, and were envisioned as 14 per cent for 2014, and unfortunately, we can't see the signs of that ascent. The main purpose of this arrangement is not to make non-residential citizens landlords, but to increase individual savings, encourage savings, revitalize the construction industry, and in the interest lobby -- let's remember -- is to provide new runs. In fact, our citizens would like to be more indebted by raising the volume of mortgage use to 200 billion dollars at the end of 2014. Dear friends, our most practical suggestion in this proposal is that, you know, both buyers and sellers pay 4 per cent of the deed in accordance with the Law of Harçes in housing sales, and because the seller reflects this fee at this price, the entire deed is usually on the buyer. For the first time, our proposal will provide 4 per cent of the allowance in housing sales, except housing allowance, which will measure the most practical support, contribution and intimacy for the first time. A person who will buy a dwelling for 150,000 liras will receive an additional $6,000. We think that the first housing will be supported and that the construction industry's viability will be more practical. With these thoughts, I wish you all the satisfaction of our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0431par0026	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following declaration to Article 20, which stipulates to add additional clauses to the Constitution of Law No. 633, to the proposed bill number 705. ▪ Those who do not exceed the minimum salary by maximum income can benefit from this arrangement." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0432par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0431par0035	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm having it read. The construction sector, which the AKP government has made the engine of the economy, is experiencing a serious recession. This sector, which is low in value production, has also been an area where capital groups close to power provide huge routs. A reduction in the demand for housing with this clause of the bill is now being tried to balance with this arrangement. In this case, there will be a number of new Rantfields and unjust use of public resources. Today, housing for the poor remains a serious problem. The aim is to address the problems that will arise with change and to benefit the low-income residents who need housing. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal for law number 705 to be changed into "$300 for the first child born alive, $400 for the second child, $600 for the third child, and $600 for the first three children born alive to be given birth aid for each of them." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added and added to the article for the next 12 months, after the notice of the Turkish citizens of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 21 of the Common Law Proposal. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz Münir Kutluata S. Nevzat Don't be afraid Adnan Şeşek Ugly (7) A woman officer and employee are granted maternity leave for a total of 16 weeks, eight weeks before birth and eight after childbirth. In the case of plural pregnancy, eight weeks of prenatal maternity leave is added to two weeks. However, she can work at her institution for up to three weeks before the birth, at her request, documenting that she is fit to work until eight weeks before the expected birth date. In this case, on the basis of this prenatal report, her actual hours are added to postpartum maternity leave. Due to the early birth, the unusable part of prenatal maternity leave is added to the postnatal maternity leave period. In the event of the mother's death, mother's maternity leave may be granted the time prescribed for the father, who is a civil servant or worker at his request. In addition to the ones mentioned in the jokes (8) (8) and (8), officers can be allowed ten days in one year by the governor, the governor in the province, the chief of diplomatic missions abroad, and the head of the unit's supervisor in one year or in all, due to their excuses. The same procedure can be granted ten more days of leave, except for teachers. In that case, this second permit will be removed from the yearly leave. (9) A woman's worker or an officer is allowed three hours a day and a half an hour a day in the first six months, starting at the end of her maternity leave to breast-feed her child. The preference of a female officer or employee is essential as to what hours and how many times a day the milk permit will be used. That's about a day's work period. (10) During pregnancy, a woman's worker is given a paid permit for periodic checks. If required by the doctor's report, the pregnant woman will be employed in lighter jobs that fit the health of the worker. In this case, no discount can be made on the employee's salary. (11) Officers are allowed to excuse themselves for up to ten days in a total or division in one year, provided their child has at least 70 per cent disability (if the child is married and his wife is also disabled by at least 70 per cent). 12) Financial rights and social benefits are not touched, except for any payment that depends on actual work during annual leave and leave of absence. (13) A postpartum maternity leave is granted to the obstetrician officer from the end of the maternity leave given under this clause, while a wife who has given birth is granted a period of up to 24 months on her request from the date of birth. (14) At her request, a woman's workman is granted six months free of charge after her maternity period is completed. This period is not taken into account in the account of the annual sabbatical. The maternity period can be increased, if necessary, before and after birth, according to the health and work condition of the worker. These times are specified by the doctor's report. (15) Financial rights and social benefits are not touched, except for any payment that depends on actual work during annual leave and leave of absence. (16) Payments paid for 24 months for laboring female employees." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Law Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Ministry of Law; the Law and the Law shall be made by Manisa MP Free Special; the Ministry of Public Institutions and Institutions to Change the Law in Some Laws and Service Pages; the Law shall be made by the People's Party, the People's Party and the Minister's Minister's Minister of Education, and the Minister's Committee for Education, and the Minister's Order of Education, 21th Committee of Education, and the Law shall be appointed by the Parliamentary of the Parliament. We propose and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Müslim Sarı Ali Serindağ Chooses Vahaap Izzet Cetin "The following article has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Law 21 - 633. EK MADDE 4- (1) Turkish citizens receive $400 for their first child born alive, $500 for their second child, and $700 for their third and later children. This helps the mother or father who is a Turkish citizen and the mother who is both Turkish citizens. Obstetrics can be paid to the father in mandatory situations set by the Ministry. The birthing allowance is based on population records found in the I.D. Sharing System. Payments in this scope will be covered by the budget of the Ministry for this purpose. The Ministry and the Finance Ministry are jointly authorized to increase the amount mentioned in this joke. (2) From employees employed in public institutions and institutions, the difference can only be paid if the agreed amount of payment to the worker is less than the amount of payment for this clause, according to the individual contract of employment or collective contract of employment under which they are entitled to pay due to the delivery of the worker himself or his wife. If the agreed amount is higher than the amount of payment to be paid according to this clause, it is not paid according to this clause. (3) The employee employed in public institutions and institutions is not paid in accordance with the legislation for the same purpose under the maternity allowance or under the same name. (4) Those who enter into Article 28 of Law 5901 will receive the same benefit from these provisions. (5) Birth benefits are paid without tax or deduction, and cannot be confiscated. The payment will be reported in writing by the institution paying the wrong-doing benefit, with interest to be returned at the rate of a delay increase in Article 51 of Law 6183, due to the period in which the payment was collected from the date of the payment was collected within a month. If no payment is paid during this period, the following laws shall be followed and collected according to the laws referred to after the notice of these payments to the relevant tax office. (6) In six months, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Undersecretary of Treasury and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will be determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The Rahmi Türeli of Love, İzmir MP, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0433par0088	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 21st Article of Law Proposal 705 that we are discussing. I hereby salute the grand jury. Now, valuable lawmakers, in the 19th, 20th and 21st articles here, the mechanisms have been determined -- three kinds of dowry accounts, housing allowance and maternity aid -- in a sense, the state will contribute and help. Of course, first of all, I'd like to say that we are on the side of any arrangement that will benefit our citizens. And in that sense, we say, of course, the birth aid here should be given. In fact, in our motion, we said that these amounts should be increased a little bit more. But, of course, we have to say one thing: by encouraging this population growth, we need to understand that Turkey is not going anywhere, dear friends. There are no developing, developing countries in the world that have increased its population. The important thing is to be able to give good education to that population, to your existing population, and to establish a working environment, an economic environment that can employ them. When you don't do that, it's impossible for this country to grow by increasing the population. Oh, please? Because your population is growing, the country's national income seems to be high, but, of course, in national income, it's not the total income of a country, it's the national income per capita; in that regard, it's not contributing to the country's economic development. Of course, on the other hand, we know that Turkey will still benefit from the window of demographic opportunity by 2030, so there is no aging in Turkey's population until 2030; after that, there will be aging after 2030. We discussed this in detail at the Commission. Well, if he gets old, he'll grow old, my friends. I mean, how far can we go by increasing the population to the adjective because it won't age? So there are 7 billion people in the world, so 10 billion, 15 billion, how far can that go? So, the important thing is, as I said, to establish an environment that can sustain this population in human conditions. On the other hand, we now know that today's production techniques and technologies have reached a point where you don't need as much work as you used to. It's like that in the agriculture industry, so, uh, it's like that in the industry. In the past, these people have done what maybe 100 people have done, one machine a day, and there's one worker standing over the machine, and even three or four machines running it all at once. So there's no need for that much population growth. Today, when you look at countries with high populations -- look at India, look at China -- there are certain developments in them, but not because of rapid population growth. But of course, the rapid population growth increases the labor supply, providing a pool for the labor force, providing a working pool. But if you create an environment for him to work for low wages, negative working conditions, very long periods of time, not give him the right to work, then, of course, you will benefit from it. But that's not the right thing to do, and that's not what Turkey should do. What Turkey must do is specialise in the production of high-value goods and services, and it is to train its workforce in that direction, and it is to harmonise the population policy. Of course, all of this actually points to a social security system, a social security system. Look, guys, a social security system has three legs: social insurance, social services and welfare. The problem with Turkey, like I just said, is not to create a structure where many different elements -- such as dowry accounts, housing allowance, birth aid -- are already very many -- come together to create an integrated structure, which means that all three of them, in other words, will work together in harmony with primized systems and primless systems. On the other hand, the sum of social benefits is low for Turkey -- I'm telling you the figures of the state -- 20.1 billion for 2013, which corresponds to 1.28 per cent of the national income. Dear friends, OECD average is 2.5 percent. Mr. Secretary, this needs to increase, especially in the developing country, such as Turkey, need to increase social benefits. Again, there are the same aid mechanisms, such as coal and supplies, which are very open to both abuse and political exploitation. There's a multi-privileged structure in welfare. Right now, I'm talking about the numbers of the government that are giving social benefits -- the number of institutions is 8 friends in 2013. The important thing is to build a system, to build an integrated system, to give, to donate, not to give. But we need to establish a social protection system where people can use their civil rights. That's why we created family insurance as the Republican People's Party, and with family insurance, we increase the amount of benefits and share in national income, and we create a system that is extremely efficient, working together, compatible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And what we suggest to you as the Republican People's Party is that you take and use this family insurance that we've established because we're using it for Turkey, and that's why we're using it in the budget, but if you don't use it, then that's what we're going to use when we're in power in the election after June 7th. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0434par0104	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added and added to the article for the next 12 months, after the notice of the Turkish citizens of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 21 of the Common Law Proposal. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends (7) A woman officer and employee are granted maternity leave for a total of 16 weeks, eight weeks before birth and eight after childbirth. In the case of plural pregnancy, eight weeks of prenatal maternity leave is added to two weeks. However, she can work at her institution for up to three weeks before the birth, at her request, documenting that she is fit to work until eight weeks before the expected birth date. In this case, on the basis of this prenatal report, her actual hours are added to postpartum maternity leave. Due to the early birth, the unusable part of prenatal maternity leave is added to the postnatal maternity leave period. In the event of the mother's death, mother's maternity leave may be granted the time prescribed for the father, who is a civil servant or worker at his request. In addition to the ones mentioned in the jokes (8) (8) and (8), officers can be allowed ten days in one year by the governor, the governor in the province, the chief of diplomatic missions abroad, and the head of the unit's supervisor in one year or in all, due to their excuses. Ten more days of leave can be granted in the same manner, except for teachers. In that case, this second permit will be removed from the yearly leave. (9) A woman's worker or an officer is allowed three hours a day and a half an hour a day in the first six months, starting at the end of her maternity leave to breast-feed her child. The preference of a female officer or employee is essential as to what hours and how many times a day the milk permit will be used. That's about a day's work period. (10) During pregnancy, a woman's worker is given a paid permit for periodic checks. If required by the doctor's report, the pregnant woman will be employed in lighter jobs that fit the health of the worker. In this case, no discount can be made on the employee's salary. (11) Officers are allowed to excuse themselves for up to ten days in a total or division in one year, provided their child has at least 70 per cent disability (if the child is married and his wife is also disabled by at least 70 per cent). 12) Financial rights and social benefits are not touched, except for any payment that depends on actual work during annual leave and leave of absence. (13) A postpartum maternity leave is granted to the obstetrician officer from the end of the maternity leave given under this clause, while a wife who has given birth is granted a period of up to 24 months on her request from the date of birth. (14) At her request, a woman's workman is granted six months free of charge after her maternity period is completed. This period is not taken into account in the account of the annual sabbatical. The maternity period can be increased, if necessary, before and after birth, according to the health and work condition of the worker. These times are specified by the doctor's report. (15) Financial rights and social benefits are not touched, except for any payment that depends on actual work during annual leave and leave of absence. (16) Payments paid for 24 months for laboring female employees." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0435par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0434par0122	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0436par0127	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 21st Amendment. I salute you all. Turkey's citizens are given 300 euros for its first child born alive, 400 for its second child, and 600 lira for its third and later children, in accordance with the 21st article of this proposal. Of course, these benefits for newborn children are positive. But now that we've done something positive, let's do it right now. And in our motion, we see that for a longer period of time. Why do we say that, valuable lawmakers, every year in our country, the rate of birth decreases depending on the rate of population growth. As the years go by, in fact, Turkey is going through a transition from the younger population to the younger and older population. The rate of population growth was 18.3 per thousand in 2000, while in 2012, the population rose to 12 per thousand in 2012. The average age of Turkey rose to 28.5. In 2008, to 30.1. Turkey, which is unable to take advantage of the opportunity for demographic change, will pay a much heavier price when it grows older than it does for developed countries. In particular, the pension, health care and elderly care bill from the elderly population will make the cost even more economically heavy. In addition to the impact of modernisation and urbanization at the rate of population growth, population planning, economic difficulties and short maternity leave are effective. In particular, we, in our proposal, bring important and extremely reasonable suggestions about the birth permits of our working women. For the first time, those who want to be mothers or mothers again cannot perform this sacred task because of the shortness of either economic or maternity leave. Every newborn has an additional financial burden on the family budget. The income tax will not be cut for 24 months from mothers giving birth with our proposal, but will be contributed to the family budget, and the additional financial burden of the child is paid, and the birth is also encouraged for our working women. If the birth is encouraged, the country's population rate will rise, so the young population in our country will increase, and in the long term, we will face much less demographical challenges. According to scientific studies, breast milk provides perfectly for the baby's physiological and psychosocial needs for the first six months after childbirth and strengthens the bond between the mother and the baby. Breast-feeding and breast-feeding have many benefits in health, immunity, development, psychological, social, and economic ways, especially for the baby and the mother. Thus, in our country, as in the world, it was accepted as a week of breastfeeding from October 1st to October 8th. Feeding on breast milk has a very positive effect on advanced life health. Nursing breast milk reduces health care, child health care decreases workforce, loss of workday, loss of leave and loss of money. UNICEF and the World Health Organization recommend that as of the first six months of babies' birth, only breast milk, other solid and liquid foods, without water, and from the seventh month, start solid and porridge supplements. The first six months were launched by the Ministry of Health and UNICEF co-operation to ensure increased baby life rates and healthy generations across Turkey. The proposal recommends that the maternity leave of women officers and workers after childbirth be extended from eight weeks to twenty-four weeks, with the total maternity leave of women and workers increased from 16 weeks to thirty-two weeks. In multiple prenatal maternity leave is cut from ten weeks to 12 weeks. I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0437par0136	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal number 705 in which the first child born alive will be given $300 for the second child, $400 for the second child, $600 for the third child, and 600 for each of the first three children born alive to be given birth aid for each of them." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0438par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0437par0144	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Increased maternity aid is an incentive to give birth to many children. It is an ideological dimension, as it is unethical to do so directly by public hand. It is clear that such an arrangement is oppressive and compelling for women. It is clear that this provision, which gives women no careers or careers outside of motherhood, is a manifestation of the political mind, that she will be exposed to more segregating gender roles in society. A change was intended to change the arrangements for women to be under more pressure and create an equitable legislation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to add and propose the declaration of "members of the municipality appointed by the relevant municipalities" following the proposal of the 705 rankings, which states 8/1/2002, and Article 22 under the Article 22 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, under which there is a amendment to Article 1 of Family and Social Policy and Finance. İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Law; the Minister of Public Institutions and Institutions' Development of Property and Service Pages; the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of Education of the Law and the Council of the National Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin "MEDDE 22 - 8/1/2002. The following joke has been added to the article 8 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, and is produced by Public Institutions No. 4736. "As part of the second and third joke provisions, each transport vehicle for private persons or companies authorized by municipalities pays income allowance each month through municipalities related to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for each of them for private shipping services. Other basics and procedures related to differentiating and payment of to-do monthly income allowance by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are determined within three months, depending on the capacity to move and transport every transport vehicle owned by private persons or companies authorized by the municipalities." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 705, is 22. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Ali Ali Öz, Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz The following joke was added after the article of Article 1 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, with the Recipes of Property and Service by Public Institutions No. 4736, dated 22-8/2002. "As part of the second and third joke provisions, each transport vehicle for private persons or companies authorized by municipalities pays income allowance each month through municipalities related to the payment of the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, for private shipping and railway transport. In six months, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance shall determine the amount of income to be paid annually, differentiated from the capacity to transport and pay each transport vehicle owned by private persons or companies authorized by the municipality and/or municipalities." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0439par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0437par0178	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Ali Öz, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0440par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the implementation of this bag bill is the correct application, but in our motion, we demand that a similar practice be carried out not only on land and sea but also on the railways. So, in fact, it's impossible to understand why the Commission and the government do not participate in the right that the disabled should benefit from. The disabled, of course, have very important problems in our country. We know that these are always ignored, only remembered at certain times, that the disabled do not get the majority of the rights that they really need. In our country, as in all Western countries, the disabled population, on average, corresponds to about 10 to 12 percent of the total population. We know the disabled are deprived of most of what they deserve. Other than that, there is a need to draw attention to a very important problem with the disabled living in our country. First of all, I'd have to say that we're all normally disabled candidates, that all of the people living within the country today, even though they're healthy, have no congenital apologies or barriers, there's a chance that one day they'll be disabled. When we look at it this way, people who are thinking about doing something to solve the problem of the disabled, especially the Turkish Parliament and lawmakers, must end the barrier in their minds. We've been saying for a long time that the obstacle rate of our disabled citizens should be defined, and we've expressed it, especially as the National Movement Party Group, we've expressed it in commissions. Apart from the state of anatomic apology in the body, the disabled must be redefined according to standards in the Western countries. When we give these rights, we consider them disabled when the body of the people we put into disability status has only over 40 percent of anatomical autonomy. However, the degree of apology received by a citizen, for example, who has lost an eye, which is seriously disturbed in one organ, does not put him in the disabled class. So we know that we have a large number of people who have lost the rights that our citizens have lost from being put into disability status, especially in terms of employment, that they have a very important place in the separation between healthy and disabled, that these people remain in the middle, that these people are not healthy, that they are not well accepted, that they are under 40 percent of the level of apology, that they have been taken into the handicapped group. In fact, in order to make an adjustment to their problems, I'd like to say that it is absolutely important that the Turkish Grand National Assembly defines the definition of their problems in international standards. I'd like to say that it's not proper for the disabled in our country to be paid frequently due to a change of address in the disabled and disabled care. The citizen has gone, somehow registered his disability with a medical board report, his economic situation, family income, determined according to the number of people working in the family, but when there is a change in residence, these people are being victimised by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, they are being cut off from their assigned monthly periods, so in between, they are not paid back to themselves, even though they deserve it. While this victimism can actually be resolved by a simple arrangement, these citizens are often victimized because they are not sensitive about it. In the past period, we know that our disabled citizens, written in very small puntos, are severely in debt to the state, when their situation somehow changes or when the family's economic income increases. In these arrangements, to eliminate the victimization of such citizens, I respectfully salute your high-ranking delegation, in order to ensure that our people who have been exposed to this will be paid back at least without interest or to forgive their debts in the idea that it is in the interest of disabled citizens.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0441par0190	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 705 lines of law and law enforcement proposals for amendments in Articles of Law and Law, and Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Order of Law and the Order of the Ministry of National Education Proposals for amendments to the Law on Orders and Orders of the Law; the Minister of Public Institutions and Institutions' Development of Property and Service Pages; the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of Education of the Law and the Council of the National Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends "MEDDE 22 - 8/1/2002. The following joke has been added to the article 8 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws, and is produced by Public Institutions No. 4736. "As part of the second and third joke provisions, each transport vehicle for private persons or companies authorized by municipalities pays income allowance each month through municipalities related to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for each of them for private shipping services. Other basics and procedures related to differentiating and payment of to-do monthly income allowance by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are determined within three months, depending on the capacity to move and transport every transport vehicle owned by private persons or companies authorized by the municipalities." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0442par0205	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 22 of the bag law. It's the right substance, something that should have been done long ago. Why am I saying this? Because in November 2013, I made a five-minute speech about it, expressing the problems of van drivers in Turkey, the tradesman in public transportation. Again, in July 2014, I submitted a research motion on this, and we talked about it here, and together, with the AKP's votes, my research motion was rejected. He's really having a hard time with the van shop. I won't count one of the biggest problems of these problems, but one of them was a problem with our citizens, who they carried for free or for free, which they added to the 65-year-old group, which was the biggest of them, and they put more stress on their troubles. Van drivers, of course, while we're carrying our citizens in 17 different groups like this, I'd like to give you an example of my own knowledge, for example, the number of people that van drivers carry for free in the province of Kopeeli. So 110,000 people in the population of 1,700,000 were taking advantage of it for free or on discount. Who's in these groups? There's students, there's teachers, there's gendarmes, there's police, there's disability, there's martyrs, there's veterans, there's students, and the last one is 65 years old, and the van drivers are starting to move 65 years. Each election period required a bribe, and he tried to bribe the van drivers with the AKP government, giving the last 65 years of age. Well, isn't the van guy the shopkeeper the barber, the coffee maker, the baker? No one there was doing free shopping, these 110,000 people weren't buying discounted bread, they weren't buying free bread. Then what were we supposed to do under the social government? We had to repair the victimization of this van shop. What does it mean to go? If he's giving these citizens this job as a public service, if he's giving them for free, the government should have paid for it. Now, whether it's a late election investment or not... because I said it in 2013, I said it in 2014, it was rejected by AKP votes every time. Now, it turns out we were right, and you put this clause in the bag of law. Is it true? That's true, but when you look at the result, what do you give authority to? With a budget from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the amount the municipalities will set on year-to-year, the amount they will pay monthly. Why are you doing this? Again, I'm giving an example of my own city. No one's paid to get in a van in my town. They don't get in the city vehicle, they don't get in the cars run by private cooperatives, they don't get in the personal vehicles, they don't get in public transportation. They're all on cards and they're coming down with cards. Here we know our fellow martyrs who ride cards, our citizens over 65 who ride cards here, our students who ride cards, our gendarmes who ride cards here, our mailman, all of them. Why do you feel the need to give these municipalities the opportunity to create political material for them? And it's determined on a year-to-year basis. The van-man's shop takes their money every Friday through the UKOME, or they actually charge for the passenger they carry every day. They only take Saturday, Sundays on Monday. Why are you handing over the money of the disabled, the 65-year-old you've had carried in or 17 other groups -- as if it's a favor to the city -- as if you're doing a favor for the van driver? It's a political investment, actually. The city will pay if he gets along well with the co-op or if he's a co-op, but if he's not a co-op, or if he's not a co-op, or if the city's in trouble at work, what's he going to do with the money he has to pay? He won't pay or there'll be trouble. Yeah, the election's coming up, there's an election on June 7th, and you started handing out bribes. We need to prevent that poverty by providing jobs and employment to people, not by making people poor, but by making people poor. If you understand, I would like to congratulate all of you if you really think that the last item, the minimum wage, can benefit from these jobs. I bid you good night, thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0443par0216	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to add and propose the declaration of "members of the municipality appointed by the relevant municipalities" following the proposal of the 705 rankings of the 7/1/2002, under Article 22 under which Article 1 of the Law shall be changed in some Laws by the Public Institutions and Services Institutions of 4736, as well as by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and Finance. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The change aims to include the decision-making process in local governments. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft law proposal of 705 rows on the Ekli (2) list shall be replaced by the 13/12/1983 general staff and shall be added to the section of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy (I). İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 23rd Amendment of the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay It was included in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Covenant I (I) of General Staff No. 190, and the Council of Law (I), dated 13/12/1983, on the list of staffs listed on the 23-Ekli (2). THE PRODUCTION OF FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICIES Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Order of Public Institutions and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the State of Education and the Council of Education and the Council of Education and the Council of Education and the Council of State of State. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Izzet Cetin, Bült Kuşoğlu of Rahmi Küreli of Love Ali Serindağ Ali Original Refik Eryılmaz Müslim Sarı Ali Riza Özturk It was included in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Covenant I (I) of General Staff No. 190, and the Council of Law (I), dated 13/12/1983, on the list of staffs listed on the 23-Ekli (2). THE PRODUCTION OF FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICIES Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0444par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0443par0264	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0445par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute the MPs on the General Assembly at this time of night. Dear friends, I, in fact, have made a commitment to the staff profiling of the 23rd article, but I am more interested in what Mr. Bkent Arinc said about Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökcek, who has occupied the agenda of our country and politics for two days. Why? First of all...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0446par0272	Take care of Mersin City Hall, Mersin.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0445par0273	It's done in Mersin City Hall, and that's what we want, so let's do it. Mr. Arinc says...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0446par0275	Hoist City Hall...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0445par0276	So, e, that's great... so you're just saying, Metiner, my brother, do you have the government, or do you have the Ministry of Internal Affairs, or do you have the inspector, and that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0446par0277	The courts are doing their thing, mind your own business.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0447par0278	Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0445par0279	Right now, this is a re-explained December 17th for me, for Turkey. Deputy Prime Minister of the government, I thank Mr. Arinc, the government's spokesman, and I thank one of your government. I've thanked Ali Babacan, who wasn't involved in this corruption, theft, and Mehmet Simsek, as I thanked him then, now I thank Mr. Bkent Arinc, who, as everyone knows, brought up an incident as Deputy Prime Minister. You know when you say parallels and stuff like that, you know, the terrorist organization, and, uh, he said, "Sister, what are you talking about?" You got your kids to study there, where you're at, I don't know, where you're at -- I don't want to tell you -- you sold Ankara a parcel. What does it actually say in the legal sense? He says: "You have committed crimes under Law 3628. You have committed crimes within the scope of Law 3628, not even under the permission of the Minister of Interior, the state's attorney must start investigations, immediately, to Melih Gökçek and to the second degree, to determine your relatives' assets, especially Osman, what, what, his son, what, how many years do you get, how many years do you get, how many years do you get, how many wages, how many years do you get, how many dollars you get, how many years you get, how many years you get, how many dollars you get, how many years you get, how many dollars you get, how many years you get, how many dollars, how many years you get? Sir, explain to me what your assets are. He'll say, it's that simple. Come, explain, answer. If you've won with your winnings, that's a blessing. According to the 3628 Law, the declaration of goods is a crime in question according to the Law on Bribery and Anti-Corruption. There's no need for the Home Office to assign an investigator. If the Home Secretary is to do his duty, she must immediately remove Melih Gökçek. For the sake of the investigation. It's the Deputy Prime Minister, brother. That's the Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0448par0280	He's talking about you, too.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0445par0281	Let him do what he says about me, and let him do it now. That's the whole point, we want the law, let the law work, people. Turkey will either be a state of law or not, and you will decide that. Therefore, this is not such an isolated incident, nor is it an internal matter for AKP. No, friend, what kind of politics? Sir, it's a matter of the country... for me to work within the party... etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. It's been 20 years, this man runs this great city, says he sells parcels of land, Ankara's land, the nation's property. Therefore, this must be answered. Where? He's on independent jurisdiction. You covered it up here about the ministers. And I want to thank those 48 people. I thank the 48 of you who say, "Let him go, let him go, and let him answer to the judgment." Therefore, this is not a simple matter to be covered up. It's probably my personal opinion that Bulent Arinc has made a statement that suggests that an account should be held during that December 17th-25th period -- one of the 48 people who voted to go to the Supreme Court. Therefore, I would like to express my strong, personal opinion... because Bulent Arinc is a clean man, and I'll tell you that. Like he said, like glass. I'm saying he's not a man who has anything to do with corruption, theft, suspicion, maple business. So I say, "Melih, answer to the thunder." He says, "You must answer too." I say, "Do that call." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0449par0283	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 23rd Amendment of the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends It was included in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Covenant I (I) of General Staff No. 190, and the Council of Law (I), dated 13/12/1983, on the list of staffs listed on the 23-Ekli (2). THE PRODUCTION OF FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICIES Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0450par0295	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0449par0296	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0451par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0449par0298	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0452par0301	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 23 of Law Proposal 705, which is currently in session. I hereby salute the High Council this late at night. With this clause, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is subject to three department heads. So, while the sons of the country are waiting for a job, let's give them two staffs, at least with those 1 more staff, the head of one apartment, three or five young men, while waiting for a job, can we get them a job? And I hope you'll agree, because if the AKP, which didn't think of it in the law of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy just a few years ago, has brought the power today, it's clear there's been a planning error here. On this occasion, I share with you once again who are the children of Anatolia, who have been waiting for the staff, who have been repeatedly expressed during the 13-year AKP rule, many times by concerned ministers, we work, we do, and soon we will solve the problems of some of the parts that have not been solved, even though he has promised to. We need to find a solution to the problem of young people who are seeking minimum wage and subcontractory in many cities of Anatolia, especially our college graduates who are working hard at fighting unemployment. It has been said many times: agriculture engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians want a staff, but when you look at what Mr. Minister of Agriculture has told you today, it has nothing to do with it, it lies, it tells the people: "We asked the Minister of Finance. I asked him here, we asked him for 2,000 staffs." Concerning sections, representatives ask the Ministry of Finance: "How will these 2,000 staffs be distributed?," says the bureaucrats of the Ministry of Finance: "No, there has not been a request for such a staff." Dear lawmakers, by supporting these ministers, you've moved them to a superhuman position. They look down on all of you, so my friends from the AKP have been able to justify them, making them a man of their own free will, and I especially want to share that. You promised subcontractors a cast, a lot of commercials were made in the pool media channels, but no sound, subcontractors are miserable again. On the other hand, subcontractors working on the roads can't get these rights despite a court order, and there's a government that's been refusing to implement court decisions approved by the Supreme Court for nearly four years, and there's a cabinet. There are people in these who don't take country kids for granted, and I especially want to get your attention. On the other hand, as a country where temporary village rangers are working without insurance, fugitives, and without staff, we still carry the shame on all of us. No improvement has been made. Again, many of our young people in their position were unable to recover their victims despite their promises. Public cooks' demands for their rights and admission to the general administrative services class have been ignored. I'm afraid the request for the public employment rights of the fighting veterans has not been heard by your government. The surrogates and nurses, the family health workers, were disappointed. Subsequent imams and proxy muezzins, unfortunately, were removed from the arrangement to be recruited here by the midnight motion; we couldn't understand. I mean, why did the Justice and Development Party government say yes up there, where they took back the promise to give these people a staff? On the other hand, the rights to autonomy and the request to be taken into the general administrative services class of those who worked on the Diyanette have been ignored, so far the solution has not been found. Likewise, temporary and seasonal workers were again ignored, unable to compensate for human victims. Many of these groups and so on have never been heard of repeated requests for staff. But, if the AKP is a supporter... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if he becomes an AKP bureaucrat, his sons have been placed with VIP torpedoes, no tests, no fine staffs, but I don't think they'll eat or eat in peace. I bid you all good night.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0453par0312	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft law proposal of 705 rows on the Ekli (2) list shall be replaced by the 13/12/1983 general staff and shall be added to the section of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy (I). İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0454par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0453par0320	Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the draft text clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, İzmir MP Rahmi Türeli and his friends have submitted a motion to the new clause violation of the engineering and veterinary staff, adding a clause in Article 639 under the Code of Law. Under Article 87 of the Civil Code, new amendment proposals, which are not the subject of the proposed bill or proposal, are not intended to be implemented. The motion is not adopted because it contains changes in a law that has not been adopted in order to regulate the proposed proposal. There are four motions on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705 in the following article shall be changed in the first article of Article 8 of Article 2577, dated 6/1/1982 and shall be changed in the form of the iparation of Article 24/5 of Article 2577, which stipulates to add a new joke. İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the 3rd joke, which is intended to be added to Article 6/1/1982 and to the interim 8th Article 2577, with the framework of Article 24/1/1982 of Law Proposal 705. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Adnan Yılmaz Mehmet Akyürek Recep Special Osman Love Look Muyettin Aksak "3. Fifteen days from the date of the release of this joke, after the release of this joke, the motion to appeal before the release of the Law on the same grounds may be denied, as well as after the release of this joke in fifteen days after the release of the Law, which has been issued in 15 days. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 24th Law Proposal of 705 rows in sight. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay The article has been changed into "in administrative jurisdiction with this law, excluding the current judicial process," which is mentioned in the first verse of Article 8 of the Executive Judiciary Act, dated 24-6/1/1982 and is included in the following joke. "3. The application can be applied again in 15 days from the date of the Law's publication of this joke against decisions rejected during 15 days of legal time before the adoption of Law No. 18/6/2014 and the application to appeal is not applied for." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Order of Public Institutions and the Minister of Law shall be made changes in certain Laws. We propose and provide that the material numbers of other substances be identified according to this, by removing the clause from the text of the law. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0455par0362	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about our motion on the 24th Article of the bag of law. Now, valuable lawmakers, with this clause are being added to the interim Article 8 of Executive Judiciary Law 2577 concerning the period of appeal. Now, here is Law 2577, Law 18/6/2014, with Act 6545, which means a method of special judgment, a method of swift trial in the administrative process. In terms of some cases, it has been said that this urgent judicial procedure will be carried out. Here, of course, a number of procedures have been changed in the usual Adjudication Act. For example, appeals have been shortened; I don't know, the prosecution's right to answer the defendant's defense has been eliminated, so the rights guaranteed in the Constitution have been saved. Now, of course, there, for example, the tender decisions were held under the presumption of the tenders. But the tender ban was kept out of it, so the administration can ban anyone he wants in the tender. Cases related to this have been kept out. In fact, our constitution envisions the quickest and most urgent of all cases. It's a Constitutional decree. So let's wrap up some cases quickly, no matter what other cases. It's an understanding that has no place in the legal state. So it's going to be from us, so let's finish the lawsuits that will help us. We, Republican People's Party MPs, have sued the Constitutional Court for the annulment of Article 6545 for the violation of this law, and this case is not yet over in the Constitutional Court. This change you made in the sixth month of 2014, we have not yet reached the sixth month of 2015, and now you are predicting another change in the same article. So you're immediately bringing in another case filed against the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitution, and you're giving additional appeals due to missing 15 days of appeals. Our friends, who are about to make a motion again, have received the AKP's motion. Here, again, in addition to the circumstances passed by that Commission, in other cases, there is also an additional 15 days of appeals for those who have passed the 15-day appeal period before that law is enforced. There's something to be done around here by this law. Now I can't figure out what to do, but something must be done, something must be done. Here, thieves, scoundrels, impostors will be protected by this. There's no other way, there's no other way. That's not gonna happen. This isn't a law state. On June 18, 2014, you change the law, you take a number of issues into a special trial, and then you give an additional appeal period because the appeals expired. Who are you giving it to? Why are you giving it to me? Who do you benefit from it? No, guys. And you're trying to make the CHP and the MP and the HDP and the honest, honest friends in the AKP. Get out there and explain. So you're making a motion, not even his alibi is credible. Who's losing their rights? It has a purpose to be brought here, it has a hidden purpose, it has a hidden motive, my dear friends. Therefore, because of the breach of the Constitution, we want this clause removed. I mean, he's already in the Constitutional Court for violation of the Constitution. The case isn't over yet. In the meantime, whatever we can achieve, whatever we can miss from the fire, whatever we can do in the meantime, you try to do business with understanding. It's a shame, it's a sin! Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0456par0367	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 24th Law Proposal of 705 rows in sight. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0457par0373	We're rolling, sir. We've drawn the motion. We've drawn the motion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0456par0374	The motion has been withdrawn. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the 3rd joke, which is intended to be added to Article 6/1/1982 and to the interim 8th Article 2577, with the framework of Article 24/1/1982 of Law Proposal 705. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "3. Fifteen days from the date of the release of this joke, after the release of this joke, the motion to appeal before the release of the Law on the same grounds may be denied, as well as after the release of this joke in fifteen days after the release of the Law, which has been issued in 15 days. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0458par0381	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0456par0382	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0459par0384	Motive...
tbmm-2015-03-25sit08spe0456par0385	I'm having it read. Following the amendment to Law No. 6545, Law No. 6545 has been passed by the Court of Appeals of the Court of Appeals in accordance with Article 1806.2014 and the amendment to Law No. 6545, the court has rejected a number of appeals pending a period of 30 days of appeals, although it has been scheduled for an immediate trial. The 15 days of appeals have been denied after the Law No. 6545 has entered into force, and the motion for appeals has been denied on the same grounds, while the motion for appeals has been denied before the day the Law entered into force, but has been granted a second fifteen-day appeal against the decisions submitted after the Law entered into force. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, with the motion adopted just now, the will of the General Assembly on the matter in the motions of Bingol MP İdris Bauken and his friends has been revealed, and therefore there is no way for this motion to be implemented. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0456par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions in Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705 in which the period of study shall be changed as long as the period of study is observed in Article 46 (c) of Article 2547, dated 4/11/1981 and under which Article 46 of the Higher Education Law (c) is changed. İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 25th Law Proposal in the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri The text of Article 46 (c) of the 2547 Higher Education Law, dated 25 - 4/11/1981, has been changed in the following way. "c. In addition to pre-license education, pre-license and licensing programmes, students who are unable to graduate at the end of these periods will receive the anticipated contribution and tuition fee for the period. Students who are registered in the double main branch programme receive a degree period and a contribution to the clause provisions at the end of the year. Students who are unable to graduate from grad schools during their studies set by the Board of Higher Education will also receive a contribution according to these provisions." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special, the Committee of Public Institutions and Institutions to change the Law in certain Laws of Laws and Services. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ of Rahmi Love Bornt Kuşoğlu Haydar Akar Ensar Öğün Article 46 of Higher Education Law 25 - 4/11/1981 has been lifted. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0460par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0456par0028	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0461par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0456par0030	Mehmet Hilal Kaplan is the MP of Kokueli who has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0462par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a motion on the 25th amendment of Law Proposal 705. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, there are a few regulations in this bag of legislation about college students. About this arrangement, I think, I'd like to know how much you valued lawmakers know about it. Look, you've recently taken a very serious precaution when students in the YÖK have been protesting about folding fees. In this regard, as usual, you immediately brought the measures of violence to the point of throwing them out of the dorm. But you've done something beyond that, Mr. Prime Minister, by meeting with the Minister of National Education, you've given up on the part where the Council of Ministers has to fold the fees with an agreement. In 2012, the Justice and Development Party announced that it removed first education and open tuition from universities by the Council of Ministers' decision. In 2014, however, he began to receive the fees and contributions he expressed in 2012 in the CEC Act. In fact, I read exactly from the official newspaper that day: "Student contributions or student fees are paid at the beginning of the period of registration and registration. Those who do not pay their contribution or tuition during the period cannot register or benefit from student rights. Now, even though you've expressed that you've removed this in the first place, the perception you've created in society, the perception you've created on students at this ruling party, the students don't pay any contribution or tuition at all, but in the next year's practice, you've started to increase the allowance by folding, and some of them, perhaps the next article, you've been punished, and we'd like to say that you've been able to remove the allowance as if you're creating an extraordinary situation every time you've given the Council of Ministers. Remember, when you came to power in 2002, you were saying that in the process that you had to come to, we're on the side of the free education program and we're going to do it. At the point you're doing it now, you want to get tuition from the person who's in the semester, second semester, or the person who has to give the same lesson twice? With this practice, the Justice and Development Party has actually been forced to reach into the students' pockets. When the students who advocated moneyless education expressed it as one of the indispensables of democratic university, as always, you began to throw it out of the dorms in the way you used it to protest tuitions in the investigation, pepper gas, the baton, and the way you used it to do it to the students who were protesting mortars in the same way that I was a congressman. In the Republican People's Party's rule, this issue is very clear. I want you to know, dear lawmakers, that in the Republican People's Party's Government, on June 8th, hopefully, when we come to power, there will be no such event as the NGO. Since there are no more NGOs, there will be no student contributions, no student fees. Therefore, the fundamental solution to this issue will be done only at this point. Look, in the last period, when college tuition came in, when the students were protesting, you had to take a step back. In that step, you rescinded the point of removing the contributions you had already agreed to after the meeting with the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. Now, let's hope that the Republican People's Party lifts the RD on this issue, the students' loans, the contributions and tuitions will not be removed on June 8th 2015. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0463par0043	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 25th Law Proposal in the current 705 rows. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends The text of Article 46 (c) of the 2547 Higher Education Law, dated 25 - 4/11/1981, has been changed in the following way. "c. In addition to pre-license education, pre-license and licensing programmes, students who are unable to graduate at the end of these periods will receive the anticipated contribution and tuition fee for the period. Students who are registered in the double main branch programme receive a degree period and a contribution to the clause provisions at the end of the year. Students who are unable to graduate from grad schools during their studies set by the Board of Higher Education will also receive a contribution according to these provisions." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0464par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0463par0053	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0465par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0463par0055	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0466par0058	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 25 of Law Proposal 705. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, first I'd like to say a few words about our discussion with the Minister. We don't have any beef with individuals, and we don't have a problem with that. Greece's actual occupation of Turkish islands is a national issue. Mr. Minister has a final situation. We do not accept this. It is unacceptable for him to try to explain the matter. It is the duty of power to remove foreign forces that create a real state on the land of the country, even for the purpose of its existence. There's an actual situation, we don't accept it, we watch it. It's an insult to the people, it's an insult to the martyrs. I'd like to express it out loud here that we're going to question him. Mr. Secretary, our grandfather, Solomon, couldn't keep the tomb in place. In order to protect Mehmetçik, Süleyman said that the Shah Temple had moved him. Mehmet doesn't exist for protection, but for protection. It is the duty of Mehmetchik to protect the country. We blame the AKP's power by leaving the tomb of our king and following Greece, which created the actual situation on the islands, and we will ask them for the account. According to Article 25, the joke of Article 46 of the Higher Education Law has been changed. The two-year pre-license, including the preparation-class training of the Diploma programmes, is paid for and provided by students who have failed to graduate at the end of these periods. Students who are registered in the double major programmes will receive a degree period and a contribution to those provisions at the end of an additional year." he says. Students who have not graduated from grad school programmes during their studies appointed by the Higher Education Board have or have been given a contribution according to these provisions. In this article, four times the share of the contribution and the payment of the education. Ungraduated students are expected to receive contributions from students registered in the double major programme, students who have not graduated from grad school. It's a complete Napoleonic design, money, money, money." he says. As it is known, the AKP sees politics, education, culture, health, morality, and every spiritual value as a matter of rant and money. President Erdogan's statement on how to manage the state as a company is actually related. All over the world, the social state predicts free health and education, or at least the social state is trying to keep health and education free. In corporate governments, that's not a problem. When the state is seen as a company, it becomes income, profit, interest, and Rant, effective elements in management. The AKP sees the education as a commodity to be bought and sold on the basis of private sector logic. This also contradicts the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which defines education as a free public service, and envisions the preferential education of budgets to ensure this right, and other international documents and UNESCO approach that recognises that right. People who can't get an education today because of lack of money are the biggest loss to that country. It is wrong for students who have failed or who have lost their courses for one reason or another to have to pay to continue their education. Maybe that's why these students won't be able to keep up with the training. A student is not a commodity to make money off. Education is not the process of making goods. It is wrong to view education as a product-making activity. The government is too important to be corporateized, and education is too important to be a means of making money. Even if it's not the means to make money, the government has to pay for the student's education in some way, and it's in position because the qualified brain is going to give back more than it takes. I'd like to underline that in particular. Students are not passive entities and empty patterns that are invested in information. On this occasion, I give all of you the respect that we don't approve of this clause, which is a cost-maker for students and gives them -- if they're well-adjusted -- a certain amount of obligations.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0065	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705 in which the period of study shall be changed as long as the period of study is observed in Article 46 (c) of Article 2547, dated 4/11/1981 and under which Article 46 of the Higher Education Law (c) is changed. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0468par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0073	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0469par0074	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0075	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to make the draft text clearer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 26 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705, which is held in the 26th amendment of Article No. 2547, shall be changed into ▪2014-2015 (2012-2015). İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nursel Aydoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Law and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Law for Education and the Minister of Manisa Free Special (Sec. 26). We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan of Rahmi Love
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0470par0093	We're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0094	The motion for the nationalist movement party has been withdrawn. Does the Commission agree with this motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0471par0096	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0097	Government?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0472par0098	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0099	I'm reading the motive, Mr. Hamzacebi. The motion in question is 25. It was given in order to comply with the regulation of our motion on the matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law number 705, which is held in the 26th amendment of Article No. 2547, shall be changed into ▪2014-2015 (2012-2015). İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0473par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0109	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0474par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0111	I'm reading the reason: A change aims to repair the victims of the past years. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposed bill of 705 rows, dated 10/10/1984, be changed to the "borderal" of Article 27 of Article 35 of the Code, which envisions a change in the First Amendment to the First Amendment of Article 35 of the Code. İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the proposal of the Law to change some 705 rows of Law and Law Orders, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband and Butler MP İsmail Sun and 6 MPs; the Law and the Law Orders of Some Laws and Orders and the Law Order of the Ministry of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of Public Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Law and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education for Education and the Minister of the Law and the Minister of Manisa Free Special (Sec. 27th Law). We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Spectacle of Love Selects the Yellow Vacam Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ali Serindağ İzzet Cetin The following sentences were added to the first part of Article 35 of the Law on the Amendment to the Constitution of Prime Ministerial Service No. 3056, dated 27-10/1984. "The undersecretary, which is employed in this manner, is paid monthly wages, which will result in the officer's monthly coefficient of 56,400 indicators. In January, April, June, July, October and December, one month's salary is paid in bonuses. Other payments to be made and the procedures for implementing this joke are determined by the Council of Ministers." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0475par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0133	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0476par0134	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0135	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to redact on matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the proposed bill of 705 rows, dated 10/10/1984, be changed to the "borderal" of Article 27 of Article 35 of the Code, which envisions a change in the First Amendment to the First Amendment of Article 35 of the Code. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0477par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0145	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0478par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit09spe0467par0147	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to make the text of matter more clear with change. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-03-25sit10spe0467par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 705. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 684, which is ranked in the sixth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be available after this, the decision was made Thursday (March 26th 2015) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, in order to discuss them in turn, at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (March 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
