tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, who asked about World Cancer Day. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on February 4th, Cancer Day. I salute you all. Cancer is a growing health problem throughout the world, causing significant socioeconomic burdens in societies, and loss of material and spirituality among individuals. In addition, a significant portion of cancer has become preventable and has increased the importance of this subject. The World Cancer Day is organised and performed every year to create awareness of cancer on February 4th. While preventing early cancer-related deaths, increasing life rates and quality of life in cancer diagnostic areas is the most important factor. The plan for cancer control is designed to provide psychological support for all factors that affect the emotional, mental, and physical well-being of the patient's relatives. It must not be forgotten that if you need real recording and scanning, there is a very important co-ordination, planning and integrity between these topics that have multiple subtitles in either treatment or palliative care, there is no doubt the presence of an effective national control program at the beginning of the most important events. For this purpose, I'd like to say that we've been following developments in scientific and healthy policies around the world, and we've had experiences from the first phase that we've implemented before, especially between 2013 and 2018, and we're going to implement phase 2, the National Cancer Program. It is not impossible to choose to live in good health. There are also important factors that can be avoided by choosing a healthy diet, increasing physical activity, and reducing alcohol use. The number of cigarettes - affected - reaches 150. It is also possible to prevent skin cancers from being protected from ultraviolet and radiation. Occupation and environmental exposures are highly valued in our country, especially in our plans for the fight against tobacco and obesity, which are very successful. In addition to this programme -- cancer, especially -- we've also started a lot of new programs, such as mapping Turkey's radon, monitoring electromagnetic fields, our health activities. In cancer, early detection is not impossible. In recent years, Turkey has demonstrated important early diagnostic methods, particularly related to cancer. It has made significant advances in breast cancers, cholesterol cancers, and again in service cancers. We aim to increase early diagnostic programmes in cancer with the knowledge of public health workers and policymakers. We've reached that goal as well. In recent years, we have increased the number of centers of our cancer early diagnosis, screening and education centers, such as the "KETEM" for short. We have increased this number, which was originally 126, by opening 40 new Ketimem centers today. Again, we're also serving 10 mobile units. The scans of breast, service, and cholesterol cancer are free of charge at these centers, with the number of cancer scans both in Turkey and at the first level of faith. (AK PARTI) The 1 46,000 breast cancer screening in 2012 alone rose to 335,000 in 2014. We've almost doubled that. Again, we've increased the cervical scans from 214 to 510,000. Again, a cancer scan has developed from 59,000 to 774 thousand in cholesterol cancers, which is very important. And every district in Turkey, every health clinic, and at the same time...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0002par0022	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0003par0024	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (Islamic Party) who has asked for a statement on the impound of the electricity bill on Cemevs. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have made a promise of discrimination against the houses of our Aleki citizens, which are the places of worship. I salute the General Assembly. Many international binding contracts guarantee everyone's right to freedom of thought, religion or faith under human rights law. Turkey is one of the states that signed these documents. The right to freedom of thought, religion, or faith is one of the main duties of a legal state to create an appropriate environment for the effective protection of all citizens. In this context, the approach of a state to its citizens of different beliefs is also an important indication of how much the rule of rule of law has been practiced. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important rights guaranteed by universal legal documents is the right to set up freedom of worship and a place of worship. However, one of the things that our Alevi citizens are most victimised in the freedom of faith is the obstruction of the right to establish and maintain a place of worship. In Turkey, appeals for the establishment of the Cemevos of our Alevi citizens have been repeatedly rejected by state authorities. The grounds for negative responses are not legal, but political. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we must clearly and clearly understand and repeat: Politicians cannot make decisions regarding the determination of the status of the place of worship. Its primary duty to the governments and politicians who govern the state is to protect the freedom of the faith of citizens and to ensure it by law. In decisions regarding the recognition of the location status, the state must observe its obligations of neutrality, including not taking any religious views. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as we know, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in December 2014 that the request to be exempted from the electricity bill, such as the mosque of its mosques, churches and synagogues, was negatively met by the Turkish courts. The ECHR has decided that the temples are also a temple, so it cannot be discriminated against. The ECHR resolution is important for Turkey to be exposed once that the Alevis are discriminated against on the basis of religion. It has once again been registered that Turkey has violated the 14th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits discrimination, and also its 9th Article, which guarantees freedom of thought, faith and religion. As we have followed, Alevi Foundations and Associations have decided not to pay their electricity bills. However, news has been reported to the media that electricity distributors have attempted to cut electricity and then proceed with executions to prevent electricity from paying the electricity bill. As no regulation has been made regarding the decisions of the ECHR, the government's decision does not concern us." In their form, they have made irresponsible and illegal statements. In accordance with the ECHM resolution, some other municipalities, particularly the municipalities of the Party of Democratic Territories, have made parliamentary decisions that consider the mosques a sanctuary on the part of local governments. As a result, they can also benefit from services offered to municipalities and places of worship. I congratulate you on the relevant decisions of all municipalities who show this sensitivity and fight discrimination. The government must also take urgent steps, taking into account the decision of the ECHR by giving up antidemocratic policies imposed on its houses. It is a legal and moral obligation to provide opportunities for other places of worship at once. It is unacceptable for a secular state and a government representing the state to apply discrimination policies to a religious institution, thus continuing to offend our citizens of Alevi. In this scope, the government must first take serious steps regarding the violations of the right to freedom of faith by the ECHR and implement the necessary legal regulations and administrative practices in order to address the victims of our citizens. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, who wants to talk about the problems of the province.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0006par0044	Is there any trouble at Tripoli?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0005par0045	Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0007par0047	Mr. Secretary, Congressman... Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear MPs, I respectfully salute you and the High Council. Now, we've been talking about Tripoli's problems for over four years. However, our congressman said, "Are there any problems left with our Trabzon?" I'll take notes and leave the result to his discretion. First of all, I want to give you some brief notes on Tripoli: the face measurement of our Tripoli is 4,685 square kilometers, population of 758,237. The expected population in 2023 is 758,130. As of 2013, the migration is 25,195, and the migration is 29.988; net migration minus 4,878, net migration rate minus 6.41. Looking at these figures, Tripoli remains the immigration province, the 24th of the immigration provinces. In terms of employment in Tripoli, 46.6% of the population are employed. For paid employees, the license plate of Tripoli is 61. The daily earnings of paid workers are 47 lira 98 cents. The number of jobs is 15,879. The unemployment rate is 7.4 per cent; it ranks 35 per cent in the county ranking. The electricity consumed per capita is 693 kilowatts among the cities in the area of electricity consumption. In 2014, 84,077 foreign tourists arrived. The number of automobiles falls to 92 cars per thousand in the 50th place among the provinces. In gross taxes paid per person, he pays taxes between the cities at $19 (80) and an average of $2.088 per person. The annual spending rate is 71.80 euros per person, and Turkey is the 11th. The percentage of the fee ratio is 14.85 per cent; it is the third in the province's ranking. In air pollution, 84 per cent is the 18th place among the provinces. It's the 46th place each of which has an investment amount of encouragement. My dear friends, I'm not saying this, but the numbers a newspaper has given in its poll results. This survey is taking too long, and because time is short, I gave it to you in the basics. It's unfortunate that Tripoli doesn't exist in production, and if it doesn't produce in a region, valuable lawmakers, as it is known, there will be populations, migrations, and there will be no wealth. We've invested so much in AKP government and AKP Tripoli MPs, we've invested so much in Trabzon. Every chance we get, they say in the area of voters, I haven't listened to a single conversation here. Now they're listening to me here, and if we're missing something, they'll explain it here. But after Metropolitan Law 6360 in Tripoli province, AKP's mayor won in the 30 March 2014 elections, and Kayseri was the first among the 16 mayors of the city in the survey study, and the president of Tripoli was the most valuable friends in the 16th place. Now, I'm going to give you an example. It snowed in January, and there are still 688 village roads closed from the snow. The Mukhtars aren't valued, the chiefs are coming to the city, they're explaining, they're not, they're not. I'm running out of time and I'm running out of time. None of the promises made at the time of the election have been fulfilled; they have been brought. If they say so, let them come here. I'm telling you now, from the promises, the south freeway? The Potter, Hizirbey, Tabakhane, Esentepe, Gülbahar Hatun neighborhood, the urban transformations of our Kaymaklı neighborhood? Citizens are victims, take his house. He won't take it, he won't give it; I will do it, I will fix it. He says, "No, you can't, you can't, it's an enigma." Where's the Sürmene Pineburnu shipyard? Where's the light rail system? Where's the Boztepe cable car project? Where's the city hospital? Where's the logistical center? Where's the investment island? Where's the second airport track? Where's the mouth and dental hospital? Where's the cyclones ski resort? The dissolution of unemployment? The rescue of our tradesman's execution? In 2014, 2,745 businesses were opened and 4.268 businesses were closed. You know, paying for people who got hurt by the frosting in the nuts? What about the 8% reduction in the tea? None of this has been done, and AKP lawmakers have nothing left to say in Tripoli, and I'm saying it for Tripoli MPs. With all due respect and love, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the lawmakers who entered the system. The first word belongs to Mr. Ozkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0009par0064	Mr. President, thank you. The province of Burdur is an exemplary province of agriculture and livestock, trade, transportation, transport, natural stone, marble, and tourism. Although it creates great value, 186 villages ask for village roads, land roads maintenance and repair, but the private administration budget is failing in services because it is not sufficient. The general budget must immediately transfer funds to Burdur. I demand that the government and the Finance Minister take care of this matter on behalf of the people of Burdur. Also, despite the fact that Karaçal, Duger, Hajis, Halfville, Yazköy, Yazımümlüm, Akyaka, Yassıgüme villages have been taken into the field collection programme, there has not been any sort of gathering, and our villagers are impatiently demanding that this gathering be carried out by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I ask the government, and I thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. The chaos that has been in training for 12 years continues. The stolen questions, irregular tests, formal and private universities, which have been opened like pyrotechnics, without adequate teaching staffs, are lowering the level of education of foundation universities. The 1970s' diplomas sold by money come to memory. In medicine and law, the ECHR has brought its base points limit, and in other majors, including teaching, not seeking base points will bring its inferiority. These are the result of privatisations in education. Qualification exams must be applied. The government was supposed to have removed the fees, the folding fees have reached incredible levels, and the tuitions, including the second course, must be removed immediately and without fail. Student graduates of vocational technical secondary schools are required to give extensions to pre-license programmes for those who have missed the deadline. Thousands of students await this good news. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0012par0074	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mayor. College students have a problem with folding tuition. The addition of folded tuition was organised by the AKP by the amendment to Article 29 of Law 6569 and Article 46 of Higher Education Law 2547. In the four-year chapter, folding tuition is called an additional tuition fee from each course after four years of schooling, in the first four years, in the case of taking three or more classes in the first four years or after the second year at universities. If a lecture is taken for the third time during normal teaching period, a contribution per credit and a tuition fee is taken by 50% more, and a fourth time is taken by a hundred percent more, five or more, it is 300 per cent more. If the school has grown, if a class is taken for the first time, a share of the credit and a percentage more than 100 per cent of the student's fee is taken a second time, 200 per cent more than the third time, 300 per cent more than four or more will be taken 400 per cent. The situation of second students is more severe. We urge the government to be sensitive about this, to make a new arrangement to avoid receiving these high fees from our students. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0015par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, a group of fellow MPs, who I was involved with, used the right to the freedom of opinion and expression given by the Constitution and the Parliamentary Council, to express their own thoughts without insulting anyone, without insulting anyone, described this right as a misbehavior. Rauf Orbay, one of the great commanders of the Inflicted War, is not a court, but a bandit's bed, the root cause of the crisis of conscience in the country. The criticism of the rulings of the Islamic Courts, which he described as an indecency, we will commit it a thousand times, and if it is not, I will return it with the same adjective and the word to Mr. Gök. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0016par0087	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, there has been a fire at a citrus packing plant in Erdemli district of Mersin Province, where three of our citizens have died and six others have been injured. In our country, some of them sleep peacefully in the runaway palace, while some of them, especially the poor, lie down in sheep's sheep and continue to die together. I wish God's mercy to those who have died, and to those who have been wounded. Mr. President, dear friends, the massacre of workers continues in Mersin Metropolitan City. As the workman's slaughter continues, the officers are subjected to heavy mobbing, which is harassment. The closest example of this is that the entire police department has been forced to shave their moustaches. Moustache cutting is a way of torturing fascists in their time. I object to the launch of such an application by the Metropolitan Municipality, and I would like the authorities to immediately seize the case and remind them that this cruel practice must be lifted. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0019par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the rare genetic diseases, Mukopolisaccaridosis, is known as MPS Type 4-A, one in 200,000. 250 children in Turkey are struggling with this disease. The medicine for treating the disease is brought from abroad. MPS patients have been struggling for a long time to get their drugs on the list of drugs to be paid for abroad in the SGC. I demand that the government and the Ministry of Health work harder and harder on this matter. The Purple Roof Women's Shelter Foundation has conducted a study asking if you are conducting a call to 37 public hospitals in Istanbul. Many hospitals say they didn't do it, and they only did it on certain occasions, but in public and in the world, abortions are known to be free by ten weeks, but President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AKP government are persistently conducting...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0020par0101	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0021par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, one thing you won't be surprised to hear is that the government instructs all senior bureaucrats, managers, administrators in your districts to make a house call with your spouse in the evenings, drink tea and officially promote elections and ask the AKP to vote. And take notes where you're going, make a comeback. Of course, the President has put the Constitution on the shelf, and it's not enough, and I think it's good for officers who are not allowed to do politics to do politics, to do politics by disregarding the Constitution. If there's a public prosecutor, Mr. President, I'm calling for an assignment.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0022par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, where is Turkey going? We wake up one morning, and there's been an operation against public officials, especially the police department. One day, we're looking at a couple of prosecutors who had their files taken away from them about an investigation, and then they were replaced, and investigations were launched. The previous evening, a bank with no problems was seized using public power with the logic of the bandit. There's a President, a house festival; he's propaganda ahead of a political party leader every day. That bank's already gone down, it's still behind those operations. We've entered their den, we'll enter it. It points to public officials and part of society. Part of the country has been handed over to the terrorist organization. We're really concerned about the future of our country. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Last year, there was a major fire disaster in the part of the country's paradise corners, and in the corner of our country's paradise in Gökova. Unfortunately, a large area was burned to the ground in this fire disaster. Two thirds of these areas were olive groves, so a large portion of this olive grove belonged to the villagers. Due to the lack of fireplanes, Turkish houses, which have suffered a severe loss due to the lack of firefighters' clothing and fire workers' clothing, should also be compensated for the damage of the crash villagers. Despite several attempts, no work has been done on this subject. I'd like to remind you of that and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Mr. Moustacheoglu...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0026par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Tripoli deputy gave me some information, and I'd like to express the correct forms of that information. Tripoli lacks information on urban transformation; it is because of the urban transformation in Tripoli, the Potter, the Tabakhane, the valley of Zagnos, and other places. Citizens who have been paid for the agreement are paid, and those who do not agree are paid for by the court channel, and this continues. Other than that, at the point of access in Tripoli, large projects include Lawi Boulevard, Erdoğdu, the Ahi Universe, the Opposite-Uðurlu, the Akyaz Project and the Double Tunnel Passage; all of these are projects currently under way, none of which are at all in question. He told me about the big city hospital. The big city hospital is on schedule right now, but it needs 500 to 600 acres. We're still working on it, and that's what we're trying to do...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0027par0126	Thank you, Mr. Moustacheoglu. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0028par0129	Mr. President, today is the anniversary of the fact that secularism has entered our Constitution. On February 5, 1937, the principle of secularism entered our Constitution. Today, we have always been justified in the face of all unjust attacks by those who attacked Ataturk, who tried to make him insignificant and worthless. The Laiklik Principle came forward as an important element in Middle Eastern geography in order to bring Turkey to the level of murky civilization, and was part of our Constitution as a form of governance that the entire world has coveted, as well as a principle. Of course, we, the Republican People's Party, swear to live forever, say once again that we are against all attacks against Ataturk, and that we will not allow those who defame Ataturk, and those who defame the Parliament established by Ataturk, and those who defame Ataturk, and those who build our republic.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0029par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a moment ago, our Tripoli MP friend, told me a few things in answer. I counted 15 articles in my speech, saying, "Where are these?," but only among them are the Potters and Tabakhane, where the urban transformation continues. But I'd like to point out that this thing here isn't completely finished. And there's no progress in when the work will be done, when it will be done. Every word we say about other matters is true, and nothing has been done about them. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0031par0142	Mr. President, three of our citizens were burned to death in a fire at a lemon factory in Erdemli. Two of them are Silifkeli, one of them from the village of Sömek, and one of them from Körenköy, and our other citizen is a citizen from the east. Even in agriculture, this is a concrete indication that there are no measures needed to be taken for labour health and job safety, that people are left to despair and misery in the agriculture sector. I'm going to ask the concerned to focus on that. I wish mercy to the dead.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0030par0144	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0032par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. For 12 years, during AKP rule, Meric, Tunca, Arda are carrying rivers, Edirne is always underwater, and we watch these images every day. Mr. Minister Eroglu, Tunca, Arda, said they'd merge Meric, pass it on to Potterville with a channel, and promised to finish it next year, as if it were a mega-trace channel project. We hope he keeps his promise, and the next year, these floods will prevent our people from becoming victims. These disasters occur, according to the eye, when the waters of the dams on Bulgaria and Greece are dropped, and it appears that the government is not taking precautions. I hope he keeps his word and doesn't leave us the need to answer with a famous Thracian word.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0033par0150	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0034par0153	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, have walked into the mercy of Murat Bulut, Mujahit Ünal and Hope Gönul, our workers, our brothers and sisters, who have lost their lives, and six of our workers have been taken to the hospital by smoke. For those who have died, I ask for mercy from the great God, and my condolences to your family, and to all your righteous people. As the National Party of Action, we share the suffering of the Righteous. And I pray to Almighty God that there will be no more such suffering. Thank you for your promise. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit01spe0035par0157	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For our country, the police force, which has been burdened with very important and difficult responsibilities, has chronical problems that are very serious and urgently awaiting solutions. Police means security of order, safety of security, and peace can only be provided with a high-powered police force, whose morale and belonging are efficient, who do well in their work. 92.31 per cent of Turkish law enforcement officials -- 210.897 people -- are the happy minority of unhappy seniors with no career opportunities, 3.96 per cent -- from the middle class rank of commissioners, 9,055 people, and 3.73 per cent -- 8,513 people -- are the police chiefs. The problems of many trade groups are being brought up through strikes and unions and press releases, and government executives are allowed to take care of themselves, but police officers with more accumulated problems than any of these segments are victims and sad because they do not always have a union to express their problems in patience and expectation. Police College, Police Academy, police schools and police training centres, and the emergence of a complex and irregular structure due to a very high-cost educational system in no country, which, regardless of merit and ability, has uncovered a privileged section of the senior class of police academy graduates, which is favoured and favoured on everything. Indistinct, irregular, and long hours and injustice to the rights of equity are one of the biggest problems of all, when equal work is not paid. Instead of a number of managers who sit at their posts waiting to be ranked, counting days for retirement, ignoring the problems and problems of Turkish law enforcement, taking on the full workload, taking on the full workload, worrying about people's troubles when it comes to it, taking on armed conflicts with criminals and martyrs, one-on-one with each part of the community and making up 90.4 percent of the organization. From the rank of commissioner to the top of the police force, almost everyone has a government vehicle below them, and these tools appear to be a service tool on the document. In each office, two police officers work as drivers one day at a time, and if nearly 6,000 of the 34,000 police in the province of Istanbul alone are employed as drivers, it can be said that this number has indeed reached a frightening extent and is a waste of public resources. The EGM is unable to respond to the needs and expectations of its staff with its current structure and management. Most of the EGM personnel are fed up and frustrated, except for the 5-7 per cent elite part. The law enforcement agency, which is in our nation's service, is of utmost importance for the police to be released from the appearance of people who are working hard under difficult circumstances, who are doing high-risk jobs, who are psychologically corrupt, and who are deserving of it, by giving it to them the quality of a man of law, who inspires confidence and calm to the people, to ensure the peace and order of our nation. In particular, we honor the establishment of a research commission based on the working conditions, the rights of identity, and the issues related to the mobbing and resolution of our Constitution, the 98th Article of our Constitution, and Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish Assembly. [[Slap]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 15) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 16) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] 26) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The grain farming in our country has changed from the tallies, expected in 2012, to about 70 to 80 percent of the crops, due to the harsh and cold weather over the seasons of the winter and the rain that was expected to rain late in the spring months afterwards. These losses put farmers' families in a difficult position financially and spiritually. Our farmers have not been able to harvest the amount of seeds they sow in most areas. Because of rising agricultural input costs in our country, producers are in trouble and cannot pay their debts. With this year's frost and drought crop falling 70 to 80 percent, producers who are unable to get the harvest they expect from grain fall into an economic and social crisis. Grain agriculture is no longer a sustainable and added effort for the farmer. I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and TBM to determine the problems and solutions of farmers' families who support their crops. The extreme cold weather across the world, followed by the drought, has brought an extraordinary decline in the reputations expected in many agricultural products. The expected grain harvest in our country must have dropped by 70 to 80 percent, making diesel and agricultural credit co-ops and the farmer's other loans unpayable. Furthermore, the first two years of pregnant heifers, which were previously purchased for two years without pay and without interest, are up, and will begin to pay this year. Between 6,000 and $8,000 pregnant cows are not able to find buyers for between 3,000 and $3,500. The loss of 50 percent of the value of its livestock has increased the farmer's losses, as the prices of the pregnant heifers have also been cut in half. He borrows only half of his current debts. They also spent money and work to feed their livestock. The low repulsion of grain also dropped hay yield from 40 bales to 2 or 3 bales per acre. The price of 1 ton of hay has increased from 60 to 70 TL to 700-70 TL. As it turns out, the frost and drought have not only affected grain agriculture, but also animalism, and the farmer's reasons for holding on to life have been eliminated. This negative picture triggers the event of migration from village to city. In the coming years, it is important to address the problems of farmers and farmers' families who are sustaining their lives with grain agriculture so that agriculture and animalism can continue and production can be sustainable. 1) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzincan]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 9) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 16) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] In particular, the disabled are shown to make demands and complaints concerning health problems. For this reason, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been known to attend various conventions and workshops, organise seminars and prepare reports, seeking solutions to health care demands for disabled persons. If examples are given to these seminars, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has been conducted by the Department of Apology and Senior Services with participants from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, universities, producers and distributors and disabled civil society organisations at Hacettepe University on 7 December 2011. A series of meetings focused on resolving problems in all matters are being targeted by the Centre for Retarded and Older Services, and the directorate will continue to make initiatives to address problems. From October 15, 16th 2012, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was held a seminar on human rights and disability at public institutions and institutions in the Covenant district of Afyon. In all policies and practices for the disabled in our country, the seminar has been expressed by the Director's Office since 28 October 2009, to encourage the introduction of the "United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled" that links our country. From 26 September 2012 to 8 September 2012, the Turkish Ortez-Prothesis Science Association in Manavgat district of Antalya was held by the National ISPO and supported by various associations and universities and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The National Ortez-Prothesis Congress has proposed solutions to the problems of the disabled regarding health problems of the orthopedic disabled. The department in charge of the disabled in our country has been in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy since 8/6/2011, from 7/7/2005-8/6/2011. "The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled is one of the first countries to sign the Convention on March 30, 2007. Article 25 of the contract titled "Health": "Disciplinary states allow disabled persons to benefit from the highest standard of health available without discrimination based on disability. The entity takes all appropriate measures to enable disabled persons to access gender-sensitive health care, including health-related rehabilitation." It's been said. In the 26th article of the contract, the entity has been dominated by the state's maximum independence, full physical, mental, social and professional skills of the disabled, and that they will take effective measures, especially in order to ensure full participation in all areas of life, to provide comprehensive rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, especially in the field of health, to strengthen and expand current services. In this regard, the problems with medical equipment, tools, and equipment, which our disabled have health and needs, have not been resolved despite the meetings and proposals, despite the reports that have been made. With respect to the detailed investigation of the problems of disabled persons primarily related to health, medical equipment, equipment and access to health care, and the establishment of a research commission under the provisions of the "United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Nations," which has been binding on our country since 28 October 2009, and even the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, despite their work on this subject, why it is not resolved and why its solutions are not being investigated, and the 98th article of our Constitutional Council of the Constitution, and the Articles of the TBMM Council, provided by Article 104 and 105. 7.11.2012 [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Denizli]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] 9) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 10) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Hatay]] [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Army]] [[Antalya]] [[Tekirdağ]] 27) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] 31) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] 33) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Tunceli]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] 39) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Artvin]] [[Ankara]] [[Tunceli]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We begin talks with Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and 20 lawmakers on opening a gene for Energy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yildiz (11/43) on whether the primary Gensoru Convention (11/43) will be on the agenda, claiming that he is covering redevans and service contracts at the Soma mine site, providing the jobs are given to these companies unintended and irregularly. Government? He's in position. I'm not having the motion re-readed because it's already been printed and distributed, and it's been read in the General Assembly's 50th Union of 3/2/2015. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I read the names of the members who have been mentioned: Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Malatya MP Mahmut Mujahit Fındiklı on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bült Kuşoğlu on behalf of the People's Party Group will also speak on behalf of the People's Party. In the first words, I would like to call Councilor Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0036par0016	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion, and I've been sworn in as a client. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, there has been a murder that resulted in the deaths of 301 people in Soma, followed by a murder in Konya Ermenek, while more than 50 of our citizens lost their lives in the mines at the same time, again, many of our workers were injured or injured because there were no necessary measures for business health and job safety in the mines. We're putting all of this aside today, these accidents have actually started to bring up corruption in the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and the Ministry of Energy and Resources has become the first ministry to come to mind when it's called corruption in Turkey. The subject of our youth is very simple. There are two companies in Soma. Soma Liniyets are owned by Turkey's Coal Company, licensed by Turkey's Coal Company. Two companies produce it through redevance and service purchase; one is Imbat AŞ and the other is Soma AŞ. Today I'm putting aside the responsibility of the Department of Energy in those accidents, and we're just going to say the part about corruption, loud and clear. Now, dear lawmakers, the question is very simple here. TKI General Directorate initially employs two companies. It's either redevance or service. Two contracts, one rejection, one service contract. His work with Redevans must be in accordance with the TKI redevance regulations, and his service work must be in accordance with the Law of Contraction. Now, Imbat signed a redevance agreement on fields 1918, 4623 and 4009 on 4/10/2004. Notice that he signs at 4/10, which is 31/12/2015. On 12/4/2006, the Governing Body makes an adaptation of its decision. Again, in 2007, the Governing Body decided to provide additional work for the production of 5m,589 thousand tons of coal. There's nothing wrong so far. There's an extension of the contracts according to the board's decision. However, on 8/10/2013, before the contract expires, the contract, signed on 4/10/2004, has until 31/12/2015, and without the Governing Body's decision, the extension of the contract was extended to 1/10/2028. It is interesting that there was no extension of the Governing Body's decision for the previous job, and it did not involve any extension of those decisions, but this time it was not necessary for the Governing Body to make a decision on a more comprehensive and larger business and to be given a bigger job than the actual job. With this irregular procedure, there is a 13-year extension, 39 million tons of additional coal. Again, the same thing is true in terms of Soma AC. The first addition to the production of 18 million tonnes of coal signed on 8/9/2005 in terms of Soma Inc is 5m 982 thousand tonnes, in accordance with legislation on 30/6/2011. In fact, the stamp tax, it's paid, it's fine. On the second addendum to Soma AŞ, the Governing Body is again being given 2m16,000 tonnes of additional work on 1/3/2012. However, the additional job at the location of Geventepe is in the position of the Mummy, in a place called the Central Underground Lodge. The main job is in Geventepe, which is a very different location, and the license number is 2535. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's another fourth addition here. Until 31/12/2026, without the executive board's ruling on the 8/9/2005 contract issued in 2013, so we're talking about a ten-year extension of 30 million tons of coal. Now, these two are clearly in violation of TKI's redevance regulations and of the Law on Retribution 4734. As the Minister makes his statement, he says that this authority of the Governing Body has been handed over to the General Manager by decision 31/7/2007 and 18/379. However, given the scope of that mandate, Mr. Secretary knows that it doesn't cover what we're saying, and he knows about bureaucrats. In fact, I think that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources... is wrong, according to Mr. Secretary, or according to that understanding. There is so much corruption in this country that with the AKP's votes, there, corruption on December 17th and 25th is being closed, and 4 ministers can be cleared by AKP votes in this parliament. With such an incident, it is possible that the Minister might not care. In a statement to the newspaper, Mr. Secretary says, my dear friends, that it is our primary duty to pursue corruption and corruption. However, there's been a mistake in a tender, there's no standing aside because there's been irregularity, so you should step aside completely. There's no such thing as saying, there's no such thing. My dear friends, in this context, I ask the Minister concrete questions about these corruptions: One: executives in Turkey's Petroleum Association are informed that they are transferring money to associations and foundations. In the last ten years, how much money has TPAO transferred to companies under the name,,,,,,,,,,,,,,? Was $3m spent on the World Energy Congress held at the Russian Federation, at the event of the founding year of TPAO in the 60th year? How much money has been transferred to TPAO conventions in the last five years? Again, after collecting data in the Black Sea and Mediterranean Sea for ten years, after opening nearly 10 dry wells, the seismic ship was unable to achieve any success, while for $250 million, Barbaros had taken Farzan Pasha but failed to operate. However, while no major oil company in the world has been saving such a savings, has the senior prime minister of TPAO (now President Recep Tayyip Erdogan) damaged the national company TPAO (TPAO) by manipulating him with false information? What, though, is the purpose of TPAO management in TPAO's 60th year event to build a $3 billion platform with false, baseless information, without an economic discovery in the seas? What is the amount of expenses to be made in the Black Sea to develop the Akca husband's field, known as a limited reservoir, as if its reserves were unknown? Did the TPAO administration take out a loan from banks for a production site in Total, one of the foreign companies operating in Azerbaijan at a time when the oil price was 100 dollars? Given that the price of oil is going to be lower in the coming months, who is going to pay for this damage to TPAO, given that the dollar is becoming increasingly trendy? Why was the production site in Azerbaijan abandoned 15 years ago, with a thousand promises from Kazakhstan? Why was TPAO withdrew from Libya, which was invested at $300 million? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] TPAO raises its search budget by 15 times, while the production is in place. Why is this non-profit relationship not calculated? Is the privatisation of TPAO opening up? It's about TPAO, Mr. Secretary, I have too many allegations of corruption. I can give you these, too, these are proven claims. Today at TPAO, there are actually around 71 companies, members of the board of directors. Who among these board members are getting paid? Why is he taking it without any activity? I want you to explain these. I can give it to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I request the approval of our motion. In fact, this Minister of Energy has exhausted this House, my friends, and the AKP Group has exhausted us.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0037par0035	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0036par0036	So there's only one thing to do, and it's actually the right way for him to resign. At least we won't be tired. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0037par0039	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0038par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following the CHP Group's motion to open a gene for Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as you know, in December 9th of the year that we left behind, we discussed the motion of our group to ask about Mr. Taner Star. We gave reason to the killings of miners in Soma and Ermenek, that they were handed over to the futhrat, instead of technological equipment, which was kept away from real control, under the name of privatisation. We also pointed out the Minister of Energy as the number one person responsible for the mass killings in Soma. Unfortunately, however, as always, our motion was rejected and not processed as a result of the hands that rose from the AKP ranks. The reason for this motion on the same minister, given less than two months later, is that the firms who committed the mining murders were protected and protected, and the work given to them was unintended and irregular. I think it would be more useful to look at how such practices have actually been routine in the past two years, even how a dirty mechanism has been implemented in order to ensure the continuation of AKP power. Two important recommendations were given by their mentors shortly after the AKP came to power. If the AKP's government is to extend its life span, it must quickly implement two things. One of those recommendations was to have a strong media that gave unconditional support to the AKP, directed public opinion, and created a perception operation. The second and most important advice was to bring out a new bourgeois by the state's hand, which would not give AKP financial trouble, which would feed the pool media, which would cover party expenses. The AKP government, which has been set to carry out these heated recommendations by its mentors, has not hesitated to use its rant and looting experience to the full, in the municipalities in which it previously was in power, especially in Istanbul. Dear MPs, remember the propaganda period in the 2007 general elections. Remember those glorious TOKI openings, key-distribution ceremonies, how the prime minister's office in private, and most of the state's resources were mobilised for AKP election rallies. As a result of the key delivery mechanisms and a finely calculated plan at the time, the first fruit of the political rate produced by the TOKI hand was collected in the 2007 elections. Of course, TOKI could not have been just a mechanism for producing political rants for the AKP's court, nor could it. In addition to the political rank created by the Turkish Cypriot, which is used as a chicken that lays golden eggs, there was also an economic Rant, which I think will be able to express clearly the size of this rant today, but it will be possible in the apocalypse. I also benefit from reminding you that the contractors of the Istanbul skyline, which everyone complains about being corrupted these days, are largely in debt to their collections from the TOKI and Turkish Coal Company. Dear lawmakers, I have just stated that a new bourgeois by state has been recommended by their mentors to provide the AKP with financial problems, to feed the pool media, to cover the party expenses. One of the two major institutions used by the AKP's government for economic and political gain is TOKI, the other one is the Turkish Coal Company. These two institutions have been used to fund AKP politics, to re-create their power, as well as to provide capital for their subsidiary firms and their secret partners. Dear friends, but aside from the secret partners, isn't there a price or a price for these favors to the contractors? Of course I did. When the time and place were due, they had to send the price to a pool or a foundation or an address to a bedroom. Some of these collections were being personal, while a significant part of them were being hoarded to finance AKP politics. So the water stopped flowing, there was no principle, there was no law, everything was rapidly losing altitude, the fish smelled all over again. In the early years of AKP power, the honorable MPs were laid the foundations of the looting and Talan-based order in order to create their own supporting capital. In those years, I quote Mr. Taner Yıldız, who is not yet Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, at the General Assembly of May 26, 2004, where he strongly advocated the redevance system: our conduct has failed to show the expected development due to the difficult circumstances. The bureaucratic procedures are too much, the legislation is too much; we're minimizing them. Of course, we have seen that the negatives stemming from the mining legislation, particularly the parts that predict the cancellations, affect the entrepreneurial spirit of the private sector, and we depend on the difficult conditions for the cancellations of the license. As you can see from his remarks at the time, Mr. Taner Yildiz is very particular and very sensitive about the private sector's entrepreneurial spirit. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary won't be hearing the same sensitivity about occupational safety and labor health, which was only victims of 335 mining murders in 2014. As you know, on May 13, 2014, 301 workers were sent to die knowingly in the mining disaster of Soma. All the work that's been done will not have been learned from the killings that you've sacrificed 34 other miners from that date to today. You don't give up everything, we know every truth, and you don't even feel the need to discuss the reasons for these murders with the experts. If you'll be so kind as to listen to experts and scientists, you'll understand that the redevans system that bypasses state institutions and transfers mines to foreign capital and private sectors is the primary responsibility for the killings in the mines. Dear MPs, Mr. Taner, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, I'm not surprised that one of the firms in which Mr. Taner Star's motion for the opening of his gene is the co-host of the miner's murder in Soma. We remember the Minister visiting that mine that was a grave for 301 miners nine months before the massacre and making eulogies as if it were yesterday. I'm telling you exactly what Mr. Minister, who was greeted at the death mine by his boss, said: Our priorities for occupational health and labour safety are in the first place. Accidents that upset us deeply, we need to get away from them. As we spent money on security systems, we found that our fellow workers' efficiency increased. We need to keep them from worrying. We are here today in Soma, and we have come to an environment where coal is more mechanized and more automated. Hopefully, we'll be able to get the mining in Turkey to take its place quickly. He said, "Mr. Minister." Yes, we have been given alms that I say the Minister's intentions or efforts in his last sentence have not yet been fulfilled because the Minister's wish, "I hope we can get the mining in Turkey this way quickly" is that if it happens, no one of the miners will survive. By the way, before I forget, during his visit, Mr. Secretary had not failed to see the poster of Recep Erdogan who had been hanged at the mine and to praise Mr. Erdogan. Dear MPs, the summary of the irregularities brought to the motion for the geneorization is: There are two firms in the Soma mining site where the massacre took place, where TKI General Directorate has signed a contract. These are Imbat Asş and Soma Asş, who work with redevance and service contracts. The first contract with İmbat AŞ on 04/10/2004 was authorized until 31/12/2015. In 2006, the Governing Body's decision to adapt and provide additional work in 2007 was also decided by the Governing Body. However, on 8/10/2013, an additional protocol is under way before the deadline and without the decision of the Governing Body, and the contract period is extended for 13 more years until 1/10/2028. On 8/9/2005, the first contract with Soma Inc., another firm, is held in accordance with the legislation and until 31/12/2016. At intervals, additional jobs in different locations are based on decision-making by the Governing Body due to lack of reserves. After all, the contract period is extended until 31/12/2026 on 8/10/2013 without the Governing Body's decision. Although the contract extensions with both firms have been a mystery on an unfinished date and have not yet been completed, these agreements without the board's ruling constitute a public discrepancy with the Rödössance Application Direction. I'm reading the 13th article of the Rödössation Application Direction: the area that is technically not considered technically available and is not economically economically available can be given as additional jobs to businesses in the fight without demand for additional minimum production in the field, in terms of the underground operation. The manager's request that the reserve in the area of the contract will not be sufficient during the contract, and if this request is confirmed by TKI, some of the areas of the business field that can be applied and available in terms of subsidiary, in terms of the actual working paces and investments of the operator, in terms of the subterranean operation, and in exchange for the construction of the subsidiary of the subsidiary of the subsidiary, and in exchange for the construction of the subsidiary of the subsidiary of the subsidiary, and in exchange for the amount of the contract, can be applied as an additional minimum production of the business. In either case, conditions are regulated by additional protocol to the contract, and protocol provisions are followed by the completion of the necessary procedures following the approval of the TKI Governing Body. The additional jobs do not change the time of the main contract." It's called. When the last joke carefully examines the provisions, it is clear that the approval of the Governing Body is essential in each case. Thus, the procedure is against the law and is irregular. As a result of these apparent transactions, $4 billion was clearly left behind and corrupted by both companies. Dear lawmakers, despite the Court's reports, we find it very difficult to understand why the Soma Ash was so protected and protected by the Minister in particular. See, my dear friends, what the Court reports have said about Soma Ash: there is a section of Soma AŞ in the report of the Court's auditors who studied the period 2013 of the Ege Lines Management Directorate. According to the report, the Soma Ash, who sold all the coal he produced in the redevans system to the public, was stressed that he was selling low-calorie coal. According to the contract, coal under 1,800 kilocaloris per kilo should be rejected and not taken. In addition, 1 million 549 thousand 311 tons of coal was washed from the coal produced by Soma Inc, 780,520 tons of lost coal, and only 768,791 tonnes of clean coal were obtained from the remaining part. So about half of the coal that was bought as it came out of the furnaces was thrown out because it didn't do any good. The firm was only short $3.8 million because it produced low-calorie coal. In other words, Soma is paid $145.5 million instead of $149.3 million. However, there are many more losses from the Ege Lines Business Administration due to the loss of operations and the shortage of sellable coals. In this report, I hereby condemn the mindset that it has clearly damaged the public, that it has sold stones and land instead of coal, that it still holds, protects, protects, and protects this company. He says it would be best for the minister to resign immediately, who has been advised to open a gene for him less than two months from now, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0039par0073	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0040par0077	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Party of Actions about Mr. Taner Yıldız, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen, as I begin my words, I would like to start here first by congratulating Mr. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, for the fact that all this is rock-solid in the face of all these allegations. But he'd crack if he were a stone, so to speak, and anyone else would probably do harakiri, but your Minister doesn't move a muscle in the face of all the incidents and allegations. In the past few months, Mr. Minister has been asked to resign; when asked to resign, he said he would ask the Prime Minister and consult. I ask you, did he or did he not present his resignation to the Prime Minister? Because resignation is not a process to be allowed, it's a unilateral declaration of will. Did he show that will? Besides, there's such a big, grave event going on in the field of the Ministry of Energy and Resources in particular, that let's just assume that the Minister has no responsibility or failure, that it really requires so much silence and endurance, which is a separate skill. There are certain incidents that require the resignation of a minister, even by himself. Now, the power outages are increasing. Why are the power outages increasing, dear friends? Because electricity companies, companies, privatized companies, and privatized companies don't invest anymore, and a lot of places suffer from electrocution, including peasants, farmers. And you've made the government the collector of power companies. You've made innocent citizens pay for an electrical leak. Mining licenses: Here, as the Mining Law was discussed, came to light. The 1.224 application for a license is likely awaiting the approval of the Prime Minister of the period, the current President, due to the Prime Minister's generalisation. And with that law, they gave the Minister authority. Actually, I think they want to bypass the Prime Minister. I hope he won't do it by consulting with the President, Mr. Secretary, but our concern is that it will. Now, the matter of the geneorization contains remarkable allegations. Mr. Secretary here, technically, would have to provide this information in detail. The allegations are grave and convincing. Now, when we look at the sides, the Department of Energy and Turkish Coal Corporations and the Imbat and Soma Coal Corporations of Soma (Imbat and Soma Coal Corporations) are on the side of the issue, and there are actually a lot of mining businesses -- there are a number of relations between the government -- that have brought up some corruption and irregularities in the running of the mines. The Department of Energy and Natural Resources and the Turkish Coal Company clearly favoured Imbat and Soma Asş in Soma. In the production numbers of these companies, in their balance sheets, it's possible to see that favor. As a matter of fact, In 2005, Soma Coal Company received $12.7 million in revenues, while in 2013, $310 million was a very remarkable, exaggerated number, making $182m in revenues in the first six months of 2014. In 2005, Imbat AŞ received 53 million liras, while in 2013 it reached 342 million liras, and in the first six months of 2014 it received 254 million dollars in revenues. These figures are based on the fact that the Turkish Coal Company, in our view, gives us an illegal, illegal extension and additional employment, and, of course, there's also a guarantee of purchase, and we think it's the result. In both companies, there have been extraordinary increased gains over the years. Dear friends, you can't explain this with efficiency, rational work, technical and technology investments. And that's not the case with the Eynez Mining Pit where the accident took place. The irregularities in the mining contract of the mines are seen in extensions of the contract and additional jobs. Of course, of course, giving out additional jobs... I mean, we're not saying that all operations are irregular, we're saying that certain procedures are irregular, there are regulations. Turkey's Coal Corporations General Directorate, Imbat and Soma are signing contracts with coal companies. Later, Turkey's Coal Company extends its contract time by thirteen years, ten years, without a decision from the Governing Body, in violation of the legislation, before it expires. And the sum of these jobs is 4 billion dollars, and if you hit 4 quadrillion dollars with the old money, you're going to get $2 billion. And according to the readings, it's been detected four times. TKI and İmbat are registered at As Soma. 1918, 4623, 4900. He is signing a redevans contract for lulu minefields from October 4, 2004 to December 31st, 2015. Based on April 12, 2006, the Governing Body's Decision 16/154 is being adapted, and secondly on 26 September 2007, the Governing Body's Decision 25/466 and 5m589 thousand tons of additional work are being given. These contracts have no extensions, only additional jobs. However, on October 8, 2013, the term of the contract was extended until October 1, 2028, with an improper additional protocol without the decision of the Governing Body. With the decision of the Governing Body for the previous job being made and there is no extension of those decisions, the decision of the Governing Body is quite remarkable that there is no extension and that there is no greater work. This 13-year extension calculates at least 39 million tons of additional coal production. Soma is registered to 1841-2406. Regarding the production of 18 million tonnes of coal signed on 8 September 2005, additional 5m 982,000 tonnes of employment contract was signed in accordance with legislation, and the stamp tax was cut. Is that relevant? Fair enough. Second, on 1 March 2012, the Governing Body Decision 9/80 was given 2m 136 thousand tons of additional work. There are irregularities here. The additional work covers another mining site. The additional work, originally held at the Geventepe location, is also called the Central Underground Lodge, located in the position of the Mummy. The real work is in Geventepe, and the additional work is in Central Mummy, a very different place, and the license number is 2535. The additional reason for the contract of employment is that the contract does not have the amount of reserves to cover the total amount of production promised. The third addition to the same contract was made on November 8, 2012 by the Governing Body Decision 35/429, and the September 8, 2005, term for the import of the reserve at the Lightfield -- 944 -- until 31/12/2016 -- to the Soma Coal Company. The light field is a separate area and has about 35 million tons of reserve. As we look at the progress of contracts made with Soma Coal Company, the business area, which began with the position of Geventepe, has been expanded to the Mummy position, then to the Light position. These matters are against the law. Fourthly, an additional protocol dated 8/10/2013 extended the period of the September 8, 2005 contract to 31 December 2026 without the Governing Body's Decision. With this ten-year extension, Soma Charcoal is granted the right to produce 30 million tons of coal. Now, when we look at Article 24 of the Public Contracts Act, it is estimated that there may be a 20 per cent increase in additional business increases. However, the contract signed between TKI and the firm is against it. Again, Article 13 of the TİKİ's Rödöss Appal Direction 13 is ruled that if the manager's request is seen as appropriate by Tİ, the operating area may be given to the operator on the basis of the main contract, and further protocol provisions to be carried out within this scope will be carried out after the approval of the Tİ Board of Directors. The same clause also states that additional jobs cannot change the main contract period. I mean, these contracts, these extensions, they're against our legislation. The mandate for the extension is alleged to have been handed over to the General Manager on July 31st, 2007, with Decision 18/379. This is not a clear and clear situation, the subject is the flu, and it is simply referred to a number of bequests, which have not been specified on what issues they have been authorized in. It is also unknown to us, of course, what other jobs were used for this period of authority, which was said to have been done in 2007. As a result of these illegal transactions, it is considered unfair profits for these companies, in order to avoid the obligation to tender. Dear friends, this is a very important and grave example. Except, of course, not just one example. The Justice Development Party's government has a special, informal, non-profit relationship with some of its mining companies. We've said this several times again from this platform, on various platforms. I mean, there are so many signs now that it's become clear, but I'm amazed at the recklessness of the government and the Department of Energy, it's impossible not to be surprised. Now, the miners are being dragged to AKP's meetings in Soma. All signs are forced. They're being given rations, service vehicles, gas, and wages. The company directs working mining workers to the AKP. If the AKP does not win, you will be out of a job. The workers are clearly threatened at a rally held before the election by company managers and an AKP Manisa MP. Some of the senior executives of this company are members of the municipal council, part of party administrations in the past period, as well as the announcements of people seeking employment in the mine with open cell phone messages to the AKP district agencies are also reported to the press, which is public record. Most of the workers taken into the mines at Soma Coal Company were also members of the AKP. It's not a warning, it's a nemesis. If you don't vote for us, they'll close the mine, and you'll be out of a job. They've been threatened. However, Somalı mine workers are unemployed. On December 1st, 2,831 mining workers were fired, the mines were closed, no sound or breath from the Ministry of Energy. It's a rotten sense of governance, dear friends. This understanding of governance is a rotten idea of governance. So, on May 2nd, the head of the Ministry's audit services, with the Minister's approval, he is brought to the Board of Directors of the TKIEST, so he is appointed manager of an institution in which he has to supervise. If he's both a controller and a manager, it's inevitable that things will get messy there, that relationships will get dirty and that order will rot. Unfortunately, that's one of the things the Justice Development Party doesn't understand during all these years of power. There are other examples. Lawmakers, mayors, relatives, spouses and friends of the AKP, who had nothing to do with mining, are sent abroad on a trip, taken on a trip, with information about mining, to improve etiquette. In Ramadan, Mr. Energy Minister, who launched a political show with mining workers in the ground, is trying to pin the responsibility on someone else while our miners lose their lives in Soma. You're with the workers on the Inftar show, and you're not with them when 2,831 workers are fired. What's going to happen to these workers? Where are you going to hire? It's been two months, but we're not going to leave him hungry. What have you done, what do you intend to do? Our somese citizens, our tradesman, miners, expect immediate security measures to be taken and opened to run the mines, so clear and clear. I'm afraid I've run out of time for that in the past, and I'm afraid I can't say -- 804 workers didn't get their two months, they didn't get their compensation. Again, on December 1st, what does the government do about the compensation of the workers who were fired? How will these compensations be paid, Mr. Secretary, what are you doing about it? I mean, you don't have any responsibilities. Do you always work for authority? Don't you have any responsibility? You'll use authority, but not when it comes to your question. When an accident happens, it's on the outside. I swear, it's on the outside of your power. This isn't a proper futrate either. Of course, the citizens reacted to the Prime Minister and then survived at the grocery store. That market was the market of the congregation you call parallel. And after Soma's reaction, the Justice Development Party wiped out Soma. The construction of the state hospital has stopped, the organised industrial area has stopped, the environmental work has been suspended, the faculty has been stuck in the Ministry of National Education barrier, you've privatised the thermal plant, the company and the citizen face-to-face, and you've had the citizens beaten and handcuffed. After that...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0041par0105	They've already kicked.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0040par0106	Yeah, you kicked the citizen, too. There's a lot to say. I don't even know what the collections are. There was a Galatasaray-Fenerbahçe match on August 25th, and then, I don't know... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Atletico Madrid game, Chelsea-Basiktas-Fenerbahçe... and the donations and donations collected from them are unknown. In order to express our other views at the earliest opportunity, I would like to say that we will vote in favor of this gene, all of you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0042par0113	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Malatya MP Mahmut Mujahit Nutklı. Here you go, Mr. Nuts.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0117	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the opinion of the AK PARTY Group on the motion of the Republican People's Party to make the motion. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to share my personal opinion on the nature of the gene, the context, the meaning of the gene. The gene is not a subject that criticises a party's political strategy, energy strategy, which demonstrates other parties' strategies; its gene contains a claim about ministers in the administration, their practices, their personalities, their dignity, and their transactions. Thus, when speaking on a gene question, you need to take a serious look at the title of the genome at first and ultimately its content. This motion by the Republican People's Party... I would very much like to wish that there were people in the Republican People's Party who understood mining and came from the business world, and I wish that those who gave this motion had first had given these friends enough information from them, that they would not have experienced these allegations and these contradictions today and would not have been embarrassed. Now...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0044par0122	What shame?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0123	I'll explain that. The claim is that Taner Yildiz wrote this in the title, which allowed these firms to be given free and illegal work, and said that Taner Yildiz did it. I'm going to read it now. The agreements made with these two companies initially were in accordance with the legislation, with non-problem agreements, and were in accordance with the procedure.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0045par0125	I told him, I told him.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0126	I'll be there. Two: the issue of additional work. TKI also argues that additional work has been given in accordance with legislation on 30/6/2011, and that it has been a redevance business since the beginning and that it does not belong to the Public Contraction Agency, and that it returns in the duration extension, and why is it not necessary for the Public Retribution Agency?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0045par0128	Why isn't he in line with the Redevans directive?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0129	I'll come, 13th article, and I'll come to that. Now, you're reading the title, and there's a serious claim that you're reading, and there's a lot of conflicting events in it, and people are confused. So, if I were you, I'd sit down and prepare this motion with very valuable people inside you who understand mining well.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0046par0131	Best prepared, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0132	Calm down, calm down, just listen. It's about the struggles of a political opposition that can't handle it, can't fight it, can't show a political presence.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0047par0134	301 people are dead. What entity are you talking about? 301 people died there. What politics are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0048par0135	301 people are dead, you admit it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0136	I'll take your bet. I don't believe in the content of this gene, I'm getting into other things.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0048par0137	Tell me how you gave it away without bidding.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0049par0138	Answer mine, the allegations.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0139	Now, look, guys, here's the thing: In 1985, the inspectors did a review of the Soma field. Their report says that the government has territory in the Soma field. There are firms within the government's territory. Therefore, in order to run a quality business, add the furnaces of these firms to the inside of the state. Thereupon TKI talks to these two companies and sits down with these two companies and deals with them. They join the coal fields in TİKI. In return, they sign a contract on redevans and bilateral agreements, including the men's facilities. So, is this being investigated? Yes, it's being examined, without bidding. In 2004 and 2005, these agreements were signed, and according to the redevance special legal provisions, collusion, refusal redevance contracts are signed. Your firms...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0048par0140	How can there be such a law when there is Law 4734? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0141	Yeah, calm down, come talk to me. Don't beat around the bush. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0048par0142	Why?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0143	Don't say a word, sit down and listen, we've listened to you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0048par0144	We're listening, you're saying the wrong thing. You're misinformation all these people.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0145	You do it every time.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0050par0146	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0147	No matter what commission you go to, no matter where you go, you do all sorts of things by crossing the boundaries of decency.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0051par0148	You don't get to dictate my manners, you get to know your place! This is the Clave.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0149	You may have a personal issue with Taner Yıldız, but this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0052par0150	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0151	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You can't generalize that personal grudge here.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0053par0152	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0153	Yeah. He did the same thing on the commission.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0053par0154	Of course I will. I'm defending the rights of the people.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0155	You can't.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0053par0156	I'm not defending the rights of the mining mafia.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0157	Now, it's said he's under contract, non-rejectional, non-rejectional. The Department of Energy's Inspection Board is looking into this, and the Inspection Board says there's no irregularities here. IT is for the benefit of the TKI.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0158	When does it say?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0159	The State Control Board is reviewing it, and he agrees.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0160	Tell me when you said that.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0161	That's not enough, it's being applied to the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0162	He's in 2009.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0163	The Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office also says that there is the interest of TİKÝ, there is the interest of the state, there is no irregularity.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0164	When does it say, Mr. Speaker, tell me the date, the date!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0165	I'll be there, I'll be there, I'll be there.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0166	Tell me your date, dear, on this date. Say it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0167	I'll be there, and I'll be there after 2013.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0168	My brother's in history. Say that.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0169	Be patient, be patient.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0170	Yeah, why don't you tell me your date?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0171	Now, it's being applied to the Public Promotion Agency. The Public Contractorship says there's no contract here, there's a bilateral agreement here. Therefore, outside the Public Contract Agency, it is subject to special provisions and is subject to mutual agreement. In 2006, the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office says it is in the interest of the state, in which this contract is in accordance with the law.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0172	That's what I said in 2006.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0055par0173	That's not true!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0174	According to the text of the Constitutional Court, published in the Official Gazette, 25/7/2014, the rejection agreements are said not to violate the Constitutional principle of equality. Now, in the tenders, in the contracts, in all institutions and institutions, the inspectors, the judges, the prosecutors, the Constitutional Court, they all say: "There's no problem in this. What's the problem? That...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0175	Sing 8/10/2013!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0176	Just hear me out. I'm coming, I'm coming, be patient.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0177	Yeah, stop yammering! Why don't you tell me? You've been going on and on about it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0178	Be patient, be patient. You've been traveling...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0179	Sing 8/10/2013!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0180	You shut up, you shut up, listen, don't bother.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0181	Tell me about 8/10/2013.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0182	Now, it's coming to 2013, and in 2013 the claim is that the general manager has extended it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0183	Yeah, it's not under your jurisdiction.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0184	How can he extend with that authority? Now, the Chief Inspector of the Board of Investigation is presenting a report to the director of the General Assembly on the task of providing them to the Board of Directors, on the basis of their proposals, to provide them with the intensity of things and the ability to carry out their frameworks more quickly, and this report is entered into the Governing Body, which is the only tasting of which powers are being used by the Governing Body, and this comes out of the Governing Body.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0185	Count it, count it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0186	In this Governing Body, page three, the approval of the terms of the contracts, the extension of the extension, is given to the chairman's authority on this Governing Body.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0054par0187	How does he give it to you? It's on the Board of Directors.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0188	Therefore, the general manager gives the extension without a ruling from the Governing Body. You claim that it is false and wrong, and the chairman used the authority vested by the Governing Body. Two, there's another issue here: new fields and new reserve spaces were given along with this extension. 30 million tons, and from there it comes to a reckoning of $4 billion. There's no such thing here, where did you come up with 30 million tons? It's all made up.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0056par0190	Well, the Court did, where do we make it up?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0191	Thus, the work is only a matter of extension. The fact is that it is related to the extension of time, the company is asking for an extension of its time to use credit opportunities for its new investments, to get loans from international loan companies. There are no new reserve areas in this extension, and there are no new places for this extension that are irregularly assigned.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0057par0192	Yes, there is, isn't there?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0193	...there are no new fields in this extension. It's all very clear and clear. I repeat, I would hope that the Republican People's Party would sit down with its own mining engineers and friends who know how to...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0195	Sir, I'm a mining engineer, what are you, what's your profession, what's your profession?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0196	... If they'd worked on it...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0197	I'm a mining engineer, what's your profession? I'm a lawyer and a mining engineer. You don't even know what you're reading.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0198	... He wouldn't be here.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0199	You come talk about 2013. Tell me if there's a decision from the Governing Body in 2013.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0059par0200	He has no idea.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0201	I'd like to ask you now, sir, about Taner Star.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0202	What do you do for a living? What do you know about mining?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0203	Don't yell at me. Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0060par0204	Please remain calm, please listen calmly.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0205	What do you know about mining?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0206	Don't shout, be decent!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0207	You've been insulting me all morning!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0043par0208	Don't shout, be decent! You can't interfere with the bench like that.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0209	What do you do for a living?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0061par0210	Please continue.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0058par0211	I'm a miner. He's been insulting me all morning.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0212	Now they have made a counsel concerning Taner Star, and have given two, and have given three, and have given four, and have given five, and have given six. So you haven't been on the side of Maliki until yesterday about economic policies, energy policies? You're dividing Iraq, you're dividing it. You've been talking about it all over the world.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0063par0214	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0215	What happened? What was the result? Turkey has moved ahead one step further in energy strategies. Is Maliki in position? No. Taner Star in position.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0064par0216	Tomorrow you won't be there either.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0217	Is Maliki in position? No. (EC PARTY) Today's Prime Minister, whom you blame, has become Turkey's President.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0065par0218	I need a face, a face!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0219	So the Republican People's Party has no energy strategy, no economic strategy, no social strategy for the public.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0065par0220	I need a face! 301 people died. You need a face to stay put.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0221	All the songs, all the lyrics, on Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on the policies of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0066par0222	301 miners alive? No.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0223	Do you have your own policy? No.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0067par0224	Yeah, answer the allegations, the allegations! Answer 2013!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0225	I oppose HESES, I oppose nuclear, I oppose natural gas, I oppose the wind...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0067par0226	I'll come out if you have any. I object to theft.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0068par0227	We're also against corruption.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0228	What's left? There's only one sun and a turd left. This is not how Turkey's energy policy works.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0067par0229	You'll steal, we'll watch. You can watch the theft, but I won't.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0230	About Turkey's future, Turkey's strategies, energy strategies...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0067par0231	What do you know about Turkey's future?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0232	You had to get him out of here. If you think you're going to make a bonus by throwing stones at Taner Star, attacking Taner Star, you're not going to be any good here in the AK PARTY group or in public.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0067par0233	Of course, you've cleared all four ministers of corruption.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0234	I can rest assured that Taner Yildiz is one of Turkey's most successful energy ministers. With a strong government behind him as a strategy for Turkey's energy policies, Turkey has made it an energy player in the Middle East.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0069par0235	Yes, Taner Star will defend himself, brother, you speak your mind.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0236	In relations with Russia, your criticism of natural gas pipelines, oil pipelines has all been destroyed here, with you, but the future of Taner Star and Turkey has always been clear.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0070par0237	What job did you get, what job? They'll make you deputy minister.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0238	Certainly, I sincerely say that if there is a state mind in Turkey, the Ministry of Energy and governments must also benefit from Taner Yıldız's experience, his work, and his savings.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0071par0239	So much flattery... Shame, but it doesn't suit you, Minister, don't flatter yourself here. The Minister will defend himself.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0240	Nothing can happen to Taner Star if you come up here and throw a stone in the middle.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0072par0241	You can still kiss my ass.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0242	A son of Kayseri is like Mount Everest; throw as many stones as you want; and Taner is a minister who is heard in energy policies in the world, who is discussed with him, who is spoken out of his mouth, who is spoken out of his mouth; and one of our most successful ministers is one of our ministers.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0073par0243	When you say "corruption," I always think of the Minister of Energy.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0244	So, there's a lot of bullshit going on here, and there's a lot of conflict going on in there.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0073par0245	Answer me! Answer 2013, 2013.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0246	...and to frame a minister by twisting events, and to accuse him personally... Look, if you did all these criticisms about our energy policies, I'd respect and argue, but what you call a gene is a serious business, a matter of character and honor.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0074par0248	Hey, 301 miners are dead, can't we tell you that?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0249	If you start discussing a person's personality, honor, dignity, and fabrication, remember, you're going to be discussing your personality, your dignity, your dignity. You need to take this seriously.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0075par0250	Let's argue, we're white, we're clean; there's no theft, there's no corruption.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0062par0251	So, with these feelings and thoughts, all of this work of yours, which is meant to only wear off, to deflect the agenda, and to try to cloud successful policies, will come back in public and we will be against you as our group, and I'll salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0076par0253	Four more minutes, four more minutes, tell me more.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0077par0254	Thank you, Mr. Nuts.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0078par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0077par0256	Yes, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0078par0257	Mr. Orator in his speech accused our party of unpoliticism regarding energy policies. It's an open taunt, I demand word, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0079par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0077par0259	What is your request?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0079par0260	Sir, you already know the whole conversation about me. He said, "If he had prepared the engineer, he would have asked the miners." He said, "My job is mining, and he doesn't even know it." That's what I want for him.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0080par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0077par0262	Yes, what is your name, Mr. Erdoğdu?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0080par0263	Mr. President, as I speak openly from the bench, as I do in the Commission, he has spoken both insulting and abusively. I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0077par0264	Okay. I'll make a promise to Mr. Altay first. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0081par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to show Mr. Hatti first and advise him to read it, and I would also advise the Minister to read it. I'm going to ask the minister and the minister who spoke on behalf of the AKP: how out-dependent were we before you, how out-dependent are we now? Have you read the Ministry of Energy Foundation and Agency Law?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0082par0272	Was there natural gas in Turkey before us?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0081par0273	In the Ministry of Energy and the Agency's Law on Energy, some criteria have been set up for energy: it says that it will be national, it will be small, it will say that it will be dependent on the outside. Have a heart, orator! You think because you found this bench empty, you could look this nation in the eye and paint a pink picture of energy here in 12 years with false energy policies and suspicious, suspicious, smells of theft, smell of corruption, where do you think you're bringing Turkey to this nation? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Moreover, he said no Maliki. As far as I know, Maliki is now Vice President of Iraq, one.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0083par0277	That's right. He doesn't know.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0081par0278	If you had the right policy on the region and energy, would the Minister's plane to Erbil have landed in Kayseri? For God's sake! You are not afraid of God, but be ashamed of these people, these cameras! [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is not a false stand, the public and the General Assembly. About Taner Yildıldoğlu will soon reveal the extent to which he has damaged the state by matter, by word, by word, by number, by word, by word, by word, by word, by means of documents of how much irregularity and corruption has been committed. You can't come in here and justify corruption by embezzlement, just like you can't clear the corruption of 17th and 25 December, in public, in public, in public, in public, in public, in public. You'll be crushed under this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0084par0284	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0085par0287	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our friend speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, are so clueless that there are very good mining engineers in you who are preparing the motion. Yes, sir, I'm a mining engineer, a graduate of Istanbul Technical University. What do you do for a living, where does your mining interest come from? I've been a mining engineer for 12 years, and I'm also known as a good engineer in my community, and I'm also a lawyer.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0084par0289	Please speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0085par0290	I know enough about the law to interpret contracts. The lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party know how much legal knowledge I have. You want to hide your ignorance by attacking someone else?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0086par0291	You're ignorant.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0085par0292	You answer my question, you come here, you answer my question. You know what I'm saying? Come back and answer me. My dear friends...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0086par0294	You're ignorant! Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0085par0296	Shut up, don't be rude! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0086par0297	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0087par0298	Mr. President, the clerk...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0088par0300	Please, Mr. Ozturk, address the General Assembly and please be careful what you say.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0089par0301	Was the contract signed on 4/10/2004 until 31/12/2015, before it was completed on 8/10/2013, extended to 1/10/2028 without the Board's decision? That's the question, that's the question. There's nothing before 2013, I've already told you that. The second question: Again, is the length of the contract signed with the additional protocol of 8/10/2013 on Soma Ash, and is it extended to 31/12/2026 without the executive board's decision on 8/9/2005? The prosecution you're talking about belongs to the court of 2009. I asked you there, I said give me a date, you're not giving me a date. If you're sincere about your claims... that question is very simple, about 2013. You're talking about 2009, I'm telling you where I am; I'm telling you to give me a date, you can't give me a date. There is no corruption in our religion, there is no theft, there is no covering up corruption, and there is no watching when you commit corruption.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0090par0305	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0091par0306	Saricul, Sarıgül...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0089par0307	Get out of here! We'll always face you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0092par0309	Sit down!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0093par0310	Please calm down, take your seats, please.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0089par0311	There's no pollution against you!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0093par0312	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0089par0313	First tell me your profession, I want to learn!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0094par0314	No BFFs, no bumps, no U.S. Mafia.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0093par0315	Please, calm down.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0093par0317	Did you say something?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0318	Mr. President, as we speak here, I'm returning to him any testimony that exceeds the bounds of discipline.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0096par0319	You're worthy of him!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0320	You're more worthy!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0096par0321	What do you do, what do you do?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0322	I'll discuss the level of your procedure.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0096par0323	You deserve him, you deserve more!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0324	I'll discuss the level of your literature!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0096par0325	You're low-level, you're the dirty man! You're a dark man!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0095par0326	I said the contract wasn't extended by the Board of Directors' decision because I told the general manager about the power vested in it. I mentioned the extension, and I said it was extended, and I said it was under the Director General's authority, and I read the Board of Directors' decision. So it's not like a man with a big head to twist words and compete and act like a teenager and think like a teenager. I'm returning it to him.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0096par0327	What, what, what, what, what? What do you do for a living?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0097par0328	Please, please, Congressmans. We're discussing a subject, we're discussing a subject, we're discussing a geneor. Please, please, pay very close attention to what you're saying, and don't take it so personally; please discuss the matter in context.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0098par0329	You can't deal with people whose levels aren't available.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0099par0330	Shut the fuck up and sit down!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0097par0331	Please, please calm down. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0100par0335	Mr. President, my goal is not to respond to this indecency here, but to inform the lawmakers and our people correctly. Look, the speaker comes in here and says: "We made a contract, it's called a redevance contract." And they do two transactions in this redevance contract: one, they buy coal; two, they rent mines. Now, is the state institution, the Turkish Coal Company, subject to Public Contraction Law 4734? Sure. The institution, which must be paid for coal by contracting, like any institution, has the courage to buy it with an excessive price -- in fact, a mixed contract -- without making any tenders. They don't answer that, they can't answer that. Second: new fields are being given. No bid, nothing. How dare you? And the most important element of a contract is that the general manager does the extension with one signature and talks about the chart behind a report. There is no time to speak of the provisions of Law No. 233, or the rule of law concerning the People's Rights. But, you know what happens in the end? That 301 miner died, and that 301 miner didn't die by accident; so, with the order of those contracts, he was killed, killed, and killed in their custody. Since the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources did not do his duty, he was killed by producing 3.5 million tons of coal from the mine with an additional 1.5 million tons of coal at exorbitant prices, and for robbing the state in every ton of coal. And, the blood of those workers was gone, used in the cement of that 52-story residence in Maslak, which was used in front of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, they've come to us, they've got... you're talking about the prosecutor, you're saying that there's a public contract agency writing. From what you're telling me, it's like the Public Contractor's Office gave it permission... it's like this, I came from the government, I saw that article. And he sent me this general manager, and he said, "This is the proper writing." I barely found the writing, I barely found the writing, which is tax related. And they went to the Public Contraction Agency, and they tried to get approval from it, and that Public Contraction Agency didn't approve of it. Over the years, each institution had to negotiate information to the Public Contractor's Office, while they hid it from the Public Contraction Agency and bought billions of dollars of coal at auction-free, overpriced prices. What was the result? With that coal, electricity prices doubled over those gas corruptions. Guys, the lair is moaning. You're coming here... isn't it a pity that you're misinformationing your own congressman... and you're showing up with this missing and false information and insulting it. I'm not insulting you because your current situation is already too severe, and I don't have to say anything. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0101par0345	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0102par0352	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the CHP Group on behalf of the high-profile lawmakers. I hereby salute you all. My dear friends, have you read the generic text? You don't usually read gene questions, and this time it came up a little sudden, because of the density of the agenda, because of the commission work. I'll tell you very briefly: This is the disaster site of the Soma minefield, where 301 people died, where there are two companies employed by the Turkish Coal Company, Tİ General Directorate: İmbat AŞ and Soma AŞ. In the beginning, contracts with these firms in 2004 and 2005 are quite reasonable, with legislation-compliant contracts, while in later years, additional work on them is still in accordance with the legislation, with 2013, which is being extended by both companies on 8/10/2013. Both of these extension agreements with both firms are against public tender legislation and TKI is against its own redevance directive. It's been counter-processed, and with these procedures, with this extension, given additional work, there's over $4 billion in two firms, over $4 billion, see, over $2 billion -- which I can calculate in a different way, which I'll be able to do in a little bit -- and I'll show in detail -- it's a privilege, it's an advantage, it's very simple, it's not complicated. I'll go into detail on that. My dear friends, I'm not happy to come here with a full-blown, corrupt situation, so let me be clear. It's not a good thing to come here and accuse a minister of the Republic of Turkey, it's for a congressman, and I'm not happy about it. I didn't come at this like a Moor. Look, this came up months ago. Last year, when it came to the agenda, I sat next to the Minister, told him, explained the matter, explained it. I said, Mr. Secretary, there's a situation like this, they say, do something about it. So I told him about things that wouldn't be in writing, about things that shouldn't be in official correspondence, and he said, OK. Then I gave you written question proposals. Later, during the bag of law -- there was a clause -- came up again, and then came up again during the budget talks. I've talked to him over and over again, but none of them have answered. Also, my dear friends, I, the Minister, look, I wrote a nine-page letter, nine pages. I also explained the subject in this letter, and I wrote this nine-page letter. During budget talks, I said, "Mr. Minister, why didn't you answer the letter?" I sent this letter to the Minister of Labor and Social Security, and he thanked me. I won't tell you about my speech. I also sent this letter to the Chairman of the Court, and I sent it to the President of the Plan and Budget Commission, and I sent it to the President and members of the CIT Commission. There are some very important allegations. The Minister hasn't made a sound. In the Budget Commission, he said: "You didn't send them to me." I gave him the date number and whatever day they were delivered. So I didn't just show up out of the blue and say, "Oh, we caught a minister, let's destroy him." I didn't show up. So whatever needs to be done, I've done it all so much, so meticulously. And then he got to this point, and then he couldn't get an answer, so so so far we've had to give him the gene. I mean, it's not like we jumped to conclusions, we studied it very thoroughly, and then we brought it up. Let me get this straight. Yesterday in a newspaper, the Honorable İstanbul MP Burhan Kuzu (Gensoru), the MPs don't vote against the ministers of their own party, so there's no audit. Yeah, he's got a geneorial function, but it doesn't work. He said it doesn't work.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0103par0359	That means he's a traitor! Al, there's another traitor among you!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0102par0360	This was in a newspaper yesterday. Let's hope this doesn't happen, and this time you'll pay attention in the face of very clear arguments. In the face of these meticulous claims that I have brought, I hope this House will do what is necessary to this great House. Because, my dear friends, corruption is done by individuals, corruption, mistakes are done by individuals, but it costs society, it becomes culture of society. I'm afraid that the wrong with individuals is a culture of society if it's not done with those who commit corruption, and to allow it is a greater sin than corruption, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a burden, it's a responsibility. I hope this High Council won't allow it, won't allow it. I mean it in good faith. The spirit of this society should not be concentrated with corruption. For him, I wish this great House had done exactly what it had to do with it. Dear lawmakers, since we live together, we have to make rules, make rules, all of us, we have to follow them. We have to stick to the rules, and we have to do justice. These are the legal dimension, the official size, the democratic dimension, but there's another dimension, there's a conscience. Tomorrow at Friday's prayer, the majority of us will hear the teacher's words of justice, kindness, and help to the relatives. We have to do justice together. We must seek justice, my dear friends. Whatever justice is, we have to do it together on our consciences. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going back to the subject of your question. I just summed it up, so let me give it to you in detail. Now, you know, in the mine site where 301 people died on May 13, 2014 -- it's a major coal mine site -- the TKI works here, as I just said. There are two companies in which TİKIE has a contract. One of them is the rejection agreement with Imbat AŞ. Mr. orator just said: "There is a contract. There are two contracts, two kinds of contracts: a redevance contract, a service contract." The Redevans contract, according to TKI's own directive, is subject to public tender Act 4735 and the Public Contracts Act 4734. So, like this, different issues to separate from each other. First, if you'll excuse me, let me tell you about the contract with the Redevansist Imbat Ash. Look, on 4/10/2004, there was a contract with Imbat Ash. Ir-1918, Ir-4623, Ir-4009, these are license numbers; they were signed in 2004. The rejection agreement was valid until 31/12/2015. The Governing Body Resolution No. 16/154 was adapted at 12/4/2006. Look, there's a board decision. The 26/9/2007 has been given an additional job here as well as 5m58,000 tons of additional work, but there is the Governing Body's Decision 25/466, and the Governing Body's decision has been made again. I'm not making any claims about these, these are normal, legislative procedures. However, the 8/10/2013 is being extended on 8/10/2013, and the 2004 contract is extended until 1/10/2028, see, it is extended until 2028. There are five million additional jobs, such as the Governing Body's decision; it's being adapted, there's a board decision. This time it's extended to 2028, there's no board decision, there's no tender, but it extends the job -- look, thirteen years -- to 2028, thirteen years. Every year, right now, at least 5 million, 6 million, 7 million tons of coal are involved, and I have all the details. According to this, I calculate from 3 million tons, that it will produce 3 million tons of coal a year. Look, it's not 5, 6, 7, it's 3 million tons, I'm counting from the lowest. Thirteen years at 3 million tons makes 39 million tons of coal. 39 million tons of coal are being given without contract, without the board's decision.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0104par0366	It's a disgrace!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0102par0367	The average price of coals that TİKIbook has so far received from Imbat AŞ -- I don't count the amount of coals -- is 61.75 per ton until 2013. $61.75, 39 million tons, $2.5 billion, $2.5 billion. It's also possible to calculate this as 65 million tons, and then we get a lot more -5 billion dollars -- a lot more. Now, these transactions -- I just said -- there's TKI's own redevance regulation, and here, there's the 13th article of this regulation, which is against this clause. In addition to this clause, of course, look, it has to go through the approval of the Governing Body very clearly. That's exactly what it says here, my friend from the HDP has just read the article, it has to be appropriate, it's not appropriate. Besides, he doesn't have the authority to extend. He says that changing the order is not even in the power of the Governing Body. Look, Mujahit Bey just said that the process has been changed. He's not even authorized to change the time. Come on, he can give additional work, but the Governing Body can't change the time. It's so unusual, so it's so obvious, how do I put it? It is clear to the firm that the contract period is increased by thirteen years, providing at least 39 million tons of coal and 2.5 billion dollars of advantage. Mr. Secretary has also watched this, although I've told you so many times, very clearly. I'll tell you what he said in a minute, what he was defending, and how it was invalid. Now, let me come to the other firm. The other company in this area is Soma Corp. As I've just said with Soma Ash, it's not redevans, it's 8/9/2005. Ir-1841-2406 license number. It's a 18 million-ton contract for Geventepe. The first addition was an additional job at 30/6/2011. It's in accordance with the regulations, there's a board decision because there's no extension. The second additional job was at 1/3/2012. There's a board decision, 2 million 136 thousand tons. Look, it's very clear, but the second addition was transferred to the Mummy position. It's given to Geventepe, and it's being transferred to Central Mummy. That's against the law, too. License number Ir-2535, this one too. The third addition was made at 8/11/2012, with the Board of Directors' decision, 35/429. The Board of Directors says that until 31/12/2016, the reserve in the field of light (ir-944) is to be run by Soma Anonym Corporation. This is a completely separate place. There are 35 million tons of reserves, coal reserves, and 6 million tons of this reserve are given to this company; 6 million tons of 35 million tons. So the company that started producing in Geventepe is here, in a place like Sincan. First the Mummy's position, then the Lights. See the fourth addition, both companies are extended on 8/10/2013, at the same time by TKI. It says: The term of the contract, dated 8/9/2005, is extended until 31/12/2026, until the end of the work period in 2016. I mean, it's been extended for ten years, but there's no board decision, no tender. For the ten years at stake, I'm counting from the same 3 million. According to public tender legislation, the maximum increase of 20 per cent could be in accordance with Article 24 of the Public Contracts Act, 20 per cent. Look, it's way out of his league, way out of his league, that kind of thing. The average price of coals given to Soma Asş is $58.39 per ton, times 10 years, and at least $1 billion 750 million is an advantage from here. At least 4 billion dollars above 4 billion, over $2 billion above the two firms. These are numbers that I calculate at least, at least. Two-and-a-half for Imbat Corp, 1,750 for Soma Inc, a total of over $4 billion, over $2 billion. These are big money everywhere, like I said, my dear friends. Now, it's not inconsequential, and the Minister should have considered it. I think Burhan Lamb Hodja will be embarrassed and do what is necessary here. Now, what did the Minister say about all this? Mr. Secretary has given different, deceptive, false information, and Mr. Mujahit has just repeated this information -- he has nothing to do with it. On 31/07/2007, 600000/580. There's a board decision. It was based on the decision taken in 2007 by the Governing Body. Such a Governing Body is not valid, there are rules. There's a limit to that, and that's within the law. This is not in accordance with the directive, nor is it in accordance with the Law of Contraction. (CHP applause) Such authority cannot be given, it cannot be transferred from the Governing Body to the CEO. It is not transmitted; it is limited in 2007. Mr. Secretary, let's see if he can explain the contents to the general manager, who's been given the power of the subprime. He doesn't have that kind of authority. After that, he says, Mr. Secretary: I had the inspectors look into it, as he wanted his own investigators to examine it, but not this issue. This was in 2013, he had it examined in the past years, he didn't have it examined. Two: there is a court order. There's a court order about the past years, I don't know about that, and there's no court order for this incident in 2013. I've filed a criminal complaint, and if there's a court order, there will be one after this, and I've also filed a criminal complaint. If you're serious, if you're a man, if you're a bully, you'll press charges!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0105par0377	That's where he got the prosecutors, that's why.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0102par0378	The matter has been brought to an independent judiciary, but I believe the High Assembly will do what is necessary here. My dear friends, I am speaking to you again, the precious lawmakers, who are dedicated to Shakespeare, I want to repeat this: those who fear to love, who fear to lose; those who fear to think, who fear to take responsibility; those who fear to speak, who fear to be criticized, who are afraid to speak, not to speak. Those who fear old age, those who do not know the value of youth and life, those who fear to live; those who fear to be forgotten, those who do not leave a permanent artifact in the world; those who fear to die fear that they are not ready to die. (HP and MHP in rows) He hasn't been able to account for it yet. As I just said, although I've been dealing with him over and over again, I've been asking him over and over with the Plan and Budget Commission, and he couldn't answer the question. He should have quit by now, he couldn't quit because he was afraid to answer. My dear friends, there are other matters, and I wanted to add them, but my 20 minutes weren't enough. As I just said, I'm not more than happy to be here, and I'm not happy to accuse a Republican Minister of corruption, but I'm afraid that's the truth. I address your conscience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please do what is necessary in this matter. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0106par0387	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz... Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0107par0391	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. As you well know, as the Ministry, we are one of the institutions that has the highest level of attention and care for the operation of the Parliamental control mechanism, and with all our transparency, we are able to defend all our work, praise be to God. As far as our ministry is concerned, we've been asked about 2,500 questions since we started our mission. These have been assessed, along with proposals and contributions, not only related to your information on the answering of the question motions, and they have been published on the website of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Around 7,000 pages of this information was all published together. Of course, it is an interrogation and inspection mechanism presented to the MPs of our great Parliament, and it must be used correctly. As before, I hope to complete these words, with every sentence I've spoken to here today, as long as the group's vice presidents get their papers handed out to them. Dear friends, so far, there have been some comments, recommendations, suggestions, criticism, insults, accusations, accusations. There have been 17 insults, 57 accusations, 36 criticisms and a number of sentences. I'm returning the insults, and hopefully I'll continue to talk about all the other sentences. But it has never been seen for the first time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, friends, to quote a minister's television speech as if it were a mysterious situation. We have been asked why we withdrew from Libya. We were taken for security reasons. There's no mystery, no secrets, no secrets. It's the first time we've been asked, my friends, to see if any of this has been done in the program that we're doing with the launch of our shares from Total. That's why I'm here to answer everything with clarity. Now, the business of the genome is a serious institution, and the ministers who deal with the gene have to consider it in all its aspects. But I would like to point out that the CHP Group does not include all MPs: this was first given on January 9, 2015. Our 16 CHP MPs withdrew their signature and the geneor fell. After that, 13 MPs, other than three of those MPs, didn't sign there again, didn't sign the second gene. I'll tell you why in a little while.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0108par0397	That's because you tried to hide the gene. Now, of course, this CHP's internal problem is friends. Any of these... they may have signed their signatures because they don't think these allegations are serious, they may have taken them for another reason, it's the subject within the CHP itself. The accusation is, look, please listen carefully to this sentence, friends: the work given to the two companies is legal, but the work term is extended without the Board of Directors' decision. No, the extension of employment is not against the law. Right now, I'm handing out documents to four of our vice presidents. Here's what it says in the paper, it's been asked a few times, but I see the ability to answer once. He says to the director of the Governing Body: "You can use my powers, such as that, and so on. You've tasted them, and you don't have unlimited authority. It says that among these are the approval of the work schedule, the employment schedule and the expense of expenses, the transfer of the fee group to internal funds, the extension of the contract... Yeah, he can't give me 15 years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0400	The terminus of the contract grants an extension, which the Governing Body grants to the CEO, my friends.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0110par0401	God forbid, 15 years, 10 years is an extension?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0402	Now, friends give me your papers.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0111par0404	He won't, he won't! You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0405	Here, dear friends, at this point the answer to your gene question is finished, the answer to this gene is completed. And what I'm going to tell you next, please, I'm going to offer your attention. In detail related to the transfer of authority, the transfer of authority to Turkish public law is subject to Article 38 of Law 3046, and the minister, undersecretary and executives at all levels can transfer some of its powers to their subordinates, provided they have to establish their limits in writing. However, the transfer of authority does not remove the responsibility of the chief when the power is in effect. Powers can be transferred, responsibilities not transferred. A sentence in parallel to this arrangement can also be passed on to the general manager in Article 9 of the Code of Law 233, provided the executive boards clearly establish their limits. However, the transfer of authority does not lift the responsibility of the governing body. Now, on 31/7/2007, the TSI Governing Body transfers its power transfer with its figures, explaining that, in the same way, it can be transferred to the general manager in extension of the contract. And here are all the clauses of that, and with the board's decision, I'm going to be renegotiating to the group's vice presidents again. Therefore, there is no harm if the Governing Body transfers part of its authority to the general manager, and the general manager uses it. In the seventh month of last year, I answered the written motions given to me by Mr. Kusoglu (7/46984) and (7/46986). I'd like to once again share with you why something that can be understood, that may be very easy to understand, can come to the agenda of the genome. This could be one of the reasons why he wrote that he was overwhelmed, but that he was shot by people on the same front, not by enemy bullets, but by his own bullet. I'm not getting into this. Maybe he wants to show his CHP status.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0112par0410	Read the whole article.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0411	I can't comment on that, but from a technical point of view, I'd like to get into the technical details of this, as long as his political interpretations are his own.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0113par0412	Tell me how you got coal without a contract.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0413	Because, my dear friends, I'm going to present to you with documents that this is not only within the CHP, but also within the CHP MPs.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0114par0414	Look at yours, 50 MPs didn't vote, you tell me.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0415	In September 2014, our ministry received a petition. In November 2014, the republic's attorney general's office is also indicted.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0115par0416	Mr. President, would you tell the speaker to talk about his client, there's a very important matter, he's gossiping about the CHP. Get serious, will you?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0417	These allegations were raised in the Plan and Budget Commission during budget talks in November 2014. Three things are mentioned there, dear friends, alone by the same person: 2 firms were given work without contract and against the law. The lengths of this work have been extended without the Board of Directors' decision, and as a result of these transactions, the public has lost it, and there are three charges. We explained all of this in the Commission and stated that we had taken our power from our transparency, that there was no account that we could not thank God for.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0116par0418	What account have you given me so far?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0419	I'm sending the documents that prove these allegations aren't true to our group presidents right now. These documents include 1 Ministerial Review Board decision; 1 Prime Ministerial Board decision; this is not enough; this is not enough; this is not enough; this is not enough; 1 court decision; 1 People's tender institution opinion; 1 academicly qualified legal opinion. Dear friends, I'd like to present to our group presidents... these eight files with the title to them right now. However, the three charges made in the Plan and Budget Commission have been dropped by the same person. Why? Part of the subject, part of the important part, is understood.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0117par0421	Mr. Secretary, don't suspect people, who are you calling the same person?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0422	So the issue is well understood, and the claims that two firms were given a job without contract and violation of the legislation have been waived as a result of these transactions. Although his gene is repeatedly highlighted... although I've already told him that the entire CHP does not feel that way, so do some of its friends. Why?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0118par0424	The entire CHP thinks you're a corrupt minister.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0425	In 2009, the two contracts were signed against the law, without tenders, and were alleged to have damaged the public in a criminal complaint against the state's attorney's office. This matter has not been processed by the state's attorney's office, and it has been decided that there is no place to prosecute on behalf of the public. In opposition to the prosecution's decision, some CHP MPs have appealed to the court, and the court has rejected these objections.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0118par0426	Did you change the law? Did you change the law here? Did you get a pardon law?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0427	So we're in an environment where there's no reputation for sentences to re-criminalize, friends, which are the only reason for giving a gene, which led to the extradition of one of the genes given by the former People's Republican People's Party (CHP).
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0118par0428	You're the one with no reputation! You're the killer of 301 miners! Who are you pointing at?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0429	Maybe a month later, that information would have been read enough, and they might not have been able to find a congressman to sign under this second motion. Mr. President, I've told you before, we're going into some details. The motion for the geneorization submitted by Mr. Kusoglu has been addressed in the TİKI audit reports of the High Control Board for matters which violate public tender legislation in exchange for the transfer of the mine site to TİKİ. The Oversight Board wants this examined. The D.E.D.C. requests that this matter first be investigated by our Ministry of Investigations Chairman. The issue was investigated by our Ministry and the Investigation Board, and in a nutshell, it is said that due to the advantages of this field, the position of this field does not reflect the truth, that it is necessary for technical and business to be given to the company mentioned, and that it is in the interest of the institution. I'm also presenting this to the members of the group. Our presidency is being asked to investigate the matter in the Prime Minister's office after the decision of the Inspection Board. At the end of the examination of the presidency of the Prime Minister's Board of Investigation, the decision is made that these allegations do not reflect the truth and that the proceedings do not require punishment and disciplinary action, but it is once demanded that the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office consider the issue. And in addition to that, I'm giving them the papers, and that's the guys. The issue is being investigated by the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and as a result of the review, 22/5/2006 dates and 2006/37977 investigations are no. In addition to the verdict, members of the TKI Board of Directors have been given the ruling that they do not need to be prosecuted and not to be processed due to the absence of any criminal activity.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0119par0432	That's not what he said! There's a public interest. He says the prosecutor hides it behind public interest! That's not what he's saying. Tell me that part!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0433	Dear friends, we're about to offer this to the members of the group, the members of the group, the members of the group of the four parties.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0119par0434	And give me the date of that article over there, the Public Contraction Agency!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0435	The same issue is being filed against the Public Prosecutor's Office, along with a group of CHP MPs claiming that coals distributed to poor families in 2009 were bought in violation of the legislation, irregularities and public damages. Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office makes a decision on 6 December 2012. Even if we think for a moment that it's in the context of co-operation, dear friends, even if we think it's in the public contractor's name -- because it's not the case -- the contractor who's been bought from him -- this time is directly provided by the only sales measure listed above, and therefore there's no violation of his tender legislation for direct procurement. Now, dear friends, in the framework of all of this, the final sentence is as follows: "As a result, there is also the use of the treasure of the advantage that TİKIE has made for it from manufacturers under its control under the standard conditions of production. " It has been decided that there is no need for a public case to be filed and there is no need to be processed; that the proceedings which have been examined under this title have been investigated in previous times; that the procedures, procedures, and judicial processes have been determined to be in accordance with the legislation. As a result, it has been determined that the decision to disobey has been made, that the decision has been finalized. He's saying, "Hey, And we're handing it out to the members of the group, along with the additional six. The court's decisions and the prosecution's decisions. The Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's decision that there is no room for the December 6th, 2012, and the number of relevant prosecutions mentioned above has been re-indicted by the complainant MP and...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0120par0438	I'm that MP. Did you or did you not change the law?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0439	... The severe criminal court determines the motion to dismiss. And we're giving it to the members of the group to decide whether or not to reject the objection. Thus completes the process of all investigations into these allegations, forensic and administrative. Now, dear friends, here's the thing: the institutional structure of the CHP can't find the ground in the genome. They need to make a decision from the beginning. CHP will sit down, make a decision about it in itself and share it with the public. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as we all know, are subject to the chairman of the Department of Control Services, the chairman of the Board of Treasury Controllers, the President of the Prime Ministership, the President of the State Controllers, the President of the Republic, the President of the Court of Public Relations, the President of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, and the administrative authorities. In the audit report of 2013 by TİKÜ General Directorate, during the Court Report Evaluation Board's 13/10/2014 session and 2014/54 -- this is also very important friends -- and after Mr. Kusoğlu filed a complaint against the Presidency of the Court of Justice 19/9/2014... An MP is complaining, the Court of the Report Evaluation Board is filing a report after that complaint. This report gives 15 recommendations and recommendations, including 5 generally related to the 2013 operations and all decisions and procedures of the TKI General Directorate in 2013. The Court's audit report for TKI 2013 did not include an investigation or investigation into the duration extensions of contracts referred to in the motion of the geneor -- nor was there any recommendation or advice included in the Court's census report.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0121par0443	Mr. Secretary, have you written to the institutions?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0109par0444	This means that the Court considers these procedures to be legal and proper and does not look at the matter as Mr. Kusoglu. Dear friends, I'm also passing on the additional report on this to the members of the group's vice president. Dear friends, his gene is a sharp blade on both sides, and if he doesn't touch the other one, he'll come and touch you. So, there is the world, and the Hereafter. I invite you to beware of slander, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0122par0447	Thank you, Mr. Star. [[Noises]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request from all of you, that you have turned it into a hornet's nest, and there's a noise that I've had trouble hearing even the Minister properly. Please, if you'll just be quiet, I'll listen to the demands better, and I'll hear them better, and you'll be better lit up.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0123par0450	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0122par0451	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0123par0452	Mr. Secretary has misled the General Board of Directors on the grounds that we've pulled the gene questions we've given him earlier. Furthermore, he accused the Republican People's Party Group of no integrity in the nature of this gene, and made a misinformation and taunt about our group, and I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0124par0454	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0455	Mr. Erdoğdu, what do you want?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0124par0456	Mr. President, I'm the speaker of the last one we gave you, the MP, who did not tease me or insult me or insult me, and I'd like to answer from the stand, sir.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0457	Mr. Kusoglu, your request is...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0126par0458	Mr. Secretary, during his speech, I...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0460	Will you be quiet, please? I'd like to ask you very much, Councillors. I mean, what else do you expect me to say, to be quiet, I can't hear. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0126par0462	Mr. Secretary said I was overwhelmed during his speech and gave him this kind of gene to show my CHPIness, and I'd like to talk to him about it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0463	What did you say, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0127par0464	Mr. President, it's not about the person, it's very clearly expressed. What Mr. Altay is talking about is that this is completely...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0466	Now, after their conversation, you can answer if you want. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0128par0468	Mr. Altay seems to be exercising his right to explain.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0129par0469	Sir, he requested a correction, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0470	Now, members of the group, I'd like to ask you very much, please...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0128par0471	We ask you to follow the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0125par0472	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0130par0475	I said that he gave false information to the General Assembly about the consensus of our group. Mr. Elitaş, when you're talking to the presidency, when you're talking to the chair, what I know is that you stand up. You're an experienced congressman, and I'll remind you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, the Minister's statement is correct. We gave Mr. Kusoglu's previous report on January 9th, but, you know, about the 4 ministers (9/8) we were as confident as we were that you would install this gene on the day of the meeting of the main Investigation Commission Report (9/8). Based on the intention of the AKP Group, which is so separate from each other in parliament, which is the idea of pulling two jobs together, we've asked some of our friends to withdraw their signatures from this gene, because they've been given a number of jobs, and because they've taken a number of jobs, and that's why our friends have withdrawn their signatures, not because they trust you, but because they believe that there is no irregularity and abuse in your work. Mr. Secretary says, sir, they did, but then three people didn't sign. The 3 CHP MPs, signed in the first genome, did not sign the second gene text, so they did not honor the gene text or its property.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0131par0480	It's hard to explain what's not. You're saying this without even believing it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0130par0481	Mr. Secretary, we don't have the custom of falsifying and disposing, it belongs to your party. (HPP) So instead of our friends who weren't here, we couldn't sign instead of our friends who were out of Ankara, we couldn't sign off on our group's vice presidents or our party managers. In that respect, I'd like to underline that, too. Gene, there are those in the Republican People's Party Group who don't believe in the nature of this problem, and there are those who don't, and there are those who don't, and there are those who don't. I would also like to say that all members of the Republican People's Party Group here have a strong belief that Turkey's energy policies and some other policies smell of corruption at the bottom. Let us go, let the CHP Group go, and all 77 million of our citizens who live in Turkey -- including those who voted for you -- have full faith that this government is involved in corruption. My respects.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0132par0485	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0133par0488	Mr. President, I've always been insulted by this person, but I've taken the stand to inform this House and this nation. He's right about one thing, the Prime Minister's High Control Board has detected a major corruption related to Soma. The matter went to the Prime Minister's Board of Investigations, and I'm on the Treasury Board, and I'm on it, and I know what the pressures are. The Prime Minister's Board wrote a statement of acquittal, but since he was afraid, he also put the conclusion: "Let the prosecution take a look at it." He went; I have the non-observation decision that Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor has spoken about. Look, you're gonna bring that sign and put it in here. The 13/5/2003 date and Article 3830 are considered outside KİK extension 4734. What do you understand? This article says you don't think it's outside the scope of the Public Contraction Act. Isn't it? I'm reading from the D.A.'s decision, have him bring this article here, see what it says on the content of the article, one. The second issue is the prosecutor's decision -- look, it's a very sad thing for all of us -- friends -- see the prosecutor's decision: it has been concluded that TKI executives, a commercial corporation, cannot be charged with producing coal at the cost of 1 per cent of their own production costs. It is not a legal assessment, but a disparaging situation of this judiciary, it has been assessed at a cost of 1. Didn't we see that accident cost $140? You know that prosecutor, the prosecutor, who made the decision that the D.A. made, he lost 301 lives because of those decisions made by the Minister of Energy, and that 301 lives went away. Now, it's coming into my report. I wrote a report. If I were to make those rumors, I would tell you what I was talking about in his room with Mehmet Simsek, what happened to Hilmi Güler. But I am not such a man, I will speak to you with the document again. I wrote the report. There are some of you who know that I have been persecuted or persecuted by the Undersecretary of the Treasury. I took the report, gave it to the Attorney General of the Republic, this Ali Babacan didn't send it, I took it myself. They took my duties -- when I worked for the Treasury Undersecretary -- but they had nothing to do with the report. Your group, did you hire, by law of amnesty, with the corruption of coal? Did you or did you not say that by adding Law 4734 (R) the distribution of coal to poor families is beyond the scope of the Law of Contraction? And by saying that, did you or did you not clear it by taking it out of the tender law? Now, you're yelling from here. I'm sorry, you're partners in this crime. You know what I'm sorry about? I feel sorry for the people who voted for you, my heart hurts for him.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0134par0494	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0133par0496	Why are you laundering the poor's money, the orphan's rights, the murder of 301 miners? Shame on you! It's not fair that I'm really crying inside!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0135par0498	It's a pain in the ass.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0136par0500	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0137par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I've taken a promise from Mr. Minister to tease me during his speech, but I'm not going to answer him, so no one can doubt my CHP. (CHP clapping in rows) But you don't have to deflect the issue. Look, I made a claim to the Minister, and I told him in detail that I'd been studying this for months, that I'd reported it to him in writing, that I'd told him in writing, that I'd told him over and over again in the Plan and Budget Commission. Mr. Secretary, as I said in my speech, it says that in 2007, there was a Board of Directors' decision, which was passed on to him. Look, the decision of the Board of Directors has always been made to do additional work after 2007. Second: The Governing Body does not even have the authority to extend the extension. The board won't authorize it, it's not authorized, it's about the extension. The extension requires a tender. Ten years and thirteen years extended, and the Board of Directors has no jurisdiction. The directive is very clear, the extension cannot be handed over. It says, "It's very clear, it's very clear." Please see this, understand, we didn't come here for nothing. Look, it says here that only those who can be transferred to power can be transferred to the general manager of those who can be done. It's very clear. The Minister is a good speaker, a good politician, and he's confused, confused. A lot of people haven't worked on it, but it's not true. The previous court decisions are not related to 2013. My claim is about 2013, about 2013, about 2006, about 2009. It has nothing to do with the review board decisions, the reports, and the previous court decisions, before 2013, with nothing to do with 2013. This is what he claims about 2013. This isn't about that, look at the attachments behind it, it's just contracts about the forges. I mean, it's not the extension of the contract on coal extraction, it's the extension on different, very simple issues, which are not authorized to extend the length of time, according to the directive. The Minister shouldn't have said that. The Minister should have resigned by now, really, like I just said. And he also says: "Mr. Kusoğlu has given up two parts of the 3 claims he made in his budget speech. It's obvious that the public is hurting, and I haven't given up on him; it's clear that the things that are being done against the law are very clear, and I didn't give up; I put them all together, and I gave them to you in a more orderly manner; that's the end of the matter. He sees it very clearly, who has worked in the state, who knows the contracts, who knows the tender legislation, who knows the guidelines. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0138par0512	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0516	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I will endeavor to re-explain three fundamental points before you take too much of your peace. First of all, by paying attention to my speech... it is of course the internal issue of the CHP, and it is not our place to enter into it. But, but I said...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0140par0517	Then mind your own business, dear. Then mind your own business.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0518	Dear friends, now, look, even just now, your husband, Mr. Altay, said three of our deputies.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0141par0519	You said three MPs didn't sign it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0520	It's not. Look, there are five signatures in two motions.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0142par0521	God, what are we saying? What's he saying?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0143par0522	What's it to you, what's it to you?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0523	Only 16 signed in the first motion, 15 signed in the second motion alone.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0144par0524	What is it, Mr. Secretary? So, if they don't sign in there, does that mean you're clean?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0525	I'm telling you now: 13 people signed it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0144par0526	He told you why he took it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0145par0527	He suffered from your deceit.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0528	It's a coincidence that 16 people didn't sign it. Look, the 16 people over there didn't sign off on it, and I'm just correcting information about it, and I'm not saying anything. I'm just trying to fix this...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0146par0529	What are you talking about? Tell me about the theft!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0147par0530	It's childish, very childish.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0531	Guys, why would you get upset about this information, it's not information to be angry about?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0147par0532	Yeah, we don't get angry, we don't get angry.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0533	This information is very clear, it's in the transcripts, it's all over the place.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0148par0534	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0139par0535	Why? Yeah, well, that's not something to worry about. Yeah, I'm saying relax, it's nothing to worry about. I'm passing this on to our friend with the cavás. Dear friends, the Board of Directors has given this signing authority to the director. I'll pass it on to Mr. Altay. These signatures, dear friends, have been used 143 times, 143 times.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0149par0537	Mr. President, it cannot be disbanded without your instructions.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0150par0538	That won't be necessary, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0151par0539	Give it to him, give it to him.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0152par0540	We're returning it, return it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0153par0541	Now, please, don't break the rules.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0154par0542	Look, 143 times, 143 times, there's no law against it, there's no law against it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0155par0543	Tell me on your conscience if it lasts 15 years. Tell me on your conscience if 15 years goes by without bidding.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0154par0544	Now, dear friends, look, I said, why haven't you reflected your testimony in the Plan Budget into the gene? If you're sure, why don't you reflect it? Because, dear friends, the institution he claims to have damaged, TKI, has profited $1 billion,70 million, 361,600 dollars. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) For passing that information on to them.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0155par0545	Then how much money did you transfer from the treasure? You robbed the treasure and profited over poor families, who are you kidding?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0154par0546	In terms of the amount extended under the same circumstances, I've given you all kinds of details. Dear friends, I have a suggestion, one last suggestion... don't worry, my friends.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0156par0548	No one's in a hurry, Mr. Secretary, you're the one who's in a hurry!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0157par0549	You're the one who's freaking out!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0154par0550	I have one last suggestion: in about ten documents, I have submitted a memo to you, to all of our group presidents. Please copy them and send them to the MPs, and they'll understand the facts more. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0158par0553	Thank you, Mr. Star. Energy and Natural Resources...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0159par0555	Mr. President, we need to at least make a correction.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0158par0556	Fix it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0159par0559	Mr. Secretary, I don't know what he intends to do by showing us lawmakers with signatures on the previous genomes in red and black, but he himself said there were no signatures of three MPs on the stand. But in the comfortable seats of the Minister's Ministry, he must have forgotten about the Parliamentary Interior Charter. According to the Turkish Parliament's Interior Charter, each minister can be asked by the signature of 20 MPs. Point is, we don't fake signatures, we don't fake votes, we don't fake them, we don't fake them in Ankara. For him, these names are different. I'd like to say this to the Minister.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0160par0560	For God's sake!
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0159par0561	And I'll mail him the book on the Republican People's Party's Energy Policy. If he reads this book, I hope a lot of things will be better for our national energy policy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0161par0563	Mr. Engin, send it now.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0564	Congressmans, we're clear.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0566	Mr. Kusoglu, what do you want?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0567	Mr. President, during his speech, Mr. Secretary, I've been told by the Plan and Budget Commission that I've claimed that the institution has been harmed by the TKI...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0569	I can't hear...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0570	...but here he says I'm giving up that bet. It's out of the question; I want to fix it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0571	Okay, he's in the report, sir. And you fixed it, and you said it wasn't like that.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0573	I don't have that kind of claim; I'd like to make it right.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0574	Loud and clear for him, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0576	Can't I fix it on the stand, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0577	And you corrected him, but you corrected him before, and you repeated [your deeds], and he went on record.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0163par0578	But he repeated...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0579	And now you've fixed it.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0164par0580	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0581	Mr. Vural, what do you demand?
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0164par0583	Sir, Mr. Secretary, I'm sending some documents to the members of the group. He testified. We have studied these documents, but they are not documents that eliminate the irregularity of Soma. So I'd like to say that the allegations of irregularities in Soma, and in some tenders, unfortunately, in the light of these documents, there is no evidence that there is, in fact, the Holy Trinity. We will use our will in this frame.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0162par0584	Thank you, sir. What is your request, I'll listen to you last.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0165par0587	No, it's not my request, it's an explanation. The Minister sent me five or six additional ones, but the last research commission of the House went to Soma, where he studied them. We had a member in that review. Our opposition fortune is 200 to 300 pages, and none of the plastic documents that were sent here are exonerated, and this is the first one in Soma. My second request is, Mr. Secretary, that we distribute these five or six eclectics to our members who have been sent to us. Please, Mr. Secretary, there's money being earned from energy, there are winners, please distribute it to 550 MPs. Is that our job? We don't do postal work, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2015-02-05sit02spe0166par0590	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Now, negotiations have been concluded on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Energy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yıldız is on the agenda. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene will be brought up: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept it... the motion of the gene is not accepted. Now, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (February 10th 2015) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
