tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 48th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel (Islamic) who asked for a comment on the problems caused by the high tension lines and in general by high tension lines in Istanbul. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all a good day. Mr. President, we started fast, General Board. Yes, as you mentioned, I'm going to refer to the high tension line that lives in Istanbul's Esenyurt, which eliminates the right to live, but before that, after Yasar Kemal, the survivor, Fikret Otyam has a serious health problem, and we wish both of our valued authors health. Dear lawmakers, good things are not happening in our country, unfortunately, but in spite of what we've been through, good things are happening in our neighbors, good things are happening. In the south, in Kobane, on the other side of the Aegean, in Greece, the peoples unite, join forces, join hands; they stand up against imperialism, capitalism, war, exploitation, and the system that eliminates human values. In Greece, as you know, the left coalition has achieved a great success. The peoples of Greece held hands against the siege of the European Union, the IMF, and the major banks. Now, I believe they will stand behind this success and continue to march against the capitalist system in Greece for the unity of working peoples. Then came the news: Kurdish women, who had won the world's heart, love, against the ISIS gangs who were trying to drown the Rojava revolution, showed great solidarity and unity, and their youth fell, and they gained a great victory there in spite of the forces behind the gangs, in spite of those who said, "They have fought against the forces behind the gangs; to live the revolution in Kobane, to build a new society in Kobane, new, democratic, free, and equal. We celebrate them, we salute them. Something we'll salute again, of course, over 15,000 metal workers who have decided to strike for their child's future, for their sweat, for their labor rights, for their children's future. Metal workers decided against a three-year contract and a non-responsive exploitation scheme to grow their bread in the face of the impositions of MESS, and to work for a 100 lira raise over $866. This strike will be a huge resistance, not only for metal workers, but for all Turkish workers, workers, peoples, and what must be done ahead of us. I wish them all the best. I salute the metal workers from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, yes, those who have spent a lifetime of blood and sweat are now on their feet. We need to question the Department of Energy in the face of all this progress. In this system, the ministry does not only take the lives of the underground, but it continues to take life on the ground, especially because of the understanding and production disorders in these high-volume transmission lines. Our constituency area is Istanbul Esenyurt, an important part of Istanbul, where there are migrant workers, workers, and workers, especially in two neighborhoods, Saadedere and Namık Kemal. In October 2013, Eren Eroglu, a young worker who arranged a sign, lost his life because of contact with the high tension line. A few days ago, on 21 January, a 37-year-old factory worker Haydar Sarı died the same way. Transport lines in the 1960s now pass through the city due to distorted construction. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, these are the views of the electrical fences that pass through the neighborhood of Esenyurt. The Ministry has a responsibility here, and the City Hall has a responsibility. Now, the Ministry, which must have the right to live, the right to the city, the healthy future, must move these lines underground immediately, without delay. These deaths must end now because of the twisted routing and construction. The Chamber of Energy Engineers related to TMMOB makes similar findings. Not just in the right of life, but in the electromagnetic areas where these lines cross, children get blood cancer, leukemia, cells are poisoned one after another. This has got to stop. Let's not invest in Ranta, let's invest in human life, let's invest in the future of our children. I'd like to point out the responsibility of the Ministry. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça, who wants to talk about the problems of Balıkesir Province. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath on Balıkesir's problems. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, look, Balıkesir has, unfortunately, always lost during the AKP's reign. What did he lose? He had a SECA, a $54 million SECKA factory, sold for $1.1 million, and Balıkesir lost the SECA. The SECA is still, at this moment, unknown, unproductive... Balıkesir lost this. He lost Bandırma Harbor. An investment of $175 million has been promised, but not a nail has ever been struck. Look, Balıkesir -- his investments in the government -- received 42.22% of the taxes in 2014, while this fell to 31.1000 in 2015. Dear MPs, there is a Susurity Sugar Factory in Balıkesir. The workers who have worked at this Susurity Sugar Factory for 27 years still can't retire. How can a temporary worker not retire as a seasonal worker for 27 years? The AKP's power has taken a heavy blow to regional agriculture, keeping the Susurluk Sugar Factory at bay, and the problem continues. Look, we've already warned here that Balıkesir Bandir is paying 25 percent of the white meat production. There was a Candy Chick there. Before Sugar Chick went bankrupt, we warned the High Assembly and the Minister that they would get VAT from here, and we said, "If these VATs are not paid, Sugar Chicken will go bankrupt, there will be bankruptcy in the sector." Look, I was in Bandirma yesterday; 1,700 workers who were thrown out of Candy Chick, all of whom are suffering family disasters because of their debt to banks, their children's tuition. They're listening to us in Bandirma, the valued MPs, our 1,700 workers have not received their severance pay in two years, unfortunately. The bosses took it, everyone lived comfortably, but the bill was paid to the worker. Look, again, Eti Bor Aş was in Bandirma, the General Directorate. His efforts to privatise the meat from the edge of the Etite Pipe, such as the subcontractor, the redevans system, continue with the privatisation of the meat pipe or the subcontractorization of some services. Dear MPs, the Land Mahullar Office was the farmer's black-day friend, where he wrote, and the Land Mahuller Office in the Bandırma region was shut down and handed over to the farmer again, to the merchant, to the merchant, to the loan shark. Not only that, now Balıkesir, but 1/100 in Çanakkale. It's a thousand-alarm plan, my dear friends, 1/100. It's a thousand. In 2006, the plans moved to 35,000 acres. I'm asking: 1/100. Before the plan was set for the 5,000-alarm plan, in 2006 -- this plan was set just last year -- who took 35,000 acres of land from the villagers? I'm asking the Minister, he says he can't answer me for privacy. Ya, there are 35,000 acres in the land, and there are some industrialists in Bandirmah. Based on whom, on whom did he buy this place? Did he know there was going to be an industrial site? Of course he knew. Let me ask you one more time, who took them? Balıkesir says there's been a drink of arsenic in 60 districts of Turkey, Mayor of the Metropolitan. Guys, do you know who this friend is? Twelve years here, deputy chair of power, vice president. So, you just found out that this country's water is toxic, that it's arsenic? This is the painting in Balıkesir. I also have a promise from here to Balıkesir MP Babushcu. I'd like to address the modern-looking, reign-obsessed Tülay Babushcu, who swore honor and honor to the secular and democratic republic and described it as a 90-year-old commercial in the 600-year-old Ottoman Empire: would you be here today if it weren't for that republic? If it wasn't for the republic, would the Prime Minister be here? If it weren't for the republic, would Recep Tayyip Erdoğan have been President, and you would have been MPs here? Therefore, the republic is not a commercial break. Look, that was before the commercial. It was the tearing of the Sevr map, the equality of men and women, the creation of the modern republic, the republic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I say to you, take your place from Balıkesir to Babushcu, the city of Kuvasimimiye.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Mustafa Sahin (Matatya) who wants to talk about investments in Malatya. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise of investments in our Malatya. Malatya is a rare province that continues to evolve with change. During Seljuk's time, our province, which is a place of peace and peace, never gave a premium to terror and terror organizations. With the particular sector's intense preference for these ideas, we can easily see the intensity of commercial life in our 1st, 2nd and 3rd organised industrial region. Our Malatya is in the investment programme in 2014, with a total of 470 projects from different sectors, and the total amount of these projects is 3 billion 955 million TL. Dear lawmakers, with 33 new schools in our province in 2014 included in the system, the number of students per classroom falls below the Turkish average. Malatya has a special basin in agricultural areas, especially where its apricot is grown, thanks to its unique fluoride. Malatya, we also see that the number of policies in Malatya province has increased by over 100 per cent compared to the previous year, so that the plant will not be a victim of our farmer's frosting. In 2002, the agricultural loan used $4m in loans in our province, while in 2014 the total loan exceeded 140m euros. Despite the increase in return rates in agricultural loans in our province, it rose to 98.4 percent in 2013 when it was 24 per cent in the Agriculture Bank in 2002. From 2003 to today, 123,000 acres have been watered by facilities completed in the irrigation area. With 14 of our ponds being finished and in the planning and project phase 13 of our ponds, we also see that 281,000 per cent of water will be met with the result of watering projects with the Yoncan and Alika dams. Since Malatya has sufficient water resources, the biggest difference in many provinces is that we have to convert every source of water that flows into production and added values. In addition, the amount of roads divided by 36 kilometers before 2002 is expected to exceed 400km, along with those currently being completed. In 2013, our exports increased from $402m to 406m euros in 2014. Hopefully, in 2015, we'll be trying to bring our province higher and higher with new goals. Dear friends, in order to achieve their goals of 2023, not only to be satisfied with investments in our province, but also to ensure that, in 2017, the reserves of the Divrician iron-steel mines run out of reserves are among the attractive centers of our Malatya province, a region of reserves, and that our railways are restored and restored in the Republic of the Republic. We are also waiting for a second state university to be built at the Battalgazi compound where we have proposed the law. We see that there is a potential in our districts of Battalgazi and Darende, which are important in faith tourism in our province, which is of serious importance in health tourism. Also, my friends, we've seen a plague, especially recently called Charlie Hebdo, raise the Muslims of the world. We are unwaveringly opposed to any form of terrorism, and we never approve of the attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine and the murders committed. Besides, it's impossible for Muslims to come together with terrorism, but it's also possible that we should not remain silent in the struggles of salvation for their occupied land. We are also well aware of the role of the shed West. However, the West has demonstrated the insult to the Prophet as freedom of press and freedom of thought, and has been able to target our great religion and show great disrespect to the entire Islamic world. We strongly condemn the magazine Charlie Hebdo, who attacks the values of Muslims, and all media organizations and supporters with extensions in Turkey. We also expect that while millions of our people are being slaughtered on Earth, in Egypt, in Arakan, in Turkey, Syria, in Somalia, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, the West will not remain silent and that the West and its intellectuals should not remain silent about the killings, especially in the Muslim countries, while we, along with the West, mourn the events of the West, should not remain silent about the massacres, especially in Israel. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek received an official visit to France on 28-30 January 2015 with a parliamentary delegation to respond to the event of French National Assembly President Claude Bartolone, and was accepted in the 13/1/2015 General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of France. The names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. 4) Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar Şanlıurfa It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a resignation statement from the parliamentary research commission, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning my position as a member of the Assembly Research Commission, which aims to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the causes of female violence. With all due respect, I do. 27.01.2015 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of its ecological properties, we would like to order the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, which should be protected by the integrated thermal plant and the planned nuclear power plant to be established, to investigate the environmental damage to the environment, to investigate the measures and to prevent the problems that could be created. 1) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[40s.]] [[Sinop]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Manisa]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 18) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 23) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 24) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] The TED process has begun to build an integrated thermal plant for our country in Pinikada, where its ecological properties are prominent with its natural and tourist values in Demirköy of 40lari. The name of the region also stands out for the nuclear plant to be built in Turkey. The Longoz Forests are first in Europe and first in the world in one piece. It's the lifeblood of the region. According to scientific reports, the judge will contaminate natural resources in Longoz Forests and water sources, where the northern winds should be guarding all chimney gases. In addition, damaging these forests is contrary to international treaties and actions by the ministries themselves. Turkey's Tourism Strategy (2023) Action Plan says "The research and planning of 10 new tourist cities will be completed." "The City of Eco-Turism" is first in line. According to the Ramsar Convention, which we side with, the Longoz Forests must be taken into international protection by the end of the year. 1/100. According to the Trekian Sub-Tracian Ergene Basin Revision Environment Plan, it is also considered among the areas in which nature and sports tourism will be developed. 1/25. The 5,000-scale plan also states that the Tekaada-Bayköy resorts will be regarded as "eko-turism." Turkey's Tourism Strategy (2007-2013) Action Plan (2007-2013) counts as Needleda, Black Sea yacht tourism centres, and yacht tourism is envisioned to develop from Needleda to Hopa. As part of the "Biological Variance and Natural Life Management" project signed by the Ministry of Environment and Forest-World Bank at 01/08/2000, the World Bank of Global Environment (GEF) contributed $8.2m and the Forest Ministry contributed $3.2m. In addition, the EU's "TR 06 0216 Project for the Protection and Sustainability of Biological Variability in the Star Mountains" was implemented in December 2008 in December 2009, when the EU's programme was supported as part of Bulgaria-Turkey Border Co-operation, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry; the General Directorate of Nature Protection and National Parks and the Forest General Directorate co-ordinating of the Black Sea. Moreover, the establishment of power plants in this region violates international agreements, such as the Biological Variety Convention (Rio Conference), the Black Sea Protection Convention on Pollution, and the long-term Convention on Extreme Air Pollution. Since the plant is close to the Bulgarian border, experts say it will cause serious international difficulties in the future. Also, according to scientific reports, the ash in the silos of the thermal plant will blend into underground waters, release poison, end fishing in the region, cause lung disease, and tourism will end. There's no need to pass on the more serious risks that the nuclear power plant will create. For these reasons, the parliamentary research commission must be established to determine the environmental damage of the integrated thermal plant and the planned nuclear power plant to be established in Needleda, to investigate the measures to be taken, and to prevent problems that could be created. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly During the period of your government in Turkish Airlines, it has been widely occupied by the public and visual media that you have brought to power during the period of your government, as if it were a family business by hiring your own friends and relatives, and that your relatives have been placed before many citizens, and that their relatives have been employed without any criteria. In order to determine and investigate allegations of family relations, we respectfully announce the opening of the Parliamentary Research Commission under the Articles 104, 105, of our Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter. [[Artvin]] 2) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ardahan]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Let's go.]] 16) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 18) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Yalova]] [[Erzincan]] 26) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 32) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] The AKP has a farm in its column dated 14/10/2012; THY... The article titled "Topian Airlines" states that Hamdi Topçu, the chairman of the board of directors, and the executive staff of his relatives, are using THY as the AKP's farm, giving him the single name of how the THY administration and the TGS administration are staffed, unfairly hiring their wife and friend. AKP İstanbul Governor Aziz Babushçu's nephew Kadir Babushcu THY works as head of accounting at TGS providing ground services... As a relative of TGS (Turkish Ground Service) Director Bajram Özcelik, Can Özçelik, Ahmet Kemal Özçelik, Ali Haydar Özçelik, Ayhan Özçelik, Ayşe Özçelik, Hüseyin Emre Özçelik and Recep Özçelik... A brother-in-law of TGS Director-General Bajram Özçelik, Mehmet Fat, has been promoted to chief of staff at the General Manager's Office... I understand that Mehmet Fatty is working at Sabiha Gökçen Airport with a relative named Turgay Fat... Director of Information Technologies Kamil Kartal is a close relative of General Manager Bajram Özçelik. At Turkish Airlines, the Turkish Ground Service (TGS), where torpedoed secondary school and high school graduates are chief and university graduates are employed as officers... Rize has been working with the AKP as a job-finding agency for the AKP's Çayeli municipality, THY and TGS... The son of AKP Rize Province Chairman Hikmet Hakmet's son, Yusuf Alperen Saqat, was first transferred to TGS and moved from there to THY... Katibe and Enes Gunny, who worked at TGS, were uncles with their fathers, and his uncles Katibe and Enes Topçu, Mehmet Demirkapu, who also served as director of the THY... As for Eyüp Sultan Gunçu, he served as the Chief Trade Officer of the London THY Directorate... Kamil Kartal's daughter Hayrye Kartal, worked as an officer in the Administration of Management Systems... Kamil Kartal's son, Fatih Furkan Kartal, works in the same place for a time and then leaves this place willingly, while many relatives, friends and friends, as if it were a family company, occupying the TGS and the public of THY. In light of the above issues stated, the family company is established in Turkish Airlines and TGS (Turkish Ground Service). It is important for the future and institutional identity of THY and TGS to be seen and identified by a Parliamentary Research Commission to establish its claims. Many citizens' rights were seized during the entry, and Hamdi Gunçu, Bayram Özçelik and many AKP executives' relatives were hired unconditionally as if they were farms. In order to determine the alleged irregularities, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 104, and 105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Remote education is an important and promising approach to education in the world. We propose and propose the opening of the Constitutional Constitution on the request for remote education and research on this subject under Articles 104, 105 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter. [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Yozgat]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Slap]] [[Antalya]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] 19) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Elazığ]] [[Mughle]] In modern times, computer and Internet age, change and development in knowledge and technology also completely change our lives. All information has now become accessible and renewable. People from all over the world are communicating with each other through Internet networks, sharing information. Computers have become an essential part of our lives. In parallel with this change, computer literacy has come to the agenda, and computer education has begun to be weighted in schools in order to respond to this need. The education systems have also begun to take advantage of the opportunities provided by computers, and the "extreme education system " of our age has begun to develop. Remote education is the educational system in which teachers and students are geographically separated. The origin of modern - distant education in the world is based on letter teaching. The first remote study begins with an ad published in the United States in 1728. In this ad, a teacher calls students who will send weekly course notes to "Steno (dactilo) lessons." The development stages of remote education are parallel to the development of technology. Remote training from the letter continued with the use of radio and television and became a "web-based" educational system, where personal computers and Internet use today. Remote education programmes that serve students who can't continue to train face-to-face for various reasons also contribute to the equality of opportunities in education by reaching more students in higher education. For those who do not complete their education because they have to work, they are entitled to education for women who are left out of their education because of gender discrimination, for those who are physically disabled, for prisoners. Throughout their lives, individuals get a second chance to regain their education by remote training, where they can't continue their studies for reasons such as family or economic obstacles, health problems, lack of educational institutions in the area in which they live; they continue to study without leaving their homes, without interrupting their professional lives. The countries of the world are directing remote training studies as far as their technological infrastructure allows. In this direction, the number of units that provide remote training throughout the world is increasing. As scholarships can be provided in these schools, there are departments and programmes that can be chosen entirely in relation to the student's financial situation. None of the remote education schools in Turkey have scholarships. However, there is an example of this in established schools in the United States. The main institute of higher education representing remote higher education in our home is the University of Anadolu University School of Open Education. It is one of the most experienced mass-study higher education institutions in the world, given other examples of our distinguished and radical higher education institution. As a result, remote education is an important and promising educational approach to the world. The demand for remote education and research on this subject are increasing day by day. The study of the subject by the TBMM will provide activity in all areas of education, particularly at higher education institutions. Our motion is prepared for this purpose. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 28/01/2015 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 335th order of the Law Bill, which is part of "Objects From Commissions and Proposals," is in the 5th place of this section; and the 683-trial Bill, which was distributed under duresss, is again in the order of the 6°nth place, and the order of the other tasks is in accordance with this order. On Thursday (January 29th), 2015, its proposal number 683 is to continue its work until the completion of its talks; on Friday (January 30, 2015), except on Friday (January 30, 2015), when its talks were not completed. The meeting at 00 and the meeting of the "Objects Other Affairs From Commissions With Law and Proposals" in this merger, and the continuing work of Bill 683 until the completion of the talks of its talks, 03, 10, 17 and 24 February 2015 on Tuesday (February 2015) the talks of verbal questions and other audit issues, which are not discussed on the agenda of "The Bill of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," 04, 11, 18 and 25 February 2015 Wednesday, where verbal questions were not discussed, February 03, 2015, 15:00-24 in Tuesday's merger. 00; 04 and 05 February 2015 - 2400-24 on Wednesday and Thursday. Between 00 hours, 10th, 17th and 24th February 2015, Tuesday's combination of 15th and 21st. Between 00 hours; 11, 12, 18, 19, 25 and 26 February 2015, Wednesday and Thursday, 2400-21. Between 00 hours; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of the Law of 683 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form, It's recommended. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0007par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 48th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Since there's been a change in the Justice and Development Party group proposal that's just been read, I'm going to reread the proposal and process it this way: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 28/01/2015 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 335th order of the Law Bill, which is part of "Objects From Commissions and Proposals," is in the 5th place of this section; and the 683-trial Bill, which was distributed under duresss, is again in the order of the 6°nth place, and the order of the other tasks is in accordance with this order. On Thursday (January 29th), 2015, he continued his work until the completion of his talks with Bill 683. 03, 10, 17 and 24 February 2015 on Tuesday (February 2015) the talks of verbal questions and other audit issues, which are not discussed on the agenda of "The Bill of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," 04, 11, 18 and 25 February 2015 Wednesday, where verbal questions were not discussed, 03, 10, 17 and 24 February 2015 in Tuesday's joint, 15:00-21. Between 00 hours; 04, 05, 11, 12, 18, 19, 25 and 26 February 2015, 2400-21 on Wednesday and Thursday. Between 00 hours; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code of the Law of 683 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form, It's recommended. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0008par0024	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute your grand delegation. Our group proposal includes proposals for the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the working hours of February. According to this, there is an international contract on South Africa, and since it is urgent, we recommend that we put it on the fifth place today. Again, we plan to start negotiations with the Law Bill, which has been changed in the Mining Law -- which was taken and distributed yesterday -- in order of the 6th place today. Tomorrow, on Thursday, it is recommended to work until the end of the Mining Law. The removal of oral questions on Tuesdays and Wednesdays in February is 3:00-21 on Tuesdays. 00, Wednesdays and Thursdays, we again recommend that he work between 2:00 and 9:00 p.m. As you know, yesterday, dear friends, the Law on Veterinary Services was not enough to vote on. Now, after the vote of this group's proposal, hopefully, after we vote on it and then discuss the international contract on South Africa, we plan to start negotiations with the Mining Law and finish it tomorrow, if there's a chance. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0009par0032	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0010par0036	Mr. President, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party Group. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our country has very important problems, very important problems. It is possible to solve these problems under the House's roof, but it is possible for Turkey to do what the most advanced country has implemented in whatever law the world has adopted. However, it does not happen in our country by the laws imposed by the ruling party, depending on its permanent majority. We here, as opposition parties, speak of the wrongs done with our power, that are being watched and seen by the whole world, but unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party Group brings in their own laws, one after the other, by offering majority votes as if they were a requirement of democracy. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has lost its reputation in the outside world. Turkey has no neighbours, no peace with its neighbours. Raising Turkey's reputation depends on the Justice and Development Party's giving up that stance. Today, Turkey, our Deputy Prime Minister, is taking a test in the United Nations, Geneva, yesterday; the precious MPs cannot be answered in the sweat of blood. A lot of laws are being discussed here, and whatever we say in opposition comes out one by one. Look, today Turkey has become a country where the United Nations Universal Periodic Study Agency is being questioned twice a year, and you will see its note in the following days, in the report. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc cannot answer questions asked at present and yesterday's meetings. Look what happens to him one by one: In the independence of the judge, Turkey is far behind. They call it. Answer me this. The answer to that can't be answered. Children's rights violations are seen far below the world's universal standards for children the world cares about, and the answer is not available. Violence against a woman has become the first country in the world, my dear friends, with increasing women's murders every day, with women who have been killed or injured. You can't prevent them. They ask us. Internet, freedom of speech, the most sensitive subjects in the world. The Deputy Prime Minister is trying to explain to your Deputy Prime Minister why 31 arrested or convicted journalists in Turkey were imprisoned there, they don't understand, we have freedom of expression, we can't understand the fact that only one journalist stays inside, that he's a prisoner. They call it the rule of law. Look, in the previous years here, we passed an Ombudsman Act, we passed the Human Rights Foundation Act. We've told you from here it's against the Paris Principles. You take them off, but the United Nations won't accept them. Now the Deputy Prime Minister of the United Nations is answering for them. You need to adapt your Ombudsman institution, your Human Rights Foundation, within the framework of my dear friends and the Principles of Paris. The Deputy Prime Minister is being severely criticised. Turkey's report, which will be published in the coming days, will be presented in front of us as a very painful and exemplary picture of Turkey facing severe human rights violations. It's all because of power, valued lawmakers. You didn't do what we said when all these laws came out, you always used them to your own power. Now, there's an internal security package that went through the Internal Affairs Commission. I want to give you all a historical warning: this law, called the internal security package, is like a bomb in the hands of Turkey. It is not the law that the whole modern world accepts this law, where all personal freedoms in Turkey, basic rights and freedoms are severely restricted, given extraordinary powers to governors, police. Let's not accept this law because of the understanding of freedom and freedom of our own people, not because the whole world won't accept it, dear friends. You want to create your own security, you want to build your own armed forces. By that law, you give the Home Secretary the authority to appoint the commanders of the gendarme regiments in the provinces and the commanders of the gendarmes in the counties. Dear lawmakers, what are you talking about in a place where the judiciary depends on running, running the entire police force, running some of the Armed Forces? Democracy will be nameless. Turkey is moving towards dictatorship as fast as it can. Please listen to this historic warning. Withdraw this law, this law will stand before us in Turkey as a law that forces civil peace and will cause conflicts in Turkey. So, even in the simplest peaceful demonstration, if you give the police and the governor extraordinary powers, if you eliminate the judiciary, you can never speak of the protection of democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey. Turkey is going through major exams. They call it justice, they call it the rule of law. Look, three years ago, there was an incident in Uludere, and 34 of our citizens were killed. Until now, the ruling speakers have made presentations, giving speeches, saying, "This will not remain in the dark places." Recently, my dear friends, on behalf of your government, on behalf of the Justice Department, a response to the individual application of victims' families in the Constitutional Court has also emerged, unfortunately, the position of power. In this article sent by the Ministry of Justice in my possession, power considers the event in Uludere a reasonable event, my dear friends. Is that possible? ▪ He agrees with the inescapable interpretation of the error. ▪ Inevitable error and a reasonable event. • It is not acceptable to accept it. The blood of 34 of our citizens is still on the floor. I'm calling on the power speakers to withdraw this defense. This defence will not remain in the dark zones of your power until now. It is an inscription that documents exactly the same word. It is a defense. With this defense, the nation is asked to be transferred to the dark zones. You have no right. It is our duty to satisfy 34 young men -- their dismembered body -- their mothers, their fathers' burned hearts, their sense of justice. All deaths are pain. In all deaths, everyone, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, has the right to demand that everyone be tried, no matter who the perpetrator is. Why are you holding him back from Uludere? The families are in court, and they still haven't taken a step. Again, the Deputy Prime Minister is told in Geneva yesterday that many people have been killed, many have been killed. The Deputy Prime Minister answers: The court has sentenced Ali Ismail (Ismail) to ten years in the trial. The court in the case of Ali İsmail Korkmaz has sentenced him to death, not for manslaughter, but for deliberate injury. Imagine a human body standing on the ground, being subjected to dozens of kicks, dozens of violence, dozens of sticks, and it's described as a wound. Is that even possible? Turkey will become prisoners of them, my dear friends. Let's not drag our Turkey to the gates of the Court of Human Rights, let's establish justice. The human being of Turkey is worthy. The people of Turkey have the same right and equal share of justice as the people of every region; so do the people of the Gezi, and so do those who die in Cizre. We're not talking about Cizre. What happened in Cizre? Seven of our citizens were killed the week before, who shot them, who killed them, not yet known. Police bullets coming out, he's hiding. Then it turns out it was a police bullet. My dear friends, human life isn't that free. We need to convict our people of an understanding that destroys one by one in such dark relationships, in dark games. It's the only way we can clear Turkey's path. The public is waiting to be enlightened about the events in Cizre. Dear lawmakers, we are willing to support the community at every point we see in its best interests, but we are always here for the firmness of power. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0011par0058	Thank you. Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who has asked for a word against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0012par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised against the AKP group proposal. This, of course, is not something we've just encountered, but we're seeing a similar one now. This, frankly, is the lack of planning, lack of programming, incompetence of the majority party that has an obligation to run the Assembly General Assembly. In this case, of course, our repeated warnings have yet to be considered. Dear friends, a bill of the Ministry of Agriculture will soon be passed by the General Assembly. However, this law is not enough to negotiate, especially from demands passed on to opposition lawmakers. As of yesterday, opposition lawmakers, MPs from the National Movement Party have repeatedly expressed to the Ministry of Agriculture the problems of Turkish farmers and peasants, but thank God we have a Minister of Agriculture who has received the Knight's Order from the Turkish farmer, the peasant, and not from the French government to those serving France. Sir, let me take advantage of every criticism of the opposition. Let's hear it, let's see if they have any suggestions or suggestions. Instead of making such an effort, they have an answer. It's not like this world, not the men of this country, Mr. Secretary, but when we listen to the members of the government, it's all very bright. Our farmer is living in the golden age, sir, our peasant has no problem. His colleagues, dear friends, have suffered over 70,000 agricultural, food, water products, fishing technology engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians, technicians. I'm sure it's not just the opposition lawmakers, it's getting to you and the ruling party lawmakers. On the one hand, these educated people are waiting to be appointed to serve, and they are called "no work." On the other hand, unplanned universities, educational institutions continue to give thousands of graduates every year in the area where they are told there is no work. Again, while there is a serious unemployment problem in the country, Mr. Davutoglu, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, send your unemployed to Europe. He says, "We don't seem to have any unemployment problems." Really, he's messing with himself, he's messing with people, it's not clear. Either this country's name is not Turkey, it's dear friends, or these ministers must be ministers of another country. The Agricultural Ministry purchases are extremely inadequate; although there have been small-scale purchases for the Ministry in the last ten years, these are very low numbers for a country that has now converted its food, its product into imports. There are no agricultural engineers, no vets, but there are imported animals, imported hay, imported wheat. Without knowledge, the farmer is also unaware of technological advances, still striving to farm and feed from the father and grandfather. You can't tell the farmer to buy services. He's already got nothing left so he can go to private clinics, sir, private offices and ask for it. Food engineers are also extremely troubled; food inspections, sir, food poisonings are the most important issue in the country, but the state doesn't have enough food engineers to control it. For technicians and technicians, it's really a revelation. In subcontractors, they try to employ minimum wage in matters that have nothing to do with their education. As the National Movement Party, we reiterated our proposal to the Ministry of Agriculture to make sure that those professions, especially those in the technical staff's capacity, are more employed at the Ministry. If he asks for a contribution from the opposition, if he wants a support from the National Movement Party, we also say that we will give our agricultural engineers, food engineers, technicians and technicians all the support we can provide. Again, another issue, valued lawmakers, has been expressed as to the problems of the manufacturer's troops in the discussion of this law, but as I said, touch these troops and hear a thousand ahs. They said, "The troubles are on the verge." Friends, the duration of the discussion of this law is never enough to address these problems or to come up with a solution. For example, there are fruit makers' troops. They've asked us to address some of the issues, and I'll tell you right away: President Ismet Topal Bey sent a request for the Board of Directors of the Union of the Osmaniye Dzezici Fruit Manufacturers. He wants this on the agenda of the General Assembly. Here, of course, we have Isparta MPs. Isparta, as you know, is the capital of the core fruit, the production of apples in Turkey, 25 percent of the total production in Turkey, one out of every four apples that come to your table, isparta, precious friends from Isparta, production of apricots, eight percent of the cherry production again, 13 percent of the cherry production. In this regard, the fruit producers' troops are much more important to Isparta than all cities. Fruit producers have conditioned their troops to have pre-committee fiscal audits done by sworn financial advisors through a law issued by the AKP in 2011. Once, dear friends, in every county, especially in small cities, there's trouble finding sworn financial advisors. Even if you find it, these troops, who are incapable of paying for electricity and water, are being asked to pay $3.5 billion in audit money, dear friends. I'd like to remind you that these troops are voluntary troops, that they're trying to survive with dues. On the one hand, it's really a unit that's trying to survive, and on the other hand, sir, an agricultural-friendly, agricultural-friendly minister running around claiming to be an agricultural friend. This compulsion, which is not imposed on other troops, is an injustice, dear friends to the fruit makers' troops. Either remove the under-secure audit, or at least bring it in for troops that are above a certain budget. And let's also ensure that membership in fruit producers' units, as in other manufacturers' units, should be forced to receive support premiums. Why? Because in representational democracies, the foundation of organization is extremely important. I think the state should make sure that fruit producers bring in this membership requirement to protect their union and ensure their development. Once again, agricultural land costs by an acre, but precious friends are calculated for a cost and maintenance per tree in the orchards. If you think there's an average of 400 trees in a ten-year-old and 10-acre garden, they're given $4.6 in mazotta, $6 in fertilizer, valuable friends, $10.6 in an acre. It's really a joke, it's supposed to be at least 150 to 160 liras. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you another freak: Our Ottoman MP is asking a question about the disaster and the loss of lives in the mine area after the Ermenek disaster. The ministry responds, dear friends, the Ministry of Labor has done year-to-year transcripts; 2011, 2012, 2013, but in 2014, valuable friends have set a time period between June and September, giving them these figures. Dear friends, why? Because Soma and Ermenek don't want to give the numbers because when they give the numbers, the numbers will explode. Dear friends, this is an absolute ukulele trick; it means to underestimate the nation, the opposition; dear friends, this is a disrespect to the national will, not only the opposition, but the will of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. I mean, he's trying to trick me, and we're obviously not fooled. I'd really like to ask you on behalf of the nation, Dear Minister, do you think you'll find peace by concealing these numbers? I mean, how is that any different from the ostrich who buried his head in the sand? Where's the civil service, the seriousness, the dignity, the honesty, we have to question that. Dear friends, these figures will be studied more carefully by the opposition from now on. We don't have any trust left. We knew you didn't answer the questions the opposition had asked until now, but we saw that you were giving the wrong numbers on purpose, so we've been watching you. I salute the great nation.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0013par0080	Thank you. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0014par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, dear congresswoman friends, as of Wednesday, as the EC PARTY Group, we have brought a group proposal for the agenda of the House and also for the duration of its work. This group proposal, the previous group proposals, and the group proposals that we will bring back after this, is all about the issues on our nation's agenda. So, as our people's demand, expectations, hopes, as the Parliament, as the ruling group, especially as the EC PARTI, we, as our people, will continue to make suggestions for the development of our people in a more comfortable environment for solving problems, unity, brotherhood, justice and the development of our nation, and in the same way, after that, we will continue to make suggestions for the development of Turkey. Because today, we will all discuss here a very important law, the Mining Law, which the miners have been waiting for, which will solve the problems of both employers and workers, workers, especially at this point. And while we were discussing it, we discussed it with other opposition party groups yesterday, and we said we'd bring it up today and tomorrow. So, our desire, our wish, is to see the sensitivity of opposition at this point, at any point that will solve our nation's problems in matters that our nation expects. Especially dear friends today, of course, many things have been expressed here, perhaps, but I would like to use a series of expressions at the point where, along with the EC PARTI, twelve-two-and-a-half years of power, the rhetoric of the former Turkey would no longer be here, a growing, modernizing Turkey, where individual rights and freedoms are at the forefront, social integration, unity, unity, brotherhood should be developed at the centre of Turkey. Turkey is a state of law. If Turkey is a state of law, the duties of law enforcement and judges are defined in the Constitution, in the relevant laws. Under these laws, each person must carry out his duty within the framework of his own authority. Therefore, I would like to say that it is not right to expect to be pressured into the judiciary, especially at the point of the judiciary's view. Because over and over again, especially the issue of arrested journalists is always brought up. It was also brought up in Europe, and the Prime Minister was asked about it. Dear friends, how many people are in Turkey because of the journalistic mission alone, and only because of the article he wrote? I'd like to question this in particular.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0015par0091	Mr. Hidayet is inside.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0014par0092	I want those who try to collect politics on this to pay attention. Let everyone in particular know that no one in Turkey is secular, and no one is irresponsible. No matter who he is, his duty, his position, his position, whatever he says, the verb he's committed is a crime in the eyes of the law, it must be rewarded whether he's a journalist or not. Not because of the journalistic profession, but because of some other charges, theft, theft, other charges I can't count here, and if he's convicted of those crimes, dear friends, I'm sorry, I mean, there's no use to any of us getting up here and defending him. We're in no position to favor anyone here. Everyone who lives in this country must obey these laws. Thus, we, especially our fellow journalists, have made serious changes in many areas in the laws of our friends. At the point of no crime for his writing, we were the ones who allowed the crime to be postponed for five years. We're the ones who took away the barriers to freedom of speech. The steps we've taken towards democratization, the reforms we've made. If we're talking about what we couldn't talk about here yesterday, if we can do what we couldn't do yesterday, I'm sorry, folks, but we can't expect to get a little appreciation for what we've come up with in terms of where Turkey came from, but we can't at least bring the decent things that have been done to the public's agenda in a negative way. If there are negatives in the eyes of the judge, yes, let's do our part, let's do our part, let's do our part, let's go to justice.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0096	Did you leave judgment, Mr. Ahmet?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0014par0097	None of us can take care of wrong.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0098	You're a lawyer. Don't judge me!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0014par0099	Dear brothers, here again is a very heavy, very wrong expression. The Prime Minister of this country, the new Prime Minister of Turkey, is acting as Secretary General of the Council of Ministers regarding the new President of the EC PARTI. I strongly reject and condemn it.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0101	A man's ritual is a man's work! Take care of your seat, your seat!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0014par0102	In this country, both the Prime Minister and the President and the Council of Ministers are responsible for whom and whose duties and powers are evident in the Constitution, even in the Constitution, which we do not like, under the relevant laws.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0103	Take care of your seat!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0017par0104	Why did he hand over the Prime Minister's building, Ahmet Bey?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0105	Remind the President of the law!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0106	Friends, therefore, look, be a little proud of where your country is coming from.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0107	Remind the President of the needs of parliamentary democracy!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0108	Be proud, be proud. Open up to the Constitution, see who is in the Constitution and what is in it.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0109	The Constitution says the President is neutral. He still talks like the president of the AKP.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0110	If Mr. President says I'm going to use this task, and the Constitution has authorized the President to call the Council of Ministers at this point as needed, and that authority has once again been registered by the people beyond the Constitution on August 10th...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0111	Let the Constitution abide by it, President!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0112	Because I'm going to use these tasks. I will exercise the authority vested in me by the Constitution and by the law. I will no longer guard the status quo as President, rather than the blessing of the state, I will take care of all of Turkey's problems, which are the humanitarian centre, which is ahead of the nation. The President said.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0113	Did you leave a state in the middle, Mr. Ahmet? Is there a blessing left? You didn't leave a state!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0114	And Mr. President called a meeting of the Council of Ministers, setting a date to consult with Mr. Prime Minister. Can he call me in the next hour? The Constitution has given him that authority, and he can call and call again when he sees it, and he has that authority. Therefore, you need to open up and look at that Constitution once. You can't question anyone at this point, especially not the Prime Minister of your own country, the President of your country, that way I'm a nationalist. I blame it, I condemn it.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0115	Tell the President to respect the Prime Minister's law!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0116	Dear friends, the Prime Minister defends his own law.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0016par0117	I, as a congressman of the House, am stating the nature of the parliamentary system.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0118	The President upholds both his law and the Prime Minister's law.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0019par0119	He couldn't take care of the Prime Minister's building.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0120	It's not up to you to defend the Prime Minister's law, it's not up to you guys.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0020par0121	How come it's not up to us?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0122	Know your own standards, know your laws.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0020par0123	If he's not our Prime Minister, he's not our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0018par0124	Thus, in this country, each one will know his own rights, his own limits. Again, in the same way, friends, a lot has been expressed about the agricultural sector. I'll give you a few numbers. Between 1998 and 2002, I'm going to compare the processes of the AK PARTI administration with twelve, thirteen years of process. In 1998-2002, our domestic revenues were reduced by 34 per cent, down from 33.8 billion dollars to 23.7 billion dollars. What happened in our era? It went from $23.7 billion to 61 billion, up 156 percent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, per capita income in agriculture dropped from $1,450 to $1,064 during 1998-2002. What happened in our era? We got $1,064, raised it to $3,475, up 227%. We were fourth in Europe, you know, in agricultural revenues, and now we're number 1 in Europe. You dropped 20 percent from where you got it between 1998 and 2002 at the agricultural export point. At $5 billion down to $4 billion, we raised it from $4 billion to $17.7 billion, and the rate of increase is 338 per cent. Agricultural interest rates were 59 per cent in the Agriculture Bank, 69 per cent in agricultural loan co-ops, while we drew it from 0 per cent to 8.25 per cent. Again, the return rate of agricultural loans has increased, and our producer can now afford the loan. The return rate in 2002 was 38 per cent at the Agriculture Bank and 71 per cent on the agricultural loan. Our return rate has risen to 99 per cent at the Agriculture Bank, while agriculture has increased to 97 per cent in the loan. It's obvious who works, who doesn't work; who serves this country, this nation, this farmer, the farmer, the peasant, who doesn't; which is what I'm saying is that every election we go to is registered by the people, and I say, again, I salute you all with respect, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0021par0135	Tell me who's corrupting him. Who's corrupting, Mr. President? You've never touched corruption, Mayor!
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0022par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0023par0137	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0022par0139	Yes, 69...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0024par0141	They made a commitment to the IMF to remove the support.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0023par0142	Just a second, Congressman.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0025par0143	They signed it, signed it, in front of Cottarelli.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0023par0144	Congressmans, if you'd like to take a break, you can continue with the speeches. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0026par0146	Both sides have consent.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0023par0147	Please, Congressmans, please... The Deputy Director of the Group has spoken, and it's not clear why they're even talking about it. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0149	Mr. President, Your Honor, he has made a statement regarding my words that I have officially disrespected the Prime Minister. I want a promise.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0023par0150	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0153	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. Dear friends, one: Opposition, of course, will grant you the right to criticize. You have no obligation to answer every word of the opposition. The power only puts itself out there by its actions. So you have a problem with actions, which means you're trying to answer every word of the opposition.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0028par0155	You have to show some respect, some respect.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0156	Look, I'm telling friends who don't know, the lawyers know this very well: the Republic of Turkey has a regime that is subject to the parliamentary system. In the parliamentary system, the President is unauthorized and irresponsible. As you know, any decision the President has made is committed by the concerned minister and the prime minister.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0029par0157	He has authority, no responsibility.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0158	In fact, he's irresponsible, even by his own signatures.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0029par0159	But he has the authority.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0160	Dear friends, now, the people have chosen the president. He says, right, the people have chosen the President.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0030par0161	Who chose it? The people chose it, of course.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0162	I'm not saying anything, just calm down.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0030par0163	At 52 percent the people chose, brother, didn't they?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0027par0164	Take it easy, brother, take it easy. The people elected the President, but he didn't vote for the President of the Presidential System, or do you agree to join the presidential system? You didn't ask the President for authority. The President's powers are the same before the 2014 presidential election, and then the same. If you force this law, this framework of the Constitution, then you will have undermined the President's qualities and neutrality in Article 101 of the Constitution. This exceptional authority cannot be generalized, and when generalized, Mr. Erdogan is seen to have been especially burdened with opposition, such as the AKP's President, and the opposition is using the right to answer. Respect for the president is possible when the President acts under his authority first, and if he acts as the leader of a party, other parties treat him as the leader of the party. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0031par0168	There is authority, authority, authority according to Article 104 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0032par0169	Did you leave the Constitution, or did you leave the Constitution?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0033par0170	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0034par0172	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, deputy leader of the AKP Group, has announced that journalists who were arrested or convicted in Turkey have been arrested or convicted for other crimes, not as part of freedom of expression. I feel the need to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0033par0173	I can promise you your position, Mr. Sky. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0034par0177	Mr. President, in Turkey, especially the restrictions on freedom of expression and the arrest and conviction size of journalists facing -- the judicial dimension -- has now unfortunately raised Turkey to the first degree among countries in the world's most convicted and arrested in journalism. That's not something to brag about. Of course, the limits of freedom of expression are related to staying out of algebra and violence, but we know that many journalists today have been subjected to judicial harassment and threats because of what our friends have written, and we need to register that almost all 31 journalists are both prisoners and prisoners in prisons, without algebra or violence, as part of the freedom of expression. That is what is questioned, and no soul defends its own violence. But freedom of speech is a standard that the world, the United Nations, human rights organizations are looking for, and that's what we're against, is freedom of expression. I felt the need to make amends about it. The reason for the arrest or conviction of the journalists found inside is due to severe violations of the freedom of expression.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0033par0179	Thank you. Mr. Dağoğlu, you have a request for a word, what do you want to say?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0035par0181	Sir, while Mr. Levent Gök was speaking to the MP, Turkey is in a very bad situation regarding child's rights...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0033par0182	Mr. Dağoğlu, we're discussing an AK PARTY proposal, such as... please...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0035par0183	But, sir, they've made an opinion on child rights.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit02spe0033par0184	Thank you, sir. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Nevşehir MP Murat Gökturk has been nominated for 1 membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which has been ejaculated in the Commission for Parliamental Research for the purposes of Investigating the Reasons for Women Violence. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We're moving on to the agenda's part of the voting process. We will begin the open vote of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Feed Law Amendments in this section. The open vote has been approved with an electronic voting device. I'll give you five minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the clear vote of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Bait Law on Changes is: [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bayram Özçik Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Now, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehmet Mehdi Eker will give a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, the Veterinary Services, Veterinary Health, Food and Feed Law, has just been enforced by a vote. With this bill, both cattle breeding in Turkey and sheep breeding in goat breeding, both in manda breeding and in bee breeding, around 500,000 producers will be more organised in 81 provinces, and it will be possible to produce better services with the organisation of them. Of course, during the drafting of this bill and yesterday's session in parliament, we gave joint motions both with the main opposition Republican People's Party and with the National Movement Party and with the HDP (HDP), and I thank them very much for their contribution. In the joint effort of the parties, the bill was passed. I thank both our ruling party MPs and the opposition party MPs. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, need to be corrected only for the record during yesterday's talks, so I need to provide information at some point or two. First of all, we've been told that we're only doing comparisons with countries of the European Union -- in terms of regional size -- with small countries; that's not true. I did the comparison with France, with the largest agricultural producer country in Europe, with Italy, with Spain. In 2002, after France, Italy, Spain, Turkey was the fourth largest country in Europe in terms of agricultural product, ahead of others. In 2013, Turkey has received 61 billion dollars in revenues from France, Spain, Italy, and since 2008 -- not just 2013 -- the largest agricultural product in Europe. It was said that only the current prices were mentioned. No, I'm not just saying the current prices were 156 per cent in dollars, and about 28 per cent in fixed prices. And since I was told a few times yesterday, I need to fix it. That I was aiming at France for my aim, for my importing... which I had already submitted in Congress. If there was going to be an engagement on this, Turkey would have to give it to France. It's a triumph in the field of agriculture. Why do I say it? In 2011, Turkey exported $487m of food and agricultural materials to France, importing $3361m, over $126m in foreign trade. In 2012, we have $130m in foreign trade surplus. In 2013, we have an extra $197 million in foreign trade. So, please, let's not be unfair to Turkey, not to the Turkish farmer, not to the producer, not to Turkey's agricultural sector. So this award was given to me in 2012 as a knight in the field of agriculture because of my contribution to the G20 process and the contributions of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey to fight global hunger. That's why you imported it from there, and that's why it was given to you. It's unfair and it's damaging to Turkey. Now, Turkey is a net exporter in agriculture, not an importer. I'm just saying this over and over again for the record. With all the numbers, all the details, it's possible for me to tell you. According to Harmonize System, Turkey's agricultural export in 2002 was $3.8 billion, $17 billion in 2013. In Turkey's foreign trade balance, in wheat yesterday, sir, Turkey imports more wheat. It was said, "That's not true." Since 2002, Turkey's total imports have amounted to $10 billion, total exports amounted to $16 billion, or $6 billion more, when it sold to the world in Turkey's wheat trade. It was compared to the Netherlands. The Netherlands's own agricultural production is only $15 billion. He imports 76 billion dollars, exports it. We import and export in similar ways. Ours is called why do you import? But the Netherlands is applauded for its trade. I'd like to say that I'm not comfortable with that, too. Mr. Secretary, you know the law has been discussed. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER I just wanted to put it on the record. I salute you all. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the 3rd ranked Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks by the Dair Legislature Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place between the Turkish Republic and the Jordanian Hashimi Kingdom, where the Compulsors are eligible to ratify the Nakline Dair Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the 5th ranked Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement Against the Association of Two National Commissions between the Republic of South Africa. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 335 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey, the planning of the government of South Africa is to ensure the establishment of a joint international community. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 7 June 2012 in Ankara. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the National Commission between the government of the South African Republic was approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the vote did not have enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0033par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 48th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough meeting in the open vote of the entire Law Bill 335 rows. Now we're going to repeat the open vote with the electronic device. I'll give you five minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the National Commission between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of South Africa has decided that it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement between the National Commission and the Government of the Republic of South Africa: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with Kars MP İstaniya Birtane, Ankara MP Emine Gültur Tarhan, MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan's Law Proposals in Similar Property and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 683 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill. Mr. Sesame, your time is twenty minutes.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0036par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're all here today discussing a legal arrangement for mining. When we talk about the mining bill, I want to stress that our country has been through a difficult process as of 2014 and early 2015. Together with many accidents, we faced a disaster like Soma, which we never wanted to happen again in the world or in our country, and with it, the accidents of many other provinces, the fatal accidents, the negativeness of living all of them. First of all, I remember all of our miners, our miners, our engineers, and those who worked on this whole thing, those who lost their lives, with respect, mercy, gratitude, gratitude. May Allah show no more suffering and let the mining accidents end in this country. As you know, after such accidents, mining has become very controversial in many areas in the country. At first, all other issues related to occupational safety, labour health, running of mines, technology, licenses in mines, redevance and mining have been tabled, and have been seriously discussed at this table. In such an environment, Turkey's mining has lost considerable prestige. We're talking about the mining law by international institutions at a time when such deaths and accidents no longer occur in the world, but are subject to serious criticism from Turkey. The Soma Commission has been established for work on occupational health, health and occupational safety and these accidents. This Commission has done serious work. As a result of these studies, serious measures are ahead of us, reports from the Prime Ministerial Board of Control and all related reports. Now, with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's recommendation, another study is being done again. However, it is clear that when mining is being done in Turkey, the understanding of modern mining first needs to be foreseen by a mining understanding that people are working in mining, thinking about working conditions, job security, quality and human health; predicting a natural-compatible mining; the most efficient use of the country's resources; and while these are being done, it never leaves the control and arrangement of the state. After drawing such a framework, we expected that in this mining law, mining has been increasingly falling in terms of prices in the world and in our country lately. Despite its decline, our country imports nearly 60 billion minerals. It's an important business in its own sense. Turkey has resources in mining, it has a certain savings, it has serious institutions. With all these institutions, it is possible to manage the mining sector better under its circumstances. There could also be an effort to fulfill the missing with a legal arrangement, but this law has arrived. Turkey grew 4.1 last year from the growth rate of the mining sector to 4.8 in 2013. The bottom line of this reduction is the generalisation of all the regulations for all registrations and applications we call the June General Assembly. It's still in the middle, and there's no change in that sentence. This is a generalization that connects the state's authority at this point to one person and one hand. In an environment where this is the meaning of this sentence, there was a mining law. We have created a mining law, along with the opinions of engineers, geophysicists, technical elements, from elements that work in mining the sector's demands, and we have run the Commission for proposals that wait for it to come out of its position and improve. The commission's work has shown that compared with the bill and commission work, the bill has three points of view. One: With this bill, the Ministry of Energy has an understanding at the point of increasing revenues in order to prevent the decline of prices in mining and the decline in the state's revenues. He has an understanding at the point of increasing license fees, increasing state rights, and increasing similar financial revenues. Number two: I leave the ministry's understanding of who to give to in these matters, including the rights of registration and employment. That's the Ministry's basic approach to this. For him, issues related to the age of licenses and registrations were left to the Minister's approval, in this bill. Third, the issue of Redevans was an important issue in this law. At the conclusion of these accidents in Redevans, the state is largely withdrawing from public enterprises and the mining that it employs, and I'm in the private sector, and I'm in the private sector, and I'm in the mines that I'm handing over -- especially in coal businesses -- the logic of mining. However, he's doing the same thing with the audit. I give up my right to control as a state, by bringing in authorized corporate personality, by bringing in mine engineers, geology engineers, firms who have been raised in this area for years to build projects in the mine, by the permission of the Ministry, and all their rights to oversee, and so on. At this point, the bill came before our Commission. Dear friends, look, we've followed a method in the Commission study about this -- primarily the President of the Commission -- and I thank you for this method being followed -- we've made the industry talk, we've got the mining engineers talking, we've got the geology engineers talking. I'd like to share with you some of his lectures. Dear friends, Soma is an event that hurts and hurts and hurts all of us. I'd like to present this incident to you from an experienced miner, from his talks on the Commission. Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges Turkish Mining Parliament Speaker: "Everyone is expressing their regret in Soma. I'm the founder of the Soma Coal Company. President, but I was the founder 15 years ago, so I said it wouldn't work that way, so I quit. The first government in charge is here. In Soma, there is no coal, there is no money being raised from the ground. The coal we take out of our own licensed field is good for the government, buy it for half the price, it's a plant 500 meters away. No, we don't buy coal from the private sector. They said 15 years ago, at the point where you come in, you get your own coal out, you get your own coal out, you get your own, you get your own money. You seduce these people, and when that happens, of course, there's unclehood. Now, with this law, they carry this uncle to control the mines. Who's gonna get these companies tomorrow? It's an incredible arrangement. Ismet Közoğlu, the chairman of the TOBB Mining Council, says it, not me. Dear friends, do you know what this means? Today, the state has a very powerful organisation for mining and coal enterprises; Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation and ETI Mining Enterprises and other companies have serious savings. Soma is the main reason for mining in Soma. Let's not run it, let's give it to the subcontractor with redevans, and they'll do the sub-contractors and uncles to get it out, give us cheap coal. The logic is one of the fundamental mistakes in Soma. That logic came to this point when the result brought in insurmountableness. I also want to emphasize a dangerous point in this law: The same event may happen to Zonguldak. I warn you from here, the Ministry. The ministry, as in all cases, has a sense of how it's going to be when you walk away from it and turn it over to the private sector. It's a situation we can't participate in at all. The state has put into the Constitution the 168th article: "Manes are under the state's protection of natural resources. They must never give up the government's rule and savings over them, control and care, even if it is given to business, licensing. " According to this Constitutional clause, you should never be in a position to eliminate the function of the state in these mining businesses. That's a general logic in the sense that it's here at this point. In an accident, which will be handed over to the offices that you have assigned, we have no crime, they have jurisdiction, they were auditing. You come to the point where you can say, "You're also making sure that our engineer and our trained staff in mining in Turkey, through corporate personalities, make sure that they are more of an employee of a company than a mining engineer. These are one of the things that we criticize in this Mining Law. Again, specific steps have been taken regarding our criticism of the meeting and registration. The age of licenses must be under the strict permission of the Ministry; politics must come out of a selective and appointing situation in the mining field, except for national interests only. At this point, one of the dangerous points in this law is this. Dear friends, there is another logic, which I just told you, when the government passed this law, it made a mining policy on money, thinking of it more as the Ministry of Finance. Again, let me read you one of the talks of the Commission, which says that we have a friend from the sector representatives of the Commission: we have the General Directorate of Mines in our operating institution. It's been working importantly so far. What did we say? Instead of leaving it private, let's increase public authority and the power of the public. Let's give you a staff, develop the MEGEM, increase the number of engineers. Let both mining and control be required in these enterprises. When this law comes out, it's not preparation at this point, but it's more done in the words of sector representatives as well: look at this law, a friend of mine just told me. If the Ministry of Finance had brought in this law... some of it was brought in by the Treasury, but it seems a little absurd for the Ministry of Energy to bring it in. I'm sorry, but how do we get more money here? The Ministry of Energy is doing it instead of the Ministry of Finance. Dear friends, I'm resequencing what's in the spirit of this law: 1) To further develop mining by the power of the government, not by managing, but by avoiding responsibility, by redevance to the private sector; this is the first point. 2) Avoiding this sense of responsibility by giving control authority and rights through authorized offices to legally authorized corporate personalities. 3) In mining, it is based on increasing state rights, increasing registration fees, and increasing revenues in order to make more money. 4) Turning Redevans and new areas into the private sector and preventing the government from investing here at this point. The basic lack of energy ministry is that the public will make the investment. See, coal has been subsidized by the state for years in Germany. Right now, when you give up because you're subsidizing coal at Zonguldak, and you open those stoves to the private sector, you invite new accidents, new disasters. For him, the logic that I'm going to say when we're talking about the general law is that the state should use the provisions and savings of the Constitution on the mines, a scientific mining, a contribution of engineering and science in this field, a healthy working environment that no one else's nose could bleed from, a healthy environment-compliant, and that I should take care of it, not with the understanding that it is above the ground's value, but with the protection of the Kazihli Mountains, which protects Salihli Ovasi, which protects Salihli Ovasi, who protects its nose, is also a primary priority. Our dear friends, in this sense, we've tried to make arrangements for the Commission as much as possible in this law, we've received the sector's contributions, but the voice above, the general logic, has not allowed us to make enough corrections on these grounds. With the approval of the General Assembly, hopefully, we'll make these corrections, turn this law into a law that is appropriate for the development of the mining industry, a modern mining operation with human health, and we'll leave in peace. With these feelings, I give you all a lot of respect, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0037par0044	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Alim Ilm, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0038par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions to change some Laws under Mining Law No. 683. I hereby salute the High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. At the beginning of my words, I want to thank everyone who's worked on drafting the bill, and even though it doesn't fully meet the needs of the industry, I'd like to share with you my wishes that the bill is good for the industry to address some of the problems that exist. On this occasion, two weeks ago, I criticised the General Assembly for failing to bring the bill of law, even though the three former ministers had made this promise, while thanking the current Minister during the talks on the Order of the Retail Trade, which the Ministry of Customs and Trade brought back to the General Assembly. On this review, Mr. Customs and Trade former Minister Hayati Yazı Bey passed on his systems to me for a while. Therefore, I'd like to thank Mr. Hayati Printer, who expressed that the final draft bill was completed during his time of the Ministry, and I'd like to make it right. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, when this bill came to our Commission, Mr. Secretary immediately passed the request for this bill to be passed to our members of the Commission. All of our members have expressed their views on the immediate legalisation of such an arrangement with the awareness of the problems involved in the sector, and as a result of intensive Commission work, the bill was quickly downloaded to the General Assembly's agenda. In particular, representatives of the sector, representatives of NGOs and vocational rooms at the beginning of the Commission's work have voiced widespread problems in the sector. We made brief notes on what they all meant. In all, 17 speakers highlighted that the main problem of the sector is the first one, especially in 2012, which was published as the Prime Minister's General Assembly on June 16th, in 2012. Perhaps we may have dear friends who do not read the dictionary, or valuable citizens who listen to us. I'm reading you the exact same sentence. On 16 June 2012, it was published under the signature of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan (except for its public institutions and private administrations) and more than 50 per cent of its capital are related to the holdings of corporations and corporations owned by public institutions, institutions, institutions, institutions, institutions, organizations, corporations, corporations, companies, real or corporate companies; sales, rents, exchanges, allocations, allocations, allocations, etc. The Prime Minister's office will be granted permission for all austerity operations. That's the general order. One of the most affected areas in particular is the mining sector, so there have been restrictions on licenses in this sector. A year later, a news report published in a media body dated 24 September 2013 stated that during the past year, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had not even been granted a permit in the Prime Minister's office for about 12,000 years, with the general order to make him say "This is the kingdom." Therefore, the sector has begun to enter into distress with this sentence, and unfortunately the problems stemming from the fact that the required permits were not granted on time in accordance with the provisions in the generality are growing, and it is still highly expected that some issues may be resolved in the negotiations of this bill today. The second main problem, the second main problem in these general talks, has been the problems following some of the regulations developed in favor of underground mining businesses, with bag laws dated 10 September 2014, and in accordance with the laws of 6552. Four main issues have influenced the industry in these arrangements. The first is an increase in the minimum wage of workers working in underground mining businesses; the second is a 100 per cent increase in social security contributions; the third is the same amount of senior compensation for subterranean mining businesses; and the fourth is limited to six hours a day and 36 hours a week, no more than a total of thirty-six hours a week. Following the implementation of these regulations, many mining businesses in the sector have either had to be shut down or have tried to stand still until now, with new regulations, waiting for us to be able to open up. Dear lawmakers, it's not hard to imagine that about 2,000 workers have been unemployed so far because of the closure of businesses in my electoral district of Kütahya. So the industry expects a solution to these two main issues. As part of this coming bill, we tried to make the most of our efforts to think about the solutions to these main issues. Unfortunately, however, we have to say that an arrangement to address the problems of this main issue is not part of the bill, but part of the area is the solution. What are some of the solutions? In the name of the state, this bag of financial burdens, which I mentioned in businesses that work with redevans on behalf of TKI or Turkish Tashkomu Enterprises, was taken into account by the state, but the private sector was left alone with its own destiny. We specifically reminded the Minister of that. When we told the private sector that we had to make an arrangement that would bring relief to the private sector, he rightly stated that this could not be put into this bill on behalf of the private sector, but could be solved by balancing the market, in view of the work done at the Ministry of Labor, perhaps with some restrictions on imported coal. We respected his opinion, but we reminded him once again that this problem will not be solved. Dear MPs, of course, there are important regulations in the bill. Mr. Sesame expressed a fundamental logic in this bill. There have been difficulties in the era of licenses currently existing in the mining sector, some negligence in meeting the obligations of the law, it has been said, so there must be a measure for them. Of course, it is logical, but the debate continued over the decision that such measures, instead of canceling licenses or registering warrants, could be dealt with with with with by being reduced to fines, and when you looked at the fines, it turned out to be a major burden on these serious problems in the sector. 50,000 liras, like 30,000 liras, you're looking at two or three times the amount of fines in the bill. Now, while the industry has already been dying for three years, while it's been struggling with many problems, the result will be this, and it's not hard to guess: the small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, which have contributed to a significant amount of employment so far in the sector, which have made significant economic contributions to the mining sector, will almost all have to be shut down or shut down, so that the mining sector in Turkey -- perhaps a small number of powerful companies -- will be left in the hands of a few, but will be left in the hands, and the fate of the mining sectors will be left in the hands of these large companies. We'd like to express this in particular as a warning. Of course, this bill has introduced changes in business license groups related to some of the mines. It was a reasonable change, we agreed. The mine classification suggested that the same types of minerals, which require the same kind of activity, or field work, were in the same group, and that they should be dealt with equally in the same amount of punishments, such an arrangement was made. On the other hand, some new definitions have been added and some old descriptions have been updated. This can be presented as a positive assessment from our point of view. Another innovation, search license groups, area sizes, licenses and annual search warrants have been made with changes in the amount of tuition. We have also suggested that this is reasonable, but especially that the height of registration fees is too high. In the same way, sector representatives expressed their frustrations, but the arrangement here, unfortunately, remained original and innovated. Again, the search license was gradually added between $1,000 and $5,000 and put into a new form, and was subjected to an up-to-six-story arrangement. According to the size of the cost of the search warrants, it has been ordered under three groups, including preliminary search, general search and detail search costs. Thus, different applications were introduced in different areas that entered each group. It is possible to accept that as well. There have been changes in business license groups, area sizes, licenses and annual business allowance. Here came the price hikes, which ranged from $15,000 to $150,000, to 1.5 times 15 times higher. An increase in business license prices has increased by up to 7 floors average. Now, this brings you this: When a small and medium-sized business faces this situation in any way, if it can't pay the price that rises and falls into trouble, their licenses will either be revoked or confiscated. Thus, so far, many licenses pending with the Prime Minister's General Assembly will be handed over to the new owners with Minister's approval. Thus, problems in the Prime Minister's generality will result in collapses at the Ministry gate this time, causing perhaps hundreds, thousands of operators to become victims of the ministry's approval. The state's rights rates have been redesigned, and an average increase has again reached 50 per cent. This is one of the issues that miners are uncomfortable with. The adoption of licenses with the approval of the minister came up as the most disturbing issue. However, in some way, although a little softening was provided, our proposal for the Ministry's institutional responsibility in place of the Minister was not considered hot, and it was still put in the form of Minister's approval. The warrants have been reduced to administrative fines, but I've already stated that the converted sentences are quite high. Mining licenses have been redesigned according to the mining groups. The 60 years were set for fifty and thirty and forty years. While some of this is considered reasonable because of some excuses, I also find it helpful to share with you that it will result in many rights victims. A new arrangement for the establishment of authorized corporate personalities has been introduced to ensure that certain jobs and transactions are carried out by these authorized corporate personalities. In particular, there has been no arrangement to address the problems of many real people who have proved their competence in the study rooms and practice so far. These authorized corporate personalities will, of course, be determined by procedure and by regulations, but the issue of serious concerns in this matter has been forwarded to the Ministry, which, hopefully, will be resolved during the General Assembly phase. Again, the decision of the General Assembly on the removal of victims in the private sector would be important, however, with an arrangement for Turkey's Taskömü and TKI's redevance and service transactions to be given a price margin. Precious lawmakers will take a breath into the sector in the case of this bill, which includes such legislation, such as this: businesses whose license has been revoked, or whose guarantees have been registered, or who have reached this stage, if they pay the foreseeable administrative fines, will get their license revoked or their money registered. But the industry doesn't see what tomorrow is waiting for, what kind of trouble awaits them. In particular, as long as this bill remains in effect from the moment the law is passed, it is not possible for this sector to remain a shadow over the government and the Council of Ministers, as long as the media today is able to assess it as the president's office as the country's cabinet. Our desire and proposal, especially from the moment this bill is passed, is to make a special effort for the Minister to take full responsibility and responsibility for the mining sector upon himself and upon the bureaucrats he works with. As long as the Prime Minister's General Assembly remains on top as a separate provision, despite these regulations, it is not possible to resolve the problems in this sector as long as the Minister has his own authority, and I can't help but share with you that new problems will lead to new victims from both sides. On behalf of my special request and the National Movement Party Group, our recommendation is that the Minister, as head of the Ministry of Energy, puts his weight as the sole official of this sector. As long as there are years of labor, institutionalized Mining Affairs General Directorate, TİK, TTK, and there are institutions that have ignored these institutions and are given the right to license, the right to operate, the right to operate will not be solved as long as it remains in effect. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I want to remind you that the bill will bring blessings back to the industry and to our country, and once again, I want to thank those who have done the work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0039par0076	Thank you. On top of the bill is Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0040par0080	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group to speak on behalf of Mining Law number 683, and to speak on behalf of the Constitution of Some Laws. We talked much about the mine here, and We talked about Soma, and Ermenek spoke, and Zonguldak spoke, and Bartin spoke, and Afshin spoke, and the coals in Şırnak were spoken of, and the disaster of the environment was spoken. The nickel mine in Turgutlu was discussed, and the licenses were spoken in many places, and the pursers were spoken, and we talked about everything. But when we look at this bill, it says that on June 10, 2010, there have been some problems with the implementation of the law, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Problems about what? We're looking, it's about human health. Isn't that amazing, guys? For God's sake, is there anything in this bill about human health? There's something in this bill about human health, there's a measure for human health, and it says, "Is there any in it?" I mean, why are you writing that down? Are you kidding me? Who are you kidding? In Soma, 301 people lost their lives -- he was just with me in the group -- the Soma workers -- 2,831 people were laid off. What is it? Because some of the workers working in the coal mines in the mining sector have been improved. If you have a conscience and a political, moral responsibility, if this is a human responsibility, why hasn't the severance of 2,831 workers and 2,831 workers who died in Soma have been terminated? Why wasn't it paid, Mr. Secretary? Why wasn't it paid? Why hasn't the power been paid, O Parliament, O great will? You're just gonna work for the bosses? Are you just going to work for the victims of employers, employers there? What about the rights of these workers? What about the rights of those who die? Can you tell me what their children's wives' rights will be? But you don't bring the rights of the dead worker, you bring in a bill of law to compensate for the loss of the employer who killed them. We discussed it here, in this parliament, and this bill has been withdrawn from the Commission and withdrawn from the government here. It is neither shameful, nor shameful, nor unappreciative. It's been months, and you brought it back. Don't! Don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this! Why did you bring this back? If it's true, why did you withdraw it with a motion? If it's true, then why did you take it? Why did you take it on the commission? Mr. Secretary of Labor was sitting here, why did you withdraw that law here, and now you're bringing it back? Are you kidding me? Are you making fun of the 301 workers who were killed in Soma, who were killed in that furnace, and the 3,000 workers who were fired? Now, you're organizing those employers, the ones who throw up their death, the ones who pay for them. That's the name of this law, kill it, and I'll give you money. It's the law. Kill, kill, make you a law, give you money, kill more, kill more workers, earn more money. How do you win? You're giving the contract of TKO, you're giving the tender, as the Department of Energy, and as the tender you're dragging those contractors to their deaths. You don't maintain job security, you don't maintain security in the mining sector. You haven't even discussed our report on the mining commission in 2010. The House has given you four months, we've worked all over the world, we've set examples of the world, what's going on, what's going on? Isn't it a shame about this House's shift? For four months, we submitted reports of all our work in the provinces, including Soma, including the Zonguldak, including the Manisa Turgutlu nickel mine, including the Kütah, including Afyon, Eskişehir, Bursa, Batman, all of our work at the phosphate factory in Mardin. We have set examples of the world for you to do a proper work, and we have put them in South Africa, and we have put them in Canada, and we have put in all that is in the mining industry. That's how it works, we've written a report saying it's the safest, the safest, the best job health care, the best registrations, the best inspection, hundreds of folders. You threw it away, you blew it, now you're here, you're giving us a mining law. In the mining industry, you only make laws for those who lead people to their deaths and their companies here. What about the environment? Did you guys see if there's any environmental material in this law? Is there anything in this that protects the environment? Then why'd you give it to him? You began to hold water at the Ilisu Dam, and the streams of Rizze went away, and you made a decision to the British company in the price mine in Turgutlu. So what happens when you give me a fine of $5,000, $10,000, $20,000? Can you tell me what 2 million trees are worth, for God's sake? Tell me, when the nickel mine chokes the Gediz Plain for nine years on sulfuric acid, the British Royal Family will take the money and the people will breathe the poison. Is that the idea of mining law? That's not mining law, fellas. Look, I'm being very clear, this is where the worst face of brutal capitalism manifests itself. Now, Mr. Energy Minister has a question about two tenders that are given to employers in Soma. There's a 4-5 billion-dollar event. Now, didn't we tell you, friends, that you've come here many times and handed over the land's mines to you in the hands of the bagmen? Didn't we? Now here, in this law, there's an approach that legitimizes and legitimizes bag shopping and mining detection. The law is about to protect the pursers. Look, it's a very clear judgment, and I'll show you right away, take it: it can be handed over licenses and rights to be found. Isn't it nice, my friends? The government gave its own followers 48 thousand licenses. Sort these out, too. Business licenses are separate, search licenses are separate, domain licenses are separate, etc. Now that he's here, he's bringing his own kind of structure. They've just talked about the oratories -- the opposition parties -- they say they're bringing in competent corporate personalities, corporations. What story is that? Are you kidding us? Didn't you transfer the permission of all mines to the Prime Minister in 2010? What's this story you brought after you tied it to the Prime Minister? Who are you kidding? Are you kidding me? So what are you bringing here to edit? Now, look at this arrangement, the Mining Law, right? It's not the Mining Law, guys. Look, that bag of laws dated September 10, 2014, when he was bringing the miners a watch setting, short hours, short pension, and a little more money, that's why immediately the temporary clause 29th... the cost increases will be paid in price difference. Who's going to make that assessment? Soma Ash, 301 workers are dead. It's not working now, it's closed. How much higher are the wages and salaries of the three thousand people who were laid off there, so you get up there and make a special law called a cost increase? What kind of special law is that? A man who commits a murder is accountable. Whether it's a work accident or a careless one or a reckless one, it's a deliberate one. In a country, if there is a conscience in the Parliament of a country, it will not reward them. This reward is not moral, my friends, but a moment when politics is at its lowest, a moment when political morality is at its lowest, the name of the killing of 301 workers in Soma. Don't give the worker in Soma, the severance pay, the report compensation until now, but offer the employers who killed them a raise in wages! Don't you guys have a conscience? Just think of it as a little human, a little human, a little human. Aren't these your sons, the workers? Aren't they your children, your brothers and sisters? Have a heart, have a heart! We call it compassion, conscience, compassion! What more can we say? How shall we put it? From this stand, these people... The workers of Soma will stick to you one by one in the Hereafter, in the next world. Anyone who votes yes can't get rid of it. Look, I'm telling you straight. These are... half the free coal comes out of the coal, you see, the stone is out of the stone. It's theirs, the stones, the inspector's reports, they're being distributed through the municipalities. Now, can you tell me why this is being done about the rejection system that TKI and TTK are bidding on? Because it's directly up to the Department of Energy. What's the Department of Energy doing? Instead of preventing these accidents, instead of inspecting these licenses, he's rewarding those who did this rather than taking this security. It's the law to reward those who do the killings in these mines, it's called friends, not the mining law. If you look at the head of this law, you'll understand. The Mining Law 1, (a) joke: the rocks used by ready concrete and asphalt from rocks such as Kalsit, Dolomit, Kalker, Granite, Andezit, Bazalt, ready concrete and asphalt. In the joke about rubble and uranium, they put the toryum in the same thing. Now, for God's sake, the agrega -- the monosis, the rubble -- when they're fixing the asphalt, when a machine cuts a truck, then they load it up, they convert it, it's called agrega-Uranium, an atomic nuclear mine, they put it in the same kefe. There is no uranium in Turkey. Now, look, let me get to one more point, about the state share, the state rights issue. He's setting up government rights. Do you know who the state is, according to the government that brought this bill? The state is AK PARTY, a party. There are no municipalities, no local governments, no opposition, no institutions, nothing. Why not? No, guys. Why not? A palace was built in Fivepepe. The White House is being compared to the White House, and today the spokesman of the palace, Abraham Kalin, is speaking like a White House spokesman. It's called the current presidential system. Oh, come on! It's called the plastic presidential system, plastic, plastic, plastic! What kind of presidential system is that, guys? Aga can't have a presidential system, and there's no mining law like that. Now, you've brought 5 per cent as a state's right, 5 per cent. The municipalities have the right to a government share of these mines. Soma Municipality has, Şırnak Municipality has, Diyarbakır Municipality has, all of them have, all of the city municipalities have. Did you say they're dividing the country because we asked for a legal share of the state? You did. Did you say "distributor"? You did. You didn't give up what you said. In fact, the Minister of Energy said it came out. Well, brother, if your city gets it, won't my city get it? Isn't the state's rights, the municipalities, the municipalities, part of the state? He won't take it? Why is it that when you buy it, when you make special laws about this stealing cut, it's nice, but when the government wants to get its share of the rights, one of our municipalities becomes separatist? One of the most fundamental points of the mining law is that in the land where the mine comes out, the people who live there will have a decision about plebisite, the referendum, and the mines there. At least 15 percent of the mine produced there will be deposited in that area, where both central governments and local governments will take their share of the state, where they will have their own... poison, not just pollution, destruction. If he comes out of it, then everyone who dwells in it is entitled to it. In Thrace, in the Aegean, in the Black Sea, in the Inner Anatolia, in the Mediterranean, in the east, and in the southeast. That's what we're trying to tell you. We'll teach you how to talk about it. The departure of these governments in Turkey, just like the arrival of SYRIZA, in Greece, is very close, friends, look, look, look. SYRIZA's power is just like our party. In 2002, we entered the election, we did not pass the dam; then in 2007, we entered without a dam, we entered independently, and now we enter as a party. That's how Syriza started. Yes, there's no reason why you can't succeed when you've united the people. Now, we need to talk about imported coal as a separate page here, the spinners and tax evasions. Again, Mr. Energy Minister -- all the private companies involved in energy -- come out energy, electricity -- makes statements every day, like the collector. Bro, you privatized it, you sold it, the power's gone, why are you collecting it? Is the collection your business? They get the money. Why do you collect? Stop collecting, stop giving money to these dead employers. Leave the people's rights and the citizens' rights in this country, that's enough. Let us live, let there be people, and the environment, and the olives, and the living, and the culture, and the tourism, and let us live as human beings. We're totally against it, guys. There's no mining law like this.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0041par0098	Thank you. Free Special, Manisa MP, asking for a word on his behalf. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0042par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to myself over all of the Mining Law. Now, the Soma disaster has happened. Up until the Soma disaster, opposition parties, occupational organisations, NGOs, trade unions were pointing out a danger, saying: "The mines in Turkey are not safe, the miners' lives are in Allah's hands, but a disaster is near." There was someone who disagreed with them, and today they honor the ranks of the Council of Ministers. They, especially on the first day of Ramazan, sat at the iftar tables, saying that this mine was one of the world's few most secure mines, praising its high technology. Then, the inspectors of that Ministry or the Department of Labor, who were in charge of any other control area, went and inspected those mines, and we expected them to be independent of them, to write bravely. He was squeezing the shoes, the shoes, the shoes. It was normal for them to have a connection, a connection, to speak the same language, not to be conflicted, and unfortunately, they did. After Soma happened, there was a law of reaction. The Soma Law was issued to the public so that it would be safe to say: "All groups, all groups, with old eyes, with knotted throats, were determined not to send our children to their death after this, we made an oath. When soma came to Soma, representatives of the ruling party, on behalf of the Prime Minister, or 10 miners from Soma, were brought in and interviewed by the Prime Minister, they were always stressing the same thing: "The lesson was taken from Soma, and it will not happen again." They asked for time to pass the Soma Law, and said, "Will the miners pass in two or three days?" The vice president of the ruling party said ten days. They warned me, "Let it be on the day of the Parliament," he said. But the law, which began on May 31st, was supposed to be passed on September 10th, and all its problems would be solved. There were 16 items about Soma and mining, but with 145 articles, there was a bag of laws. It's even determined what percentage of the turnout will be if the tube is performed for the third time. With regard to mineral law, mining, business security, soma, and promises for Soma were gathered under three main axes. One of them, the minister, who lost his life in those days, insisted that our martyrs be done to our martyrs. These words have been partially kept, but there are major flaws in the application. Yesterday, the parents who had lost their children in the mines were traveling around the parliament, describing their problems, complaining about their failure to keep their promises. The second main axis was a promise to the current miners. Almost none of those words were kept. It was just a part about a salary increase. The Prime Minister of the period promised six salary bonuses, two thousand liras, and then six salary bonuses were waived, two thousand liras returned to minimum wage, and even he is now trying to take steps back from it, thinking that some mining companies might fail. Six hours of work, 36 hours of work, and the ministers say maybe 40, 42 hours, the opposition, the unions object, but it looks like there's going back. We're at a point where there's an incredible simultaneous agreement on the mining law, the Energy Commission, and the Labour Commission. The policies that talk to each other, the ministries that talk to each other, the law that talks to each other, and the law that talks to each other are needed. Even though it has been warned, many aspects of my study must be eliminated, there should be no secondary, no high-responsibility in the third law. Despite their warnings, the two commissions are working at the same time so that they cannot contribute to both sides. The Ministry says it's what we say it is. We've seen the incredible efforts of opposition groups on both commissions, but the Ministry has tried to compensate for its non-communications status as Chairman of the Commission. The administration of the Commission's presidency aside, but the Ministry was closed to communication. I'm not just talking about being closed to communication in the Commission, to being closed to civil society, but to the AKP Group, who always get 47 per cent of the vote, and then call it the national will, and almost sees the capacity to change the regime. I'm going to tell you about 47 percent national will, a 100 percent national will: the Soma Commission, which the four parties formed together, said that we wrote a report as big as Briket. Aha, the Republican People's Party has also written him an opposition as big as bricks. But we've all contributed here, and with our contributions, the Soma Commission report contains 110 pages of proposals. We sat down because the proposals were too long, and we wrote an 11-page summary, so Congress could benefit from them tomorrow while they're doing legislation. Believe it or not, he came to the Labor Commission, and the Minister of Labor and Social Security said we couldn't find the report of the Soma Commission. Yeah, five weeks ago, we picked it up, rocked it, put it in Parliament, all over the websites, the gentlemen couldn't find it. Has the Department of Labor found it? But when he found them, he turned to them, and they did not look back. There's not one ministry proposal... that the four parties, spending their money, working their way through their efforts, they don't go into the mine, they don't risk their lives, they crawl in, and they don't turn the page of this report, and neither did the Ministry of Labor. We didn't find it. They say, "We didn't see it." They say, "We don't know it." On the other hand, the president of the Soma Commission? Why didn't he just talk here? The AKP Group has not spoken on behalf of this law, nor has the Minister. There's stuff going on that doesn't take minds, memories. Could it be something like this? The President of such a Commission does not speak on behalf of the AKP Group. Why? The minister's out of touch. Ask your friend why he's not in this room. We've got a lot of motions lined up. There's a mining ministry in our list of motions, all groups recommend it, the minister doesn't like it, his authority will be split. We say it's an accident if there's no law of coal. There's a coal-special law all over the world, 20 pages of legislation, your friend. 5,000 pages in the United States, 3,000 pages in Ukraine, 2,000 pages in Germany, 19.5 pages in the Sir. That's what the Soma Commission says, they don't come in and take stuff from there and put it in the law. The Soma Commission made us all understand the importance of methane drainage. The methane drainage is rising as it descends, we're going to remove methane with a pipe from the outside, you have to get a natural gas release license to the coal company who wants to do it. The legislation is intense and because work is intense and financially difficult, it's not licensed. Something will be done to make it easier, they're so closed to communication that they're not putting a methane drain in there that the House is issuing a mining law. If it was methane drainage, it wouldn't be the Soma disaster. And the Ministry of Ermenek, which does not apply the obligation of the ancient minefields to be mapped by the MiGEM up to 15 percent of each year's April, does not listen to the motions to the issue of flammable gases in Manisa. I wouldn't say anything about the opposition as much as our brick, but not reading the joint part of the Soma Commission is really disrespectful to this Congress, to these citizens, to these martyr families, to this sector. I'll tell you one simple thing: despite all the promises made to the families of our 301 miners, not to mention 2,831 people are out of work. Against these things, you said, "We're not going to leave them exposed in the middle of the winter; our government is strong, our government is sensitive." What happened to these people? They didn't get a penny. If you believe in a common mind like this, you'll take out a small addition of those compensations, where the government will pay at once, and then you'll go and collect as a public collecter. There's a fail-safe on all his assets, and you're ignoring it. You have a promise to warn Mining. You have spoken to Ali Kandemir, our brother Idris Sarıkaya, who has lost his eyes, who has lost his feet, and to the children who have been victims of 800 Warnings, but they have not yet been compensated. Every time your undersecretary takes notes so we can work a little harder. We refer this Minister to the consciences of this House and of our nation. We don't have anything to say. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0043par0115	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0044par0116	Mr. Undersecretary, what about the list of miners? You promised on the commission, what happened? We don't trust him. We trust you. We don't trust the Minister of Energy at all.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0043par0117	Now, Mehmet Erdogan, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a word on behalf of himself. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0045par0120	I have taken a personal oath on the Law of the Mining Law to change some Laws. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill contains important regulations in the mining sector. Reconstruction of the mining sector is intended to launch practices similar to the mining practices of the modern and rapidly developing world in our country. With this law, our main goal is to raise business health and safety in the industry. Dear lawmakers, there are five different mining license groups in the current law. The law offers the possibility of combining search and operation of different mineral resources found together in the same geological environment. The definitions have been reconstructed by consideration of world applications. New definitions, such as the period of physics, the report on fysibility, the authorized legal person, have been added. The opportunity to prepare for feasibility, which has not been implemented so far, but is extremely important. With this practice, our miners will be able to use the search license in a much more efficient and efficient way. Using the data they obtained during this period, they will be able to design and implement an efficient, secure mining operation. Another effect of this practice is that the mining operating implementation projects that will be given are realistic. The concept of the established corporate person will be a new practice brought into the mining sector. With this app, the structures that provide engineering-equipment services will be compatible. Another important goal targeted by the authorized corporate person is to ensure that the report, the project and other technical documents presented to the Ministry of Energy are presented in accordance with the truth and science. With this new structure, the process from searching to running will be reported regularly in a wholety. With this new institutional structure, a more dynamic structure will be created. The application will be removed and the application will be replaced by the application of a permit fee. The search period has been particularly important to keep license prices low. The goal here is... the search period is what matters in mining. The 30 per cent of the registration fee for business licenses will be collected in a separate account and will be used to improve the post-business mining field. During mining activities, the miners receive institutional tax, plus income tax, and state rights. With these changes, a gradual increase has been made for mineral species that are sensitive to world price changes as a new practice. That way, the manager will be protected and the state will receive additional state rights in the possible increases. The minimum annual increase in state rights will be announced by MiGEM. That way, the state's price will be made to fit the truth. For small source salts, the registration fee is exempted. About 3,000 licenses are not cancelled due to permits that should be taken from other public institutions, but cannot be received for various reasons. This is a new law-enforcement procedure, the removal of the technical surveillance system. Due to the lack of sufficient mining engineers 60 years ago, the implementation of oversight, also called "supervised" is being lifted under the circumstances of that day. The reason for this arrangement is that there are sufficient mining engineers. The current law called off search warrants for businesses who didn't make the calls they were supposed to make during the search period. This application is being lifted, and instead of canceling the license, 20,000 Turkish liras are fined for administrative fines, allowing a transition from the pre-search period to the upper term, such as a general search. Congressmans, the law has changed the form of giving a license. Natural stones, marble, coal, iron, chromium, copper, ceramic clay, uranium, and so on will be licensed in the first application as before. However, arity materials, agrega, jewelry, cement, and lime raw materials will be licensed by tender method. It is possible for neighbouring mining businesses to operate with a joint project, along with business security, efficiency and so on. According to the group of licenses given after this, the rights of the existing licenses have been changed to between 30 and 50 years. The same person, the company's different license phase search, will be merged into business spaces to enable additional investment in additional facilities if needed for the current mining operation. Underground coal mining is forbidden to practice redevance. There is no ban on open businesses. To compensate for costs increased by law, the bag is being arranged for redevans, which Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation and Turkish Coal Corporations have previously launched. I wish this bill well for our country's mining and economics. Dear friends, as we discussed this mining law in the Commission, all MPs of the opposition and the government made extraordinary efforts, and many of the opposition's motions were adopted there. Of course, there were four meetings there when they were discovered. Now, while I have been watching these studies of the opposition with appreciation -- but the HDP MP from opposition parties only participated once -- and while we worked until morning to make this law; with their motions, with their support, with their participation, with their two other opposition parties having great support, while contributing to it, unfortunately, the HDP had no contribution, as they had just done here. If only they had joined the Commission's work in Congress, in order to make a public appearance here, instead of turning it into an unfair profit, in front of the public, we could've brought what they said here as a motion, and we could've accepted the ones who were right together. I'd like to remind you of something while I wish the mine law to be a blessing. Friends, let's not forget... that I want to take my place by making a special emphasis on the nuclear plant in the world's energy, which is that today, in the middle of the European Union and the center of the world, Brussels and Brussels, there's a nuclear plant in the middle of the city. In the world -- one study -- all developed, developed countries are taking advantage of these nuclear plants, but in developing countries like us, and in less developed countries, they're looking for ways to make their scripts happen and get them away from it. Yes, the mines need to be searched, we need to increase the number of miners, and we need to stop packing, and I wish the law would be good. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit03spe0046par0144	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0046par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 48th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. The commission and the government are in place. Now we move on to the question-answer process on the entire bill. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0047par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the speakers have always said that 2,831 people have been fired in Soma. If 2,831 people have actually been laid off and they have not been compensated, doesn't the government do anything about it? I mean, the victims of these people in Soma, our citizens' hunger situation, we're building a house abroad last week in Somali, and so on and so forth. The people in Soma have no housing. Why do we build a dwelling in Somalia when the people in Soma have no housing? I don't understand it. Can you help me with this? Can you give me an explanation? Another question: How many mines are there in Turkey? How many people work in the mines? When are the addresses where these mines are located... When were these licensed? Are there any cancellations in it? My final question: what does this practice bring to the citizen, the employee, and what does it take? Is there any use in that, in making these kind of contracts? I'd appreciate it if you'd be more specific and more specific about these questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0048par0011	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0049par0013	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, a recent scientific research report by the relevant institution mentions the possible presence of active earthquake faults that will affect Akkuyu Nuclear Plant in the medium area. According to geologic, geophysical, seismic data, there are hard evidence of the Ayash fault, which has been learned to be active and stretches across the sea. The report recommended detailed new geological, geophysical and seismic research on this fault. Will these investigations be conducted? If it was done, what's the result? Is there an earthquake station network running close to the plant now? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0050par0016	Thank you. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0051par0018	Mr. Secretary, with the privatisation of electricity distribution, complaints about bills have been increasing day by day. A serious complaint about recent readings has arisen, and reading for two months has naturally increased consumption and in this parallel the amount of payment caused by consumption. When the press asked you this question, you said that your response was that the distribution companies were warned. However, beyond the warning, what do you think of the late reading of electricity bills affecting the citizens' economic situation, perhaps bringing economic profit to distribution companies in this sense, as the Ministry for the prevention of an economic loss to consumers?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0050par0019	Dear Private...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0052par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in a statement to the press in Soma, you say: "I am the guarantee that all the responsible will be punished for this mining accident, that the investigation will go where the investigation will go." You did not allow the responsible bureaucrats there to be tried. You were angry when I came from the stand, and you said: "You will see my attitude in Soma. Why don't you tell me about the permits I gave you elsewhere? The other day, with your signature, an answer came to the question motion. On January 16th, you refused to let the inspectors in Soma be questioned. Now, after the gene interview, you were calling me, why don't you tell me what I gave you? You'll see my attitude in Soma. We've seen your attitude, what do you say?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0053par0023	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0054par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been constant statements about electricity and gas increases these days. Are you in charge of this? What's the latest? My second question is, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was appointed Prime Minister when he was Prime Minister. When we were in charge, local executives decided on mine permits, so they had that authority up to the forest managers there. Why was this taken into the Prime Minister's office? Is it possible for the prime minister to know about the fields in Adana's Aladağ, the fields in Pozant, the areas in Karaisan, the areas in the floodbrain, the ecosystem there, the ecology, the fauna? Although he doesn't know these things, what is the main reason the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has so much work to do with the fact that his mining permits are linked to the Prime Minister? That's what they say in public, you know, that they have to be built into a certain structure...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0055par0029	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0056par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the number of mining and business licenses still pending due to the Prime Minister's Office of 2012/15? With this law in effect, do you expect an acceleration in these licenses? My second question is, do you have a study of transitioning from this country's tariff to regional tariff, as is known about the missing price of electricity distribution companies, to 77 million citizens on national tariffs? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain to me what the latest situation is. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0057par0035	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0058par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Antalya has been granted 3,500 quarry and mining licenses. Is there an end to this, Mr. Secretary? How many more will be given to Antalya? There were holes all over the place, and all our mountains turned white, and the forests were cut off. How will those who have been abandoned from these areas, the mines and quarryes that have completed their mission, be restored to its former state? Can you give me an example of a rehabilitated mining site or quarry? And what measures do you take to protect the historical structures within these areas? When these places are being delivered, are they detecting historical ruins and cities in them? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0059par0041	Thank you. Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0060par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will they be assisting in the petitions from the Diet for aid in the collection of electricity companies reflected in the press? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0061par0046	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0062par0048	Mr. Secretary, I insisted on my speech, but if I don't ask questions here, I know you won't answer. You should not have left 2,831 people in Soma. What are you going to do about them? The severance checks are still not paid for both those 2,831 people and 301 people who lost their lives. What kind of step do you intend to take in this regard? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0063par0051	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0064par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is this current Mining Law Bill a cure for all kinds of problems in terms of the right of our people to live in a healthy environment? If not, will you have a study to resolve what will cause problems in this bill and the issues that will cause this problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0065par0056	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0066par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been serious problems with these privatised electricity companies in various parts of Turkey, especially our province of Adana for the past two months. For many years, I did not see a period in Adana where the entire city was without electricity and was without electricity for long periods of time. There's something seriously wrong with your privatisation policies. In Adana, citizens are trying to reach the power failure, but they can't find an authority. As a congressman, we can't reach him for days, even after my call. I mean, is there any sanction in the privatisation of these companies you've privatized? What's your solution to all this? Or will these power outages continue frequently in Adana and Turkey? About this, especially for Adana, a serious solution needs to be resolved, bringing with it a great deal of hardship. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0067par0061	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0068par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, that's a very good question, but do any of these mining licenses have children or grooms who do it? How many licenses has anyone ever sold, signed? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0069par0066	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0070par0068	Mr. President, dear congressman friends, I'd like to begin by thanking all of my fellow lawmakers, who have so far given counsel, criticism, and contributions to their speech. I'll try to answer any questions that have been asked so far in my time. Now, dear friends, there's been a mining accident in Soma, which has been very upsetting to all of us in Soma, and I've said over and over again that this is a serious responsibility for the relevant institutions and for the private companies, and I want to say it here once again. Who is guilty, who is not guilty, has sides that lead to justice and are based on inspection. Now, 2,831 must first discuss the reasons for the dismissal of our fellow workers, and then move on to the matter of severance pay. Remember, many statements were made there, as well as statements that those mines were not supposed to be run that way, that they were coming and that they needed to be shut down. Of course, the furnaces that don't comply with business health and occupational safety need to be closed down, and the furnaces that don't comply with the specific conditions there. That's what we did. So the inspections, inspections on matters related to Atabaca, either in Eynez, or in Atabaca, where the accident took place were to prevent our fellow workers from taking another risk. Now, I don't feel ready for the new jobs of those friends or psychologically. Some of them returned to their homeland, some of them stayed in Soma, and some of them found new jobs. The legislation we have is to ensure that only those employed within the private sector will be paid by the private sector. What kind of path can be followed? AT present, an arrangement can be made for the company to pay for its company, along with a legal arrangement, and then to get it to the company and to get it from the company. This is a matter of the approval of the General Assembly. The commitments to building a dwelling there continue the same way. There's no way to give up those commitments, the actual situation there. All of the 77 million of us collected for 48-50 million TL were also delivered to others in that sense under the law. So far, our friends have asked about the number of permits waiting for the PM. We're talking about licenses around 1,224, and we were asked to know who owned the mining licenses, both in the Commission and here. These were sent to both Mr. Tanal and Mr. Erdoğdu's e-mail addresses. In fact, I asked the Internet to publish this because there's no secret about it. If there's a trade secret, it's his secret, but it's not hidden, so it can be done. Now, dear friends, in our investigations, in writing a request for permission, in accordance with the expert report dated 5/9/2014 due to the mining accident, the issues related to the investigation will be raised by permission of the Soma Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to be rejected by the Akhisar Heavy Penal Court and in the event of further investigations. Now, here are two basic principles that we take care of and care about. If there really are fellow officers we feel responsible for, there are issues that we allow to investigate -- there are many examples of this -- but there are issues that we don't really allow to investigate friends that we don't believe are abused in that regard. We're doing each of these with our own internal audits. Redevans was asked whether or not there is a benefit or not; it's out of the public, it's in the public, it's out of the private sector, it's being asked what it's going to do. Dear friends, the basic principle of redevence right now is that we tried to explain this in part at the commission: once, if there's an investor who can actually run it with redevance, let him take it, but if there's someone who can't really do it, let him get it out of the way, if anyone can, let him do it. That's basic logic. That doesn't mean he won't get service in certain areas, I don't know, subcontractorial service or a service related to dynamite. Today, certain competent people can do it much better, but that doesn't mean redevant. Just because there's going to be a service purchase on that issue doesn't mean you have to hand over the entire coal company. So we're in favor of separating these two issues. In the question asked about nuclear, new earthquake faults, about the Moon faults... dear friends, you know the fault maps of MTAbook in 1979 have been updated over the past year and we're talking about your total 25,000 new, living benefits in Turkey, which are around 12,000-something, so they've been updated. Even though we've already given the unscheduled maps in this area to the firm, the IGA, the company says: I'm going to invest 22 billion dollars here. I'm going to update each one of these and I'm going to do it again. The Japanese have done the same thing in Sinop. They've done their seismics on them, even 12 kilometers, 20 kilometers, 25 kilometers out, and they've done their research on them. Both Russia will do in Akkuyu, as well as in Sinop. The company will do all the work related to new fault maps. Even if we say he's not here, there's a chance he's going to be, because I'm the one who's going to bury the money here, and I'm the one who's going to take the risk, and he's doing every one of those things. They're the ones who won't risk any more than we do. With the privatisation of power distribution companies, we've had some warnings about the reading of the bills. Mr. Congressman, since there's no increase in economic losses here, electricity prices don't go up, it's the company's own. We asked them once to observe the periodical, to pay their bills in their term. On this occasion, or on this occasion, if it is read late, it will be the company itself, not the citizen who will suffer economic loss. In particular, an investigation into the death of 11 people has been asked concerning Afşin Elbia. Yeah, we didn't let him because we gave him his reasons. Now, dear friends, there were normally 300 or so employees there two days ago in Afghanistan. It's an area run by a private company, and when the opposite heel goes missing, all the workers are removed, and they say, "What kind of shift is there, what reason does it have to be, and what kind of risks it has to be... this accident happened during the work. There was no accident when a normal coal management operation was done, and there was an accident during their detection. ▪ Is there a rise in electricity and natural gas? Dear friends, I don't comment on this any more, but I'm making a statement in case there are questions asked in television programs or press conferences, and now I'm going to answer because there are questions being asked: I'm telling you right now that as of this month, we're not going to make a new arrangement for electricity and natural gas prices, and I'm saying this once again in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like to say once again that authority is in the automatic pricing mechanism or within its own rules. The fact that this has been taken over as part of the Prime Minister's department in particular does not mean that we are suspending powers related to any forest, environmentally related to the CED, friends. It's all going on again. I've presented you with the number of Prime Ministerial Generalities pending permission. Now, politically, Turkey is not ready for this, and the most missing fugitives are in East and Southeast Anatolia as of the region... and if we move to regional tariffs, the price of electricity will be 20 cents in Schepeli, while the price of electricity is 45 cents in Şırnak. I have to tell you that that's not true right now and that we're going on the national schedule as usual.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0071par0082	One moment, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0070par0083	Electricity normally goes on. I'll answer other questions in other parts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0072par0085	About the missing fugitive...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0073par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0087	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0073par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0090	Mr. Tanal, you know the QA is complete.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0073par0091	It's not a question-answer, Mr. President, they're giving false information to the Minister, it's said we sent it to Mahmut Tanal, so the email didn't come to us.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0092	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0075par0094	Mr. President, this is rude, no, this is a congressman speaking. Please! But don't underestimate the MPs.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0095	No, sir, it's in the Civil Code, and just now another congressman...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0075par0096	Mr. President, I beg you, is this the right attitude, this is a congressman speaking?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0097	Please...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0076par0098	The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0099	I've promised Mr. Tanal....three times during his time.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0077par0100	Sir, if there's something important, will he not explain it, Congressman, please?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0076par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0102	Time's up, sir. How long will this go on?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0076par0103	Mr. President, the Civil Code says that the Minister will give the question clearly. They're misleading the Minister, too.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0104	Yes, I will answer to the others in writing. He said, "Mr. Secretary."
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0076par0105	Which of your staff sent me an e-mail? How many mines are there? How many people are working? I mean, is it so hard to give me a number here?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0106	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0078par0107	Do what you did to Mr. Türkan Hoxha, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0079par0108	He's right, he didn't come to me either. Mr. Secretary says we sent him. He didn't show up, maybe there's something missing, so it's a minute's work.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0074par0109	We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 18th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0080par0114	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on Mining Law number 683 and the Bill of Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers are the head of the mining sector, the highest-profit industry in our country, as in many parts of the world, especially in the top sectors that provide the highest jobs. It's one of the most needed sectors in developing countries like us, and it's at the head of the industry that reduces our outside dependency. However, since it does not have enough support, unfortunately, the mining sector is able to receive around 4 per cent of the GDP. However, it is very possible that this share of our underground wealth is at a much higher level. Therefore, it is the responsibility to open the way for the industry, to give the industry the support it needs, to give us incentives. So, in 2014, unfortunately, there was a black year for the industry. In 2014, we suffered a great deal in the mining sector and as a country. But instead of taking the necessary lessons from these sufferings and solving problems in cold blood, the industry is completely blocked while the heat of the event is being rushed, rushed, and perhaps in good faith to open up the sector. Although some rights have been granted to miners by the bag of legislation issued on 9/11 2014, the overall sector has been damaged, dear friends. Here, the miners who suffered from this bag of legislation came to our group, and they came to the ruling party group, and they tried to explain their problems to the friends in the opposition. What was the basic issue here? First of all, it's about doubling the minimum wage. The industry doesn't object to that, but the second issue is that the insurance premiums have been doubled and added an extra charge. In this law, the burden is only lightened by an adjustment to public enterprises, but unfortunately there is no regulation on the private sector outside the public. The reduction of the working hours into six hours, the reduction of severance benefits to 100 per cent, and the construction of pauses due to some lack of supplies that have not been produced in our country, and the payment of workers who work during the stop, or, in fact, work in the business, but can't work, has greatly blocked the sector. Now, when we're going to get past this, I'm afraid we can't see the outcome steps here when we go to practice, as we do in many ways, although we've seen that there's a so-called enthusiasm in the friends at the ruling party, there's a friendly approach as an image. Dear lawmakers, I said these practices have blocked the sector. Look, I'd like to share the numbers with you. About 10 million tons of coal is produced in these closing furnaces or in the furnaces that will be closed from now on. When these stoves are closed, we'll have to import about 6 million tons of coal from the outside for this 10 million tons of coal. And at this point, the world's coal market is dominated by the monopoly, and don't worry about the price of 80 dollars of coal today, which will go up to $120-140. I mean, the Turkish people are going to suffer for this trouble again, dear friends. While we needed to resolve this matter quickly -- as our Free Special Friend mentioned earlier -- the Mining Law was being discussed at the same time, while the Ministry of Labor was also discussing the Labour Safety Law. Unfortunately, there's no way to understand the urgency of this matter. I mean, one of them would be gone, and we'd be able to complete what's missing on the other side. Now, we've done the Mining Law, but we don't know what's in the Occupational Safety Act. As a result, some items in the Mining Law were brought into the bag of legislation. After that, the bag is now removed from the law agenda. I'd like to make a point here, to present it to the knowledge of the High Council. I just said we're going to have to import 6 million tons of coal in exchange for 10 million tons of coal, and the $80 price will go up to $120-140. Yeah, it's a free market. But no, friends. The world's coal trade is in the hands of only five or six large monopolyes, I'm afraid. Look, I'd like to share with you two striking examples. A manufacturer in Australia sells coal to Japan for $40 -- the same coal, the same quality of coal -- to Turkey for $70. Because the manufacturer doesn't sell that coal. He buys that coal from the manufacturer. So, the monopoly adjusts the price in Siberia or the price of coal in another region according to the price in Turkey. Another striking subject... a very close, 15 days ago, a fellow of ours who was involved in this work, during these law talks, my deputy, I experienced something like this. Please be careful with that. He said. What was that about? This friend of ours wants to import coal from Colombia. A manufacturer in Colombia is sending him a contract. In ten days, the firm will not be able to sign this contract. Send her back. She's giving up her shopping. Why? When it's tampered with, we see that one of those five or six large monopolyes is pushing back on this deal. I mean, when we're supposed to be opening up in this sense, it's about these things, unfortunately, that law doesn't provide an arrangement to overcome these issues. Now, regarding Soma, the proposals made by the Soma law, the proposals made by the Turkish National Assembly Mining Research Commission during 2010, were unfortunately not taken here; they were not used enough. This sector needs to change its shell, yes, it needs to change its shell. Work safety culture needs to develop, develop with its employer, with its employee. We need to develop work safety equipment. However, this equipment also needs to be supported by the miners coming from abroad without customs or VAT. On the other hand, it's a very important issue, and we need to develop technology in mining. We need to develop investments in technology in mining. Now, the state gets a license fee here, 70 per cent of the registration price goes to the treasury, 30 per cent stays as an environmental harmonisation guarantee, but there is no incentive to develop technology. So, there's this important flaw here, and we need to complete it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And in my next talks, I'm going to make suggestions about these. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0081par0130	Thank you. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP, asking for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. So I made a promise on chapter one. I salute you all. First of all, let me point out that we are on the side of Turkey's underground wealth, the country's economy, the country's people, the working conditions, the humanitarianization of these riches into the country's economy. Let me just say that we're on the side of arrangements for this. However, I would like to point out that we are not part of the ground-to-earth arrangement that ignores people's lives, ignores the environment because we're going to dig coal or mines. We object to the fact that the arrangements that have been made so far have not been done with this perspective, as we object to. Now, underground working conditions, mines, etcetera, in many cases, friends have expressed many things in detail here. Of course, it's not just an underground wealth that depends on the Minister, it's an area that depends on the above-ground wealth, and it's a ministry that deals directly with the businesses there. One of these troubled areas is electricity production. Recently, you've seen, until the city's power goes out, etcetera, there's been a lot of trouble until the hospital's power goes out, and I'm going to go over it in detail in my speech. However, it has just come to my attention that on the question of a deputy, Mr. Secretary has stated that he has not gone on the regional schedule or will not. Right, Mr. Secretary, you did, didn't you?
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0083par0139	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0140	Now, my dear friends, I'm going to share some information with you. The Plan and Budget Commission are now negotiating a law proposal. The 21st article of the law proposal, interestingly, does not confirm the Minister. Mr. Secretary, if that offer was made against his will, if it was given without his knowledge, it is not the answer to our criticisms, but if it was given within their knowledge, then it is the basis of our criticism. The 21st article of the proposed law, if you'll excuse me, says the 21st article we've discussed above: ▪14/3/2013, and the Interim Article 6446 added: ▪ Measures to reduce losses in the distribution system The Board is authorized to redefine the number of nontechnical and nontechnical losses to date 18/1/2016, considering different regulations in distribution areas above the country's average, taking into account the previous year's loss-missing rates, and including the following application periods. Mr. Secretary, you don't know about this, do you? You don't know about this stuff, do you? What does that bring? It makes a difference in the region.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0084par0144	That's different, that's different. It has nothing to do with that.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0145	What do you mean, separate? Well, if you can tell it from each other, I'd say it's okay, but it's not different. Well, it's clearly a local recipe difference. Mr. Secretary, this proposal, the item I just read, does not confirm the information you just submitted to the House about 20 minutes ago. A citizen in Diyarbakır and a citizen in Rize will not pay the same amount of money when he uses the same electricity and uses the same kilowatt electricity. That's what this clause says, the Kurul will decide. It says. What will the board decide? The bills in the area where there are too many missing persons will be a little bit bigger, he says.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0085par0146	Yes, what is our sin? Right.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0147	It's clear, it's Turkish. A solution? You know there's no solution, you've seen it. Now I'd like to share a few pictures with you. Mr. Secretary, these are not pictures taken in the 1970s. You may not be able to see it up close. This photo was taken yesterday in Yüksekova, where the picture was taken. Come on, we get it, the citizen's being evaluated as a missing fugitive, his power's out, he's not being electrocuted, I get it.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0085par0149	We don't have surgeries, we have surgeries in the middle of Turkey, in Marmara.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0150	This is a public hospital, a public hospital, Mr. Secretary. Do you know what the doctor is doing at the state hospital right now? He's measuring the citizen's blood pressure. In the light of what? In your luxury light. In some parts of this country in the 21st century, people are enlightened by the light of the field, thanks to you, your policies. Come on, if I'd brought you a picture from a house, a store, you'd have said: "Let him pay for it, let him get his electricity." At the end of the day, the Minister says so, but it's not like that. One more picture, not one square. I assure you, this is not a metaphor. This is a picture of a hospital, this is a luxury you see, this is a medical staff, this is a patient and they're giving him a shot.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0086par0153	May God heal you.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0154	Yes, God bless you, but healing is given in healthy conditions, not healing by making amulets. In these circumstances, God heal him. When you say, "Go get yourself a amulet." People can't heal under these conditions. We're talking about a medical staff who made your report by candlelight, by luxury light. Every time we come in, we say, "Mr. Secretary of Health -- we call the Minister of Health -- there are no doctors left in the area, there are no medical staff left; you've built a hospital, physical conditions are not going, but the staff isn't going, the doctor isn't going. We shoot, they don't go. He says. I'll tell you why: that's why people don't want to practice their professions by candlelight. We know about your love for certain parts of Turkey, we know about your love, we know that you only see yourself, we know that you assume that Turkey is all about you, but it's a shame; look, it's a pity, I'm giving you the picture of the 21st century, the 21st century. Don't come in here and talk about the missing fugitive like it's rice. If you can't figure it out, let us do it. We offered, you can't figure it out, so let us figure it out. We made you a very clear offer.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0087par0157	Line up, there's a major opposition.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0082par0158	There's nothing you can do about it, but you can only make some companies rich. If you are giving municipalities the services of the Council of Europe, just as it is required to make roads, street and sidewalk arrangements, give them to municipalities, and municipalities will be dealt with. If the city generates electricity, you don't have to go and turn it off. If a citizen asks for power, let the city take its power, let the municipality do the service. Why are you always giving us such a headache? You practice here, you edit here, and the next day, companies go under. What can we do to save companies? You invite Parliamentary commissions to a meeting. That's what we're talking about up there right now. If you're in, bring it in, we'll make these arrangements this way, but no... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if you insist on it, your insistence is that the citizen will be treated for luxury in the hospital. Think about what's going on with the citizens in the ICU. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0088par0164	Well, as happy as you're being treated, we're being canceled.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0089par0165	Thank you. Now, Emin Haluk Ayhan wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group and on behalf of himself. Your time is 15 minutes, I'm putting it together. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0090par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party on the first part of Bill 683, which is being discussed. I salute the grand jury. It's a business where dramatic events happen in our country. A period of such sad events and an adjustment to the industry is being made. It's a bill, a government bill. I'm afraid it's impossible to say that the work was seriously analyzed and moved to the public. First of all, I must say that the general reason is far from meeting this bill. That's what I said at the Commission. However, this is a classic form of AKP's behavior, which is how he systematically assesses the issue of the draft. However, as I mentioned earlier in the Commission, the ministry really has enough staff and quality to give a better reason for human resources, in terms of quality. The AKP does not need to make a serious statement. I'm not just saying that this is the case with the Ministry, but the AKP and its government are doing the same thing on every issue. The AKP has carried out similar incidents in all the plans. Unfortunately, the AKP, the government, has the same way of bringing in proposals and proposals. Rather than the needs of the country, it is designing an arrangement not to contribute to perfection, but rather to approach perfection, but to respond to its advocacy and to provide for it. The general reason is there's no information on the industry, and I said it upstairs. The sector's place in the economic area, its contribution, its location in foreign trade, its resources, the source of which this arrangement will bring to justice, God bless it. For what it's worth, it's important that tomorrow, years later, when the general reason was read, what he said for what he said, when it was called the Ministry or the Government, there's nothing to understand. I'm very clear, Mr. Secretary, and I'm sorry. After all, you have brought an arrangement, which will come out of here as a law imposed by the Republic of Turkey. If someone looked at this bill tomorrow and looked at the general reason why they had brought it, they would be amazed. The government -- as I've just said -- only in the materials -- shows that it considers an arrangement for whoever needs it. What does he do that a general opinion of the sector is not expressed here, that the government has no such concern? He'll think about it. Now, that's what we think. See, there was a symposium at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the process of lawmaking, and members of the ruling party attended it, and so did I. Now, at least in this way, or in accordance with legal regulations, it should have been explained in some way what the contribution of this bill would be, or in terms of sectors, what it would be for the players in the industry to have different benefits or losses. The commission's attitude is a celebration, and I'm not at liberty to say. The Commission is organizing a meeting earlier -- may the president forgive me -- not knowing about this from the AKP commissioners. I'm running from the group, and it's coming from me, friend of the AKP, and I ask you, aren't you going to the meeting? He doesn't know anything about it. God willing, he's in a very difficult position. Besides, we're here. The time of the meeting is one hour of our group meeting, which means it's not taken seriously. Okay, well, let's keep your time, but I mean, you can't ignore anyone else. And you don't have to have that meeting. I mean, I just want to say for once that it's not a good thing to be ridiculous like you're playing games, to fall into this state without being serious. The sector and Turkey are losing prestige. Unfortunately, last year's events in the industry have caused trouble. Now, what were you mentioned last year? What's most natural gas about? What did you do about explaining electricity prices, plus lighting up public opinion as a result of mining accidents? You're understood, you're seen. What did you do in public? That's how you made it sound. However, we would like to know what the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey, should do in the areas in which this sector bears the name of the Ministry. This is really important. We're asking you -- I didn't get to participate in the Commission study because of my other work -- but you're saying that the bill will be dictated by regulations. I'm asking, is your regulation draft ready? You don't think it's an insult to the MPs. You say that. However, if a serious government, a serious minister, is unable to draft the regulations of a bill he has brought, if he cannot prepare the regulations of the amendments, opposition and so on, then he is in a very difficult situation if he cannot submit it to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the commissions. I just told you, what does the Ministry have that's extraordinary for human resources, for personnel? He's got power, he's got human resources, and he's got quality. If you'd asked the people next to you, you'd have known it was going to be like this. This came as a really sad answer. God bless you if you're not ready for this. During the Ministry of Your Grace, Turkey had the opportunity to compare 2 Rexhep. One is President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and one is Uncle Recep of Ermenek, whose son was killed in a mining accident. I don't want to go into more detail and comment on this issue right now, but one of them is being sent by the government to buy a rubber shoe for $10 -- if what's written is true -- and one of them is being sent by the government for a cup, for whatever you drink -- for a thousand lira, not one. Now, you're the government, you're handing over the Prime Minister's office you're building, and you can't have the job you're doing. I'm also trying to say in this chapter, what's being done in this department about the cancellation of the license and the fine, the price of the registration, the price of the registration, the division of the environment, the fines and so on? It's being seen. Now, actually, there's something in this bill that I'd like to express specifically, and I'd like it to go into the transcripts. One is, with this bill, you're shutting down the Prime Minister. No matter what generality, no matter what mine it holds up, you're taking the authority, not to the Ministry, but to yourself. Look, this is important. You, other ministers in other proposals, are taking the powers to the minister, not to the Prime Minister, but to declare an almost extraordinary state of affairs. You're jumping the Prime Minister, avoiding the Prime Minister. He knows that, and I don't think this bill is aware of all the details. I'm telling you this once, let this pass. Now, you have a situation here in the private sector aimed at liquidating the small licenses available. Another story: an event called a basin pool could occur here. We'll see about that in the days ahead. What do I mean by that? You're pave the way for a make-up event in order to make the reserves of non-companies look more valuable. You know it or you don't know it, but I say it very freely, it's a case of the basin being included in the pool. For once, I want to say this in particular. When you look at the sector, there's the same share in the 2015 Year Programme in national income, the rise in production, January-June, about 7.3 in six months; there's a decline in exports, there's a decline in exports, there's a decline in imports, negative, when you look at it, there's something different in its share in total imports. As for investments... this is a document you presented to the High Planning Board. When we look at fixed capital investments as of sectors, what do you do with current prices? You say it's going to increase 29.5 percent in 2014, but it's going to increase by 8 percent in 2015. Now, when you look at the whole mining industry with fixed capital, where does your goal of 2015 come from in 2014 -- where do you predict that it will actually increase 12.2 percent? 1.7. In electricity, it goes down to negative 3.7. Now, when you look at the public... 61 percent of the public's mining is increasing -- the rate of increase in public investments, at current prices -- in 2015, that's 9.3. When you look at the public at the price of 1998 in mining, the increase falls to 2.5 percent, something like that. And then there's something else, and then there's a negative 15.1 investment increase in electricity. Now, when you look at the private... you've predicted a 25 percent increase in mining, there's going to be a 25 percent increase in the 2014. Let's go back to the private sector... and when we look at it, it's going to be 8 percent. 1.6%. Now, when we think about it, is it possible to say that this sector is getting better, Mr. Secretary? I just asked you a question. Turkey can't be managed. You're privatizing. The citizen doesn't pay the money, you say. Don't let anyone get undressed as the patronage of the company you've privatized. I called them yesterday, I talked to them, and I said, don't you have a lawyer? The Prime Minister's on his way there, he's talking about it. Why are you dropping this down to the border, Mr. Secretary? This is an event that clearly shows that this country cannot be ruled. I've just asked you, your company has demands for a war. Are you going to help me with this war demand, Dieten? Is it a happy, proud occasion for you to be in this situation? There are some paintings that just appeared here. This shows that part of the country is not clearly managed. I talked to that company, and they said the missing fugitive rates were low during the privatisation. The officers there may be trying to find fault, but the Privatisation Supreme Council has the signature of the ministers, including the Prime Minister. With that responsibility, you need to enlighten the community. We've been missing here, we've made a mistake, and now we've already got the country in trouble for the situation we discussed in this southeast, so we can't solve it now. Speak clearly enough to say. You will have no problem with that; and when you speak clearly, We will stand behind you until the end. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0091par0194	Thank you. Now, it's Haydar Akar who wants to speak on behalf of himself. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0092par0198	Mr. President, Congressman, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the truth of Turkey. We saw the truth of Turkey on the evening of December 27-28 and the week after that. Where did we see it? We've seen it in Bigeli. It's the largest industrial capital in all of Turkey. We call it a city that gives 12 to Turkey and gets 1. We call it a city that gets 1. How do we show it? Electricity. Now, after Mr. Secretary arrived and the AKP came to the government, they applied an electrical distribution policy or applied an energy policy. They said: "As a state, we cannot serve citizens, we cannot bring electricity to their feet, we cannot bring cheap, quality, technology-use electricity, so we will privatise these power distribution companies, we will make sure that citizens benefit better from electrical services by privatising TEDASH, or TEADŞ, or electricity distribution companies, right?," he said. We all know that, and in the heart of Turkey, at the heart rate, there were 48 hours, 72 hours of power outages. So, what did they bring? You brought the quality? Well, isn't that inferior to the knee? If the power goes out for 48 hours, if it goes out for 72 hours, if it happens in developed countries, believe me, the government falls. Believe me, our Minister of Energy doesn't care if the power goes out in America for 48 hours, the power goes out for 72 hours. I called him at 11:00 a.m., and he left at 11:00 a.m., that's right. There were 40 journalists. He said, "Peace be upon you," and I said, "Peace be upon you," and I said, "Yes, Mr. Minister, this is the case in hospitals where patients can't be operated, babies are cold, old people are cold, because 70 percent people are warm with natural gas, but it depends on electricity. We light the candle like we used to, we light the luxury, we sit down, we can't say... we've got electricity all over our lives. The minister says there's a disaster in the 24th district. There's snow on the expectations. So, when does management come out? It emerges by managing the crisis. (CHEERING) Here, you directed electricity like Soma that day, you directed electricity like Ermenek, and you didn't take anything for granted. In the past, in the years before that, we had never witnessed these 72-hour, 48-hour power outages when the government was handing out electricity. Again, here, we invested 25 million dollars. You said, "Well, we didn't see that investment when I went to my city." There are 10,000 poles of trees in a city like Kopeeli, 25 years old and 30 years old. Where's your technology, where's your quality, where's your employment? I've destroyed SEDASH, I've destroyed it, I really have, but I want to give it to you, this company has removed the subcontractorship. He reduced the employment, cut it by half, maybe a third of its rate, he was on the outside, but what the government couldn't do -- they're trying to privatise the production of the boron mines -- they're trying to subcontractors -- he did SEDAS, and he made subcontracted subcontractors there. I've got to hand it to you, but he can't run the power at the Masakile and Sakarya. Now, why did I tell you that here? Really, Turkey is a disaster. The Department of Energy is a disaster, a disaster in mines, a disaster in electricity production. A disaster in thermal power plants, a disaster in power distribution lines, transmission lines. There's not a single success. His only success is that he's produced 35,000 megawatts of energy. He did that by hand in the private sector because he guarantees buying. Everyone thinks where they're gonna spend their money, the best source is the government. There is also a Minister of Energy, who has opened his lap to us, saying, 'Take, plunder the state.' Well, they looted it. It's really looting the government. So, is the citizen getting service? Of course, citizens don't get service. Like I said, management comes out at a time like this. If you are unable to bring this electricity to 24 cities, as in developed countries, in democratic countries, you will go out, as Syriza is a government in Greece, and you will say, "I did not manage this crisis." You did not say soma, you did not say Ermenek. Mr. Secretary, I wonder when you'll tell me. When are you going to say that I can't handle this crisis, that I can't manage it? So, the day you say Turkey will start to improve itself, the day you say, our problems in electricity will be solved, our problems in the mines will be solved, our problems in other areas will be solved. But the citizen has to answer to them in the chest. He says if they don't answer, they'll continue to be condemned to darkness, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit04spe0093par0206	Thank you. Since there are no questions, there will be no questions and answers. So the talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-28sit05spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 48th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 683. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Commission for Information and Technology and Foreign Affairs Reports on the Approvement of the Covenant Act on the Development of Trade, Investments and Co-operation between the Kingdom of Sweden. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (January 29th 2015) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
