tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. III. Exposure We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, I'm speaking to my fellow lawmakers, especially on my left-hand side, we need to cut off the noise and noise in the General Assembly so we can monitor our fellow MPs who are going to speak off the agenda. Our standing friends, it would be better if you could take your conversations outside. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Lütfü Türkkan who wants to talk about the power cuts in Kopeli. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0002par0018	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have warned me that when it comes to blackouts, friends in other provinces are being cut off at our place. In particular, Aytuğ Hajji has a request, and in Mersin they are cut off, I might add. I've taken an off-the-book promise regarding the frequent blackouts of the Bigeli. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screens, with love and respect. For a long time, there have been blackouts. For a long time, our people who live in Abyssine have been condemned to darkness. Not only this year in my constituency, it's been like this for a long time. Who's in charge of the electricity distribution? Clumsy Electricity Distract, meaning SEDATE. Did you know that in the first ten months of 2012, Sedaş was powered down 59,000 times? Look, I'll tell you something, we've lost power 59,000 times. And if you think of it as an industrial city and it has factories that produce it, you might think a little bit more about how much damage this power outage has caused. Enter the Web site of SEDAS. See if you can find it. What does it say there? That's the expression that says, "It's an electric civilization." Is that your idea of civilization, my friends? Is it your understanding of electricity that condemns the Babylonian to darkness? Those who come from darkness, who go into darkness, have no purpose but to condemn him to darkness. You're already dark people. Citizens are victims of power shortages in Kopeeli. Especially because there's no electricity, the tradesmen are having a great deal of trouble. The strange thing is, the citizen calls SEDAŞ to report his complaint, but no official comes forward. The private sector provides better service and strengthens the network with infrastructure investments, they said. Therefore, electricity distribution and collection were transferred to private companies under the name "specialization" but not the foot of the goose. There are no complaints against SEDAŞ, the neighborhood chiefs are complaining, the village chiefs are complaining, the citizens are complaining, the mayors are complaining, even the Minister of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Fikri Ik is complaining.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0003par0024	I'm complaining, too.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0002par0025	Haydar Akar Bey is also complaining, yes. Science, Industry and Technology Minister Fikri came to the city to meet after long-term blackouts in Izlabule. At the meeting, he listened to SEDAS officials, and then he said: "You can't explain the lack of electricity for 72 hours in this age. " On January 2nd, he reacted to the lack of electricity in 24 villages. We haven't seen power outages this long since 2002. Hasn't it snowed in this country before? The trouble is, it's like it's something else. Or is there no proper maintenance and repairs being done? He asked and added: "There were no such long-term blackouts in the Marmara earthquake. " I ask from here, Mr. Secretary: Who was the partner of power then? It was the National Movement Party. So that did not happen in our coalition government. We'd be lying if we told the Minister we weren't pleased to hear this confession. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the transformers are either old or neglected in the villages where we kept their pulses at Kopeeli. It's said that the villagers tell us such things that you don't know if you're laughing or crying. They say that even a strong wind blowing in some of the villages of Kopeleli caused a power outage, even when storks were placed on the electric poles, electricity was cut off. The cats who entered the transformers during the election began entering the transformers at the time of the winter. I, too, speak of the troubles of our peasants in the questions I've made. Mr. Energy Minister's response is that the transformers in the villages are usually maintained regularly, controlled by programed work, but it's obvious. Dear friends, don't let anyone expect us to believe that the power outages that have been seen in Kobeleli are related to the weather. I'll tell you one thing, the main reason for power outages is infrastructure failure. The private sector does not develop, service and invest according to the need for infrastructure, and the political government cannot answer for it. We also have a question. Are you a partner in SEDASH? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you. By the way, don't say cats while you're criticizing each other, I'll say it as a cat lover.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0002par0033	Let those who use cats for evil purposes think.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0004par0034	No, no, I'm not talking about you. Don't say cats in all kinds of political criticism, that's what I'm saying. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ilyas Sektal, who asked for a comment on poor water sources and the incentive for gray water use as a result of global warming. Now they're going to tell me that he's being optimistic and Mr. Akar spoke yesterday. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0005par0040	Mr. President, I have made a promise to the esteemed lawmakers that due to global warming, there are insufficient water sources and incentives for the use of gray water. Global warming has its effect on climate changes and droughts in our country, as in the world. In today's world, the decline in clean water resources has grown to alarming proportions. Two and a half percent of the total amount of water in the world is found in rivers and lakes as fresh water. Clearly, because of the 90 percent of fresh water is found in the poles and underground, the adequate amount of fresh water we need is insufficient. The average consumption of water per capita in the world is around 800 cubic metres per year. 1.4 billion people in the world lack sufficient drinking water and 2.3 billion people long for healthy water. Turkey, according to the amount of available water per person, is a country that suffers from water stress and is poor of water. For this, we must make conscious water consumption, use of gray water, and use of rainwater mandatory. In the future, it is important that the drinking water and its resources be used efficiently and that the necessary measures be taken immediately so that the cities will not be dehydrated. From my constituency, Kobeeli. Due to the inadequacy of the Kövaljutuk Dam, the Kovaliye Metropolitan Municipality and ISU General Directorate also met the city's future water supply for water transfer from Lake Sapanca to Lake Sapanca, and the city's future water supply from Lake Sapanca to Lake Sapanca to Lake Sapanca, and the Promotion System Project with Jesus and the Promotional System. In addition, the city of Yalova transferred the right to use water in Yalova Gökçadere Dam for Yalova's water supply to Yalova, and in 2014 it transferred 1 million cubic metres of water to Yalova. As a result of the drying of the Nesty Dam in 2013, 2014, the city's water supply of Lake Sapanca - Yuvaluk Dam promotion system was provided by transferring its line from Lake Sapanca to the Nesty Dam. As the water level from Lake Sapanca fell to 29,27 meters [29,27 m], the level of water was raised, especially in recent days, with rain and water transferred from the Nesty Dam to Lake Sapanca. With snow and rain, hopefully, Lake Sapanca will reach the desired level of 32,18 meters as soon as possible. As a poor water country, as in developed countries, we have to use wastewater again, to purify it. We shouldn't waste clean water. By reducing consumption pressure on drinking water, wastewater recycling projects are an important part of the fresh water use strategy. Purified wastewaters have been reusable in the garden irrigation and industrial facilities, as the ISU General Directorate has successfully implemented in wastewater treatment facilities, and has been renamed a project called "Grey water." These studies by the Kopeleli Metropolitan Municipality are as interested abroad as they are in our country, and technical delegations from many countries are visiting Alexei for information exchanges, to study and see work on recycling water from many countries. I'm celebrating this project, which is indispensable to human life and is important to the country. In addition, with the investments of the ISU General Directorate in the infrastructure, water has been lost and reduced its fugitive rates to less than 30 per cent from 70 per cent. As a result of these successful studies, TÜSIAD and Turkey won first place in the annual E-Turkey Project competitions organised by the IT Foundation at TBMM, which will stay in the final this year, hoping to compete with a second project tomorrow, and the name of this project is the Drink Water, Sewer and Infrastructure Information System Project. Because of the successful work done by the Kopeeli Metropolitan Municipality and the ISU General Directorate, I congratulate both the Slovenian Metropolitan Municipality and the ISU General Manager and his staff, who have been involved in these projects, and I wish them success in their future work. I salute our esteemed citizens and the General Assembly who are watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk, a member of the Zonguldak MP who asked about Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation. Here you go, Mr. Kokturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's that?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. President, we're here to light the lantern from the House. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation and the stone coal basin. First, I salute the High Council and all of our mine workers, all of our mine martyrs with respect and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, the production of stone coal that began in the Zonguldak basin a hundred and sixty-six years ago after the establishment of our republic, was first handed over to Etibanka, then to TİKIE, and in 1983 all businesses in the stone coal basin were organized as a whole. The EKI, formerly known as TTK, has been the lifeblood of both Zonguldak and our country for many years. Due to the fact that our country is the only smellable coal basin in our country, during the development of our republic, the most important heavy industrial institutions of our country, such as ERDEMIR, ERDEMIR, CATES, have been located in the region, established in the region, and have shouldered our country's heavy industrial institutions with all its strength. As this mission was carried out, great sufferings were paid, huge costs were paid, but new workers were not allowed to be replaced by ground-retarded miners, due to the ongoing privatisation approach of the AKP-era OSCEs, which began after the 1980s. As a result of these restrictions, the production of stone coal, which was approaching 5 million tonnes in the 1970s, was reduced to the lowest in the last 72 years by 1.3 million tons during the AKP's rule in 2013. In the Redevans areas in the basin, the production of stone coal, which was around 1 million tons in 2008, was estimated at 500,000 tonnes in 2013. On the other hand, employment, such as production in the basin, has been severely reduced. In 2002, there were 15,792 employees at Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation, while as of September 2014, the number of employees fell to 9.240. Although the institution's norm staff was 14,000, the demand of the TTK General Directorate and the GMİSK to take 3,200 workers to the institution immediately was unfortunately not met by AKP power, nor were the promises made in the polls. Unfortunately, the Court's reports of lack of workers causing production shortages in the institution, increased losses, and serious security problems have been ignored. Due to lack of labor, subcontractorising preparations at the TTK was the main cause of the disaster of the flu, where we lost 30 or 8 of our miners in Kozlu, and 30 in Gelik. In addition, the institution's rate of implementation of investments remained at a very low level of 28 per cent as of September 2014. Also in private sector companies, the latest intensive layoffs in Kandilli have deepened the existing problems in the basin. Dear lawmakers, despite all of this, no strategic plan has been devised by the Justice and Development Party's government for the institution and the basin, so no strategic plan for solving problems has been laid out by the AKP. The Tenth Development Plan, and the Central Future Program, unfortunately, did not include targets to improve, improve, increase the production of local stone coals, which are almost at a standstill. This has become a direct threat to the energy supply and independence of our country, which has not only been working in coal mines in the basin, but has paid 4 billion dollars per year to import and import about 27 million tonnes of stone each year, not only for the economic and social life of the Zonguldak, who has emigrated 45,000 years. Dear lawmakers, for these reasons, the situation of the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation and the stone coal basin must be immediately put on the table as a whole. The agency has 14,000 norms and close to 5,000 workers' deficits unresolved despite heavy labor deficits must be dealt with immediately. Investments should be increased, investments should be increased, and the amount of production should be increased, the implementation of sub-secure operations under the security issue should be abandoned, the pay inequality that disrupts business peace at work must be eliminated, and the miner's lantern should continue to illuminate our entire country with all its glory, not just with the sweat and labor of the past. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0008par0063	Thank you. Is that statue yours?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0007par0065	I can present the statue to you, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0008par0066	No, no, you mean you're giving it to someone?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0007par0067	Yes, I'll give it to you as a gift to the AKP Group.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0008par0068	Give it to him as a gift. Okay, I'm just asking, honey, okay, thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0007par0069	I'm going to give it to the AKP Group, hoping they'll look after it. I'm giving it to Mr. Doğan.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. President, extracurricular talks are about the progress of problems that have caused citizens to suffer through the Turkish Grand National Assembly bench, but there has been a tradition, no government member in non-responsibility talks is in Parliament. And in respect of Parliament, I demand that the government be warned by your presidency. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0010par0072	I see, well, thank you. Now, according to the 60th article, I'm going to make a very short promise to 10 of our friends. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, trucks carrying the Republic daily have been stopped today, examined for forty-five minutes, contacted by phone with newspapers and prosecutors, given information, and allowed trucks to move on when the will to stop those trucks did not detect a threat to them. It is shameful to reveal the point of freedom of the press in Turkey, a clear indication of what power will do when there is news he does not want. From here, I salute the executives and employees of the Republic newspaper. And I salute all the workers who don't sell their pens, don't bend, don't bend, don't do journalism.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give you an example of how this power, besides taking teachers and graduates, has taken care of our current teachers in Çanakkale. It has been two and a half years since they claimed that the beautiful school building they built by the sea would be destroyed and that it would only be shown as an old building. Our teachers are on the street, our teachers are unclaimed. Our teachers will be included in the retired teachers, and they won't be able to go anywhere at the time. When I asked the National Department of Education and the Ministry of National Education about this, they said, "We're going to pay for it first, and we're going to do the teacher's house outside." However, in AKP's general opinion, the fact that our teachers have been thrown out of the center of the city in the sense of Rant raises questions as to whether they will be taken by an executive from the AKP. When I asked you what's wrong with this teacher's home in two and a half years...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0010par0084	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Life stops when it snows in Ankara. Adding power outages, people are in danger of freezing in their homes. When it rains in Ankara, the gates are filled with water, images that resemble Venice. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, which has not made an effort to resolve these problems, leaving the citizens alone with its fate, has become a hawk when it comes to collecting and tracking asphalt coins. The immediate execution, foreclosure and pursuit of citizen-cut astronomical asphalt money is under way. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality acts as a tax falcon and a manager in the ministry. O AKP, a citizen cannot pay for asphalt; you are in no position to seize the citizen, you must find a solution. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has dropped the ball to Parliament and the Council of Ministers on asphalt tribute over reactions. I'm calling on the House to remove the citizens from their asphalt clamps, and the authorities must do what is necessary for the return of the collected asphalt coins. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0014par0089	Dear Light...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The loss of many of our citizens has reached a great deal as a result of the failure to pay the price of land roads in many of our country's provinces and districts. For example, in construction of the road between Simav-Hisarcık, the province of Kütahya, some of the people or companies who did the work through service have not earned their dues, even though it has been over a year. Also, the publicisation and dismantling costs on the Abyssinian road and Simav-Ironian road route have not been paid until now, I'm afraid. Our citizens and the people or companies who work on these constructions have informed us that their victims should be resolved immediately. I'm transmitting it through you to the government and the relevant institutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0016par0094	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Charlie Hebdo, who was attacked last week, is released with 3 million editions in 16 languages with a new issue that will be released today. The daily has decided to publish part of the magazine, which will issue its first issue in solidarity, considering its sensitivities. However, on this report, the police first took security measures in front of the newspaper's building in Istanbul, and the roads leading to the newspaper were blocked. Besides the printing press, the police stopped the delivery trucks. Police officers checked the paper for 40 minutes. Police officials called the prosecutor's office to inform them of the broadcast and were allowed to distribute control trucks after the prosecutor's office informed them that the Charlie Hebdo cover cartoon was not in the election. Who gave this order, and why? Who's trying to make the Republic look like a target? For the record, the Republican newspaper is a republic. It means he's targeting our republic that's targeting the Republic. I'm protesting this censorship and targeting. My regards to the people of the Republic.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0018par0099	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. No reason can justify and legitimize the brutal murder of people for any purpose. Humanity's common reaction to terror in France is crucial, but it is also necessary and necessary to wait in Turkey, in Kerkok, in Musul, Gaza, Damascus, Baghdad. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu joins the march to curse terror in France, while turning a barrel against the Turkish nation and embracing the blood-soaked at the highest level is a contradiction and a double standard. The terrorists were wandering the streets of Paris when our nation gave birth to their babies in terror and arson. As our outposts were raided and Mehmetchiks fell to the ground, the villains appeared in different countries of Europe. Instead of acting on a double standard in terrorism, it is possible to get results if the whole world and humanity fight against terrorism altogether. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. The two-way road, which connects the slap to the Black Sea through Niksar, has not been completed for many years, unfortunately. That's what's causing a lot of victims. This year, there is a significant expectation of funding for road construction. I'd like to call the government on this. In the province of Tokat, the farmers of Kazova, Zile, Kelkit, Artova are also telling us that their homes are being carried out by constant calls. The Ministry of Agriculture and the government are expected to restructure farmers' debt. In particular, banks and agricultural loans have become unpayable. Also, the private sector, where they buy seeds, medicines, diesels and so forth, is at the farmer's throat. If no immediate measures are taken, their homes will be sold by the executive agencies. Also, spring preparation for the next agriculture period is not made because it is not a source. The situation is urgent and grave. From here we call to the government: "Hear the voice of the manufacturers and do what is necessary." Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0022par0112	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0023par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The Bill of the Protection of Personal Data Law was discussed today at the European Union's Compliance Commission. Both lawmakers and representatives of NGOs and sectors participating in the Commission saw that the bill constitutes open discrepancies to the European Union's acne. Unfortunately, the Justice Department bill contradicts the directives of the European Union and the European Union's Court of Justice resolutions, particularly the 9546th Amendment. This bill, written with no knowledge of my governance without the participation of sector representatives, NGOs and other shareholders, will be the subject of major criticism in the European Union progress reports if it becomes legal as it is. He hopes that the mistakes made during the creation of the Turkish Human Rights Institution will not be repeated on the Personal Data Protection Board, and I would like to remind you once again that with the amendments to the Justice Commission and the General Assembly, we demand a framework in line with the European Union's acquisitor.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0024par0117	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. A genocide is being carried out against Turkmen in Kerkuk. Turkmen leaders in Kerkuk are expecting this kind of help from Turkey and the world. Families whose population administrations have been burned, whose farms and properties have been taken from them by force, whose children have been kidnapped, can't tell anyone about their problems. Turkishmen leaders seeking rights are killed by various assassinations. To protect the rights of Turkmen who have been handed over to Pesmerge, should the Turkmen go to Kerkuk, and have their names made by the Turkmen to be by their side so that the Prime Minister can go and take care of them? In East Turkistan, the Chinese are inflicting great persecution on the Uygur Turks. He's facing atrocities that human history has never seen before. I invite the government and humanity to stop this persecution.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0024par0121	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0026par0123	Mr. President, thank you. In recent days, natural climate conditions have changed, heavyness has resulted in electrical failures from the storms, from the rains, from the underpants. In particular, in the Mediterranean region -- Isparta, Burdur, Antalya -- there is a shortage of electricity, electrical wires have been cut. The private company, which is a falcon, is acting as a proprietary means to repair the malfunction. We are receiving complaints from the citizens of Antalya, Burdur, and Isparta. I, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, to warn this private company, to repair the malfunction immediately, because in this area, I'm alive, and the cows are made of machine milk. When there's no electricity, cows get chest pains and animals suffer from material loss. He points out the urgency of this matter, and I warn our government.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0024par0125	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three general consultation motions, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the reflection of the events in Syria, we would like to submit a general discussion on behalf of the National Party of Actions to discuss economic issues in cities bordered to Syria, and on the basis of the additional grounds provided by Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Turkey-Suriye relations, which have been held primarily in the area of trade and tourism, and joint investment agreements among businessmen and joint Council of Ministers between the two countries in recent years, have reached the end of the AKP government's policies that seem to support opposition in the country, and the bill of tension between the two countries has been raised to regions bordering with Syria. The economies of cities such as Hatay, Kilis, Gaziantep, Mardin and Şanlıurfa, who are particularly close to Syria, have begun to be affected. Hatay was the head of our country's cities leading the fields of exports, narcissism, agricultural production, trade and international transportation until just a year ago, while his economy became a dead-end because of this tense situation. The total exports of seven borders, neighbouring and regional provinces, including Gaziantep, Hatay, Kilis, Mardin, Mersin, Osmaniye and Şanlıurfa, were reduced by 58 per cent in the first seven months. The export of seven provinces to Syria in the first seven months of last year, which was $174.5 million, remained at 82.3 million this year, reaching 85 per cent in July, especially the decline in the exports of these provinces to Syria. In the cities where asylum seekers are located, rents have increased by three times, and citizens of our country, who have to live in the region, are unable to rent a house. Gaziantep and Hatay hosted the most important border crossings of export transport to Syria and the Middle East, while transport and logistics firms rose to number one among the most damaged groups as the crisis began. After closing the customs gates on the Syrian border, Turkey's exports to Syria and 11 Middle East countries via Syria have reached a halt. The fact that the trucks were transported from Mersin Harbor to Egypt by the Ro-Ro ships didn't solve the problem. The length of the expedition and the height of the cost of the navl have left limited amounts of export goods sent with Ro-Ro. The total number of vehicles from the border crossings common with Syria from 2000-2011 for exports was 140,000, while crossings from the border from 15 March 2011 began in Syria. In early 2012, the Syrian administration closed the Akchakale Border Gate unilaterally, adding to the crisis, the number of vehicles passing through the door in the first six months of 2012 was recorded at 631. Following Turkey's lift of visas with Syria, citizens of this country began to come to the provinces of the East Mediterranean and Southeast to trade day-to-day, and Turkish citizens, in a similar way, shopped especially in Syria and boosted the trade of bilateral relations. However, the day-to-day trips to Hatay, Mardin and Antalya, following the closure of the border crossing in Syria, have also been affected by restaurants, hotels and retailers. The tension has directly affected the economy of cities such as Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Hatay, Gaziantep, Kilis, where most tourists have formed. Until the crisis, 98.4 per cent of the annual number of tourists hosted by Shanlıurfa from the borders and district provinces, 81.3% of the tourists who came to Mardin, 71.8% of Hatay's tourists, 54.4% in Gaziantep, 28.8 per cent in Kilis, increased their income in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, especially after the mutual removal of visas between Syria and Turkey from 16 September 2009. Investors in the region are having trouble paying loans along with the crisis, and tax revenues collected from these provinces have also been severely reduced. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although on 22 June 2012, Syria crashed our RF-4-type reconnaissance aircraft about four months later and a variety of neighbouring/Allied states had been exchanged information over radar records related to the unfortunate incident, a satisfactory idea of information has not been compiled. We would like to submit a general discussion on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group in accordance with Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution to assess the functionality of various NATO air defence systems and radars on our soil. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Since 1952, the Republic of Turkey has been a member and member of NATO for 60 years. Our government has fully fulfilled the conditions and obligations of membership and has been involved in several military-peace operations during this time. In particular during the Cold War, NATO, which was important to our national security, expressed a point of the fight against international terrorism in its single polar world order following the dissolution of the Soviet bloc. The United States (US), which is also NATO's greatest power and is our traditional ally, has been seriously co-operated with the United States, especially after 1991, to promote human rights on a global scale. Having been a member of NATO, the Republic of Turkey has had air defence systems and radars in its territory in some of its recent sections, taking on its responsibility for the threats to our country and NATO members from the outside. Under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, which was launched following 9/11 attacks, TBM issued a statement on 10/10/2001, allowing the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to Afghanistan under the NATO mission (see Operation Continuum Freedom). Article 5 of the NATO Treaty is open. According to this, an armed attack on any member state will be launched on all members and immediately under NATO umbrella under Article 51 of the Nations that united the aid of the member who was attacked. However, on 22 June 2012, the Syrian state was shot down in an unarmed reconnaissance flight in international airspace, which resulted in two of our soldiers being martyrs. At this point, NATO has not adopted the Fifth Amendment, although it has been attacked by a member of its member, but it has a more crucial dimension. The United States, the first force of our ally and NATO, has repeated over and over again that despite all the technological and military resources it has in the region and in our country, it has handed over its radar records to government officials about our plane that was shot down. In the same way, we've had the opportunity to monitor from national and international media that Russia, which we know is close to Syria, has given some information to the government in a similar way. Despite our open rights to international law, the government has given up and covered up the debates. Assuming the government's information to public and political parties is correct, either the information our allies (and other states) have given us is incompatible or there is a serious deformation. It's because we believe the government won't lie to the nation and its representatives, which we find more appropriate to focus on first class. In this context, we believe that a general discussion within the TBM would benefit from discussing the functionalities of the national, NATO and the (varsa) US air defence systems and radars. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, where the proportion of the disabled population is 12 per cent, we present a general discussion on behalf of the Millitarian Movement Party Group, which shall be held under Articles 101, 102 and 103 of the Constitution, due to the rights and behavior of disabled citizens, which are defined by the practicality of rights. With all due respect. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President According to Turkey's "Investigation of the disabled" in 2002, 12 per cent of Turkey's population is created by disabled citizens. As there has been no current research done since 2002, as this figure has been available to 8.5 million people, "The ministry's work is being carried out to clarify the number of disabled people throughout Turkey, as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy (7/3956) has said in response to our main question proposal. This includes 1,241,854 disabled individuals registered to the National Responsibility Data Table (PLA) living and address known." It's written. In our country, various legal regulations and agreements have been given to our disabled citizens in order to maintain a better quality of life, to become equal accessibility to healthy individuals in daily and social life, to improve their ministry in education, work, health and so forth. Our country has approved and signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled, but no research has been conducted on the number of disabled citizens living in our country until 2002, following a study conducted by the 57th Republic government. Education, health, rehabilitation, employment and so on in advanced communities. The rights they have in fields have been secured by various laws, regulations, and regulations, and regulations, and, if they are denied or abused, legal sanctions have been imposed for those responsible for the public. The issue is also under oath in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled. Although our country is on the side of the contract, it is unfortunately impossible to say that the provisions required by contract were implemented for disabled individuals living within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. A significant increase in disability employment during the 2005-2011 period, however, was indicated by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy (7/3956), where the total number of disabled people employed was unknown. In our country, where the proportion of the disabled population is 12 per cent, according to the investigation of the "Responsibles of Turkey," which was carried out during the 57th Government, it is imperative that the Constitution be opened "Generial Talks" under Articles 101, 102 and 103, under Articles 101, 102, and 103, as a result of the rights and actions recognised to disabled citizens. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. There's a review of the Chairman, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk's election of the Council Research Commission, which aims to investigate the Problems of Seasonal Agricultural Workers, which needs to be taken into account: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk election 13/1/2014 Wednesday at 18 p.m. They were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Civil Charter, following the draft of the 15 ballots that were collected and used by the following members with their names and last names written against them. Your information, with all due respect. Mehmet Süleyman Hamzağları (Diyarbakir) 10 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are similar arguments that some lawmakers have withdrawn signatures on Mr. Taner Yildiz (11/42) of energy and natural resources (11/42). I'm reading the first thesis and the signatures in all the other papers: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (11/42) I'm withdrawing my signature from the primary geneorial motion. I'll give you what you need. [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sakarya]] [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Janitor]] [[Sivas]] [[Mughle]] It has been presented to your knowledge. (11/42) Since there are not enough signatures left for the primary geneorial motion, the motion has been removed from the operation. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move to the part of the Commission's Other Affairs With Law Bills and Proposals. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, ranking 1st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the 3rd Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law Proposals and Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. The Commission and the Government? Here. According to the 91st article of the Civil Code, the 5th article in the first chapter of the draft was adopted yesterday. There are two motions in the 6th article, which I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is 6th. Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ί1) Capital stores and chain stores and franchise business and private authorities cannot demand a bonus or price from the manufacturer or supplier if it does not directly affect the demand for products, such as the opening and renovation of the store, the turnover deficit, the bank and credit card accession price and so on. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Sumer Oral Kemalettin Yılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 rows are the 6th edition of "The Bill of Law on the Order of retail trade." Article (2). We propose and propose that the "type and ratio of the contract" and the second sentence of the joke be removed from the article text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Süleyman Çelebi Do you agree with the commission motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0027par0268	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0024par0269	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0028par0271	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today we began our talks on the 6th article of the law on the regulation of retail trade. I also mentioned yesterday that we're discussing a framework bill, a proposal, here, that it's not enough to solve the problems of the tradesman and artist, but I'd like to make it clear that, as a framework law, we're going to fill that framework later, especially in the Republican People's Party government, we're going to make the tradesman and the artist comfortable. Only then will this law have its true function. It is clear that the view of the government at the point of protecting and protecting the tradesman and the artist is not enough. Mr. Prime Minister spoke today at a meeting of the tradesmen's bail co-ops. They say that when this law comes out, it will solve the problems of all tradesmen and artists, and by this law, the tradesman and artist will overcome all the problems ahead of you! So I'm telling you, we're trying to get this law to come out as a framework law, but it doesn't solve the problems of the tradesman and artist, it makes the current situation permanent. The elders continue to strengthen the power of the strong, restricting them, limiting their oppression and control over minors, preventing the current malls from being limited to opening from now on, preventing the tradesman and artist from being victimised by discount stores and chain stores. In that sense, I think the Prime Minister's information is incomplete, which is not enough to explain that everything is being resolved today. My dear friends, in the 6th article we're talking about today, let me say one thing in this sense: we're setting a limitation, but how is the understanding of power in this limitation? The (1)th joke says he can't get paid under any name, and when the industrialist sells goods, he can't get anything but the price of his property. But (2) the third joke says, "You know what he says?" Friends, what does that mean? I'm going to go to a store to sell goods, don't they put in my contract, their prices, what they want, what they want? That's what you're doing here. So we say: under no reputation, negotiate for the price, deal for the industry's product, then put it on a shelf, advertise for you, don't buy a new store under 27 names like that. These prices sometimes come to the point that we've seen in practice that some manufacturers, when they make a total assessment at the end of the year, they're worth more than the cost of property. Now you open up these prices with the contract, and then you say: "We protect the KOBI, we protect the industry. You give them the right to protect them by contract in the face of the AVM's purchasing power. That's the thing. For that, we offer you an opportunity to open the way for what we've brought here, a price that should not be taken under a reputation. If you're thinking about tradesmen and artists, SMEs, manufacturers, you'll support our proposal. So we provide an environment where manufacturers don't have to pay a price in front of underage people in the dim corridors of those big malls. So, I'm here to support our motion, pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0029par0278	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0030par0279	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit01spe0029par0280	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... all those inadmissible. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit02spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame and his friends' motion, which was issued on Article 675 of the Law Bill. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote of Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesam and his friends' motion on Article 675 was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The Commission and the Government are here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is 6th. Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ί1) Capital stores and chain stores and franchise business and private authorities cannot demand a bonus or price from the manufacturer or supplier if it does not directly affect the demand for products under the market opening and renovation, turnover deficit, bank and credit card accession price and so on. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Is the commission in? We're giving you credit, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0031par0015	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0029par0016	Mr. Light, what are we doing?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0032par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0029par0018	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The arrangement aims to prevent some problems that can be made in practice. I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the accepted motion, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 7 there are two proposals, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 is the 7th draft law on the Order of Business on the Curtain. Article 1. We propose and propose the release of the phrase "fast consumption goods that can be corrupted within 30 days from the date of production" in its joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 is the 7th draft law on the Order of Business on the Curtain. Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ==References======================================================================================================================================================================================================================= ================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================= However, the deadline for payments on fast consumer goods, which could be corrupted within 30 days of production history, cannot exceed 30 days from the date of surrender, when the creditor or supplier is small and medium-sized, while the debtor is a large-scale business," he said. Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Sumer Oral Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0033par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0029par0044	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0034par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from you on the 7th Amendment of the Law Bill 675 rows, and I salute the High Assembly. The arrangement with the motion is intended for medium-sized businesses to benefit from the arrangements brought in. Members of parliament, the tradesmen and artists in our country have been fighting for years to come up with a law that concerns them and the malls; from time to time they have collected signatures, held rallies. Especially the Slapman, the Kütahian, Manisalı, the Afyonite, all the tradesmen's rooms have worked very hard to make their voices heard about it. Because they considered the law to be an important opportunity for the loss of bread boats and not to become unemployed. But we see together that the law, unfortunately, does not respond well enough to its expectations. They expected small tradesmen and artists to be protected according to Article 173 of the Constitution. Unfortunately, in our country today -- including many towns -- they do not have the power to fight randomly opened shopping malls and chain stores. The fact that a supermarket branch has been opened has closed down 70 small trades with it. In the imperialistic methods of brutal capitalism, the little ones are, unfortunately, being swallowed, and the rich add wealth to wealth. The small shopkeeper wants the mall to be closed on holiday days and one day of the week and to have a breath of their own. The population expects branches to be opened according to the state of development and the state to support them. As of today, we have to say that there is no tradesman, no debt, no credit from the bank, or from the tradesmen's loan co-ops, who don't owe money to other places. In the last ten years, small tradesmen and artists have been almost so heavily in debt that they are now facing three times as many executions as they have in the past. A tradesman who can't pay off his debts is also in the position of losing his job. And with that law coming out, I'm guessing that the small tradesman will lose a lot, maybe even more, by paying off his debts. In that sense, we are bound to offer some new opportunities, such as tax ease and discount, because when those people are sick, when they can't go to their store, they close, they lose their income, they lose their income. As the worker's salary continues when the worker doesn't work, so the tradesman must make sure that the tradesman can't pay his debt, but he can't pay his social security premiums, so he can't even benefit from health. The law has been brought to the malls to make arrangements for local products, as well as for tradesmen in those areas. It's a beautiful thought, so it's planned to leave space in the malls, but we want to say that its practicality is questionable. The law could have described the subject in a better way, and the small manufacturer could have been protected in this mealde, but unfortunately it hasn't been done. So we're dealing with a blind limp law. So, unfortunately, we're missing a very important opportunity. But we think it would be better if all parties involved in the law were invited, especially trade rooms units, NGOs, and committees were invited here because it was an exciting law that we've been talking about for years, but unfortunately, by bringing this law to an end, we're seeing it quickly, without too much discussion. But as a framework law, it's also good at some point. The inside of this frame can be filled in time ahead of time, but the bag we've always seen is being made with the laws we've seen. Without such a path, some adjustments could have been made more comfortable, depending on the number of small tradesmen and artists, or at work, by the level of development in those areas, or, again, by the condition of people in those areas. Because the numbers of small tradesmen are about 10 million with their families. A number over 10 million is not a small number. In particular, in an environment where unemployment is increasing in our country, farmers, agricultural people, civil servants, pensioners are struggling to make a living under heavy conditions, it is also necessary not to push tradesmen in this direction. I don't think any of us have the right to leave people hungry and open. Therefore, we have not lost time at the point of better adoption of this law, but it can be supported by motions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe that these will be announced from place to place, and I wish that the law would come out on this occasion, even if it were this way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0035par0061	Thank you, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 is the 7th draft law on the Order of Business on the Curtain. Article 1. We propose and propose the release of the phrase "fast consumption goods that can be corrupted within 30 days from the date of production" in its joke. Vahap Selects (Mersin) and Friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0036par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0035par0071	Mr. Chooser, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0037par0073	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. We're making arrangements today for a bill that's been debated for many, many years. And yesterday, my friends here who've been reviewing the subject said that the arrangement that's been going back to this snake story for about 20 years, hopefully, will one day come to an end. But unfortunately, the desired arrangements are not being made, Mr. Secretary, by the tradesman, by the artist. You agreed to this yesterday. It's like he's giving birth to a mountain rat, so to speak. And why are you doing this, Mr. Secretary? Yesterday, I took it out of the transcripts, and I listened to you very carefully here, and you're saying that although it's been attempted for many years, it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and So, in a sense, let's not do the accounting of the past. But why? You answer it yourself: there are hypermarkets, and there are malls, and they are rooted in this way of commerce, shopping malls, this structure is rooted, so we can't be too interactive. Okay. These problems will continue, we need to be realistic. You're denying a ban? When you're going to an election, you put a finger in the shop's mouth? There's no need for you to take so much time from the Commission and Parliament. If you're going to make a radical change, it's a sin on my head. On the one hand, it's a tradesman -- I'm saying it in a nail -- it's like cheating before the election. Now, what does the shopkeeper want? It says: I am facing unfair competition. From the 2000s, I looked at the number of AVMs, and it is expected to reach 409 in 2015, as of 2014, when it rose from 50 to 334. So there's no stopping. Why have these malls increased so much? You've been in power for 12 years. Five years ago, seven years ago, eight years ago, if you did this arrangement, would the number of malls increase in hypermarkets? For God's sake, do you think the money that goes into their pouches contributes to some socioeconomic classes in our society? The profits from the turnover here are going abroad, Mr. Secretary. We care about the tradesman. There are 1.5 million tradesmen in Turkey. It's not what the Prime Minister said at the Trade Credit Cooperatives meeting this morning. He says: "The number of people who have used 1 million loans has increased to 1 million. This is not a place to brag about. If I need money, I'll use a loan. If the number of people using loans is increasing in society, then there is a financial crisis in this sector, in the business, in the artist. It's 70 billion dollars in loans from the tradesman, Mr. Secretary. So he's facing major problems, then, the tradesman. What did you do? So you said yesterday: we've made arrangements for the tradeshop, we haven't made arrangements for the malls, we haven't made arrangements for the hypermarkets. The most important problem is not to be in the city, let's send the malls out of the city. It's an important arrangement. When you make such an arrangement, you make an arrangement for the interests of the tradesman. Working hours: You've given these hours to the governors, I agree, each area has its own structure, another in the east, another in the west. The working hours can be arranged according to climate conditions, but you have not made an arrangement to close the malls at least once a week. Now, what's the local tradesman gonna do? There are all kinds of possibilities, opportunities, supermarkets. He's a mass shopper, he's got money, he's got more access to finance, he's got cheaper financing, he's able to make production for himself, he's able to rent a shelf. How will the small tradesman compete with them? In fact, you know these things better than I do, and you're in control of your case, but please don't fool us or the citizen. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0038par0080	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 8 there are three proposals, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the term "in addition to the names, titles or brand of the manufacturer" in the 8th article of the current law bill 675 rows, "in addition to the wages taken by workers and in accordance with the working hours." Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, The current 675 is the 8th edition of "The Law's Plan on Editing Performance Trade." Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. " (1) The store, which is produced in the country and is made of fast consumer goods, is located above and/or in the packaging, in the retailer's name, title or brand, as well as according to the manufacturer's name, title or brand, and easily readable." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th edition of the current 675 Orders of the Law on Editing of Business. Article II found at the bottom. We propose that the joke be added, that the other jokes be identified accordingly. The store-branded products cannot be more than 20% of all the products found in the store. This includes products belonging to companies owned or partnered by retail business or shareholders." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Kemal Millendereli Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0039par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0038par0109	Mr. Millerdere, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0040par0111	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the 8th article of this law is the quality of branded products in large stores. Now, here, in the big stores, in the supermarkets, store branded products, we say should not exceed 20 percent. Why should it not exceed 20 percent? The issue in this article -- only -- is that wherever production is made in the hypermarkets, their brands, their addresses can be written down. A different application has been introduced, but you also know that those markets produce under their own names. So we have a demand that this doesn't exceed 20 percent. Because they're making cheap production and causing trouble for industry and industry. How do they create it? Look, very clearly, after my speech here yesterday, our oil producer friends in Thrace called me, Mr. Secretary, about that. In Tracia, we produce five litres of sunflower oil for $18, including the Thracian Union, the cost of our production is $18, but the same amount of sunflower oil is $16.90. I mean, I make it for $18; I should be able to sell it for at least $19, 20, but the big market sells it for 16.90. Then how will we live? We don't have a chance to compete, they say. Now, on the other hand, sunflower producers have low prices, and there's a problem. Here, the sunflower maker is a victim and the industrialist is a victim. Here's another thing: again, there's a record of payment in thirty days for people who have lost their product in these big businesses, but you can appreciate that they're being paid on credit cards, and then they go into their accounts the next day, and the next day, it's probably going into their accounts. So he buys it in advance at the hypermarket, from that big store of consumers. However, we need to get the manufacturer to bring this legal limitation of 30 days from the small manufacturers who have been broken in just 30 days. That's one of the most important things, Minister. Again, I'm getting calls. I've just presented to you, I mean, beyond the improvements here, a very important improvement that the tradesman has been waiting for is the subject of a record pardon. Years ago, three years, five years, ten years ago, there's no credit left because of a small bank account protested by a payment he made. This is very important again. Another important issue, of course, is one of the main issues that forces the tradesman of the economy, what does the tradesman say? I'm asking the tradesmen in Edirne, or in our counties, they're not moving leaves. I don't want to name names, Mr. Secretary, but we have 17,000 executive files in a county of 80,000 inhabitants in order not to hurt our citizens. So if we divide it by 80,000, we have 20,000 families, we have 17,000 executive files, so 50 percent of them are in effect. Over 50 percent of Edirne's land is in operation. I'm afraid that's what we call the richest province. Our 103,274 parcel of land is in Edirne. So the economy's going well, we're saying it's going well, the little farmer's finishing the policies of this government, and the small tradesman's ending it. In this regard, this bill does not provide adequate satisfaction. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0041par0117	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade." Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. " (1) The store, which is produced in the country and is made of fast consumer goods, is located above and/or in the packaging, in the retailer's name, title or brand, as well as according to the manufacturer's name, title or brand, and easily readable." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0042par0127	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0041par0128	We're reading the motive?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0043par0129	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0041par0130	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to address some problems that can be met in practice. I submit the government's motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, lawmakers, since the first joke of Article 8 of Article 8 has been changed completely by the motion adopted just now, the motion of the Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends has been removed from the process. In the agreed motion framework, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 9. I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is nine. Article 1. We offer and propose that the following statement be added at the end of his joke. "Advanced businesses can't do short-term discounts without beginnings and deadlines." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demiröz Sedef Small Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is nine. Article (1). and (2). We offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. Retail companies can organise discounted or promotional sales campaigns on the basis of the Law on the Protection of the consumer, dated 7/11/2013 and on the basis envisioned by other laws on the Law and related laws. However, the duration of the campaign cannot exceed six months in a change in business opening, era, closure, address or action, and in the case of liquidation under Law Code 6102. (2) Mahalli administrations and public institutional occupational institutions and other corporate companies and other corporate individuals, together or independently, with the participation of retail businesses, at certain times of the year, can organise a shopping festival at the level of district, province, district or country level. The amount of funding for these festivals by public institutional professionals is not up to three per cent of their budget. With the beginning and end date of the shopping festival and the festival's programme and implementation area are already reported to the Ministry." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the underlying 675 rows of the bill be removed from the draft text of the second draft. Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Erol Dora İbrahimi Binici Hasip Kaplan Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0044par0165	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0041par0166	Who will speak, Mr. Buldan?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0045par0167	Mr. Hasip will speak.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0041par0168	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0046par0169	Dear friends, really, consider this law, the heroic grocery store versus supermarkets, but it resists with the public, so it's trying to stand up. Debt, mortar, foreclosure, you brought in another blow with this bill. They could have stood with the people for a long time. Why? The small grocery store, the tradesman, the employees of this economic crisis, the workers, their only basis, their only hope. Can you guys borrow money from malls? Can you give me an example? You went to any mall, you can borrow money if you have a credit card, but you can send an officer, a worker, a unemployed child to the grocery store and send this much sugar, this much bread. And the grocery book is the real life of Turkey, that's real life, my friends. Now, in this real life, how do I keep these small tradesmen, grocery stores, grocery stores, and so forth? Now, notice Ankara, like the capital of the AVM, everywhere, be careful, all around, but for God's sake, if there was one park, people could walk, breathe, breathe, breathe. Is there? No. Well, all over Europe, we're looking here at these mass malls, their miles, their positions out of the city, where they're going to be located, given the population, there's a certain number. Now, this furya began with the opening of the Gallery in Istanbul, remember? Now, those who live in Istanbul know Walesia well. It started out as a small model because it was close to the airport, and now the concrete is rising all over the place. Go to the... look at the entrance points, the concrete buildings are built so concrete that Istanbul, I don't want to name them, will go into advertising, look from the booths to your right, look at the concrete, look to your left, I'll say concrete, you know. Now, in these places, there's usually big markets opening up, and in it is textiles, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Is there anything called Hilmi of the Danube, or Hillilal Street, or... there were streets that were the center of fashion, living places, with her tailor, her apprentice, next door neighbor, her business restaurant, the grocery store that didn't pay her rent, the grocery store that didn't pay her rent, the grocery store that didn't heat her store, what good would that store be for, for God's sake? Credit cards are borrowed by the AVMs, and the grocery stores know the neighbor by conscience, they know them all, they give them to him, and that's what's keeping the groceries alive right now. In order to keep the groceries alive, the shopkeepers need to be sensitive and not take the bread that our people will buy at the grocery store elsewhere, not do the grocery shopping elsewhere, not get in a car and drive away and buy cleaning materials. But how do we support that? This law doesn't answer that, friends, and it's a disappointment, and I want to express it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0047par0173	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is nine. Article (1). and (2). We offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. Retail companies can organise discounted or promotional sales campaigns on the basis of the Law on the Protection of the consumer, dated 7/11/2013 and on the basis envisioned by other laws on the Law and related laws. However, the duration of the campaign cannot exceed six months in a change in business opening, era, closure, address or action, and in the case of liquidation under Law Code 6102. (2) Mahalli administrations and public institutional occupational institutions and other corporate companies and other corporate individuals, together or independently, with the participation of retail businesses, at certain times of the year, can organise a shopping festival at the level of district, province, district or country level. The amount of funding for these festivals by public institutional professionals is not up to three per cent of their budget. With the beginning and end date of the shopping festival and the festival's programme and implementation area are already reported to the Ministry." Ali Halaman (Adana) and her friends Is the commission in? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0048par0184	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0047par0185	Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0049par0186	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a law on 27-point tradesmen, whose rank is 675. I made a promise on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all, the tradesmen, with love. It's called the AVM, which today destroys the grocery store, the grocery store, the grocery store, the store, the COBI, the AVM, and they call it the hypermarket, which seems to be a 27-point law designed to prevent the monopoly of these mad capitals, but the law says that the AVM is the legitimacy of this crazy capital. So I'm going to give you an example from our own country: I'm from Kozan. Over the past decade, these municipalities, particularly the AKP municipalities, are called the SEC, where the municipalities have laid down their homes, and if you're not doing well, come work for minimum wage in this market. Here's BİMdi, Migros. There's also Kiler markets, which politicians are particularly interested in, LC Waikiki, A101 markets, SOC, which are called SPOK, which the municipalities have laid out, laid out the groundwork, created physical conditions, kept the police waiting in front of you, so they've brought a lot of bans. They didn't pay their taxes where they were founded, they pay their taxes elsewhere. It was as if he had invested in an investment, as if he had made a production, in the area where he was located, around the tradesman, the tailor, the grocery store, and so on, and so on, we are employed by minimum wage workers. So that's what our friends say from time to time, it's a crazy capital. For these, imports have gotten easier, so since they've already banned nerdry, they've even brought milk, yogurt, from abroad, and it's on the shelves, and it's on the terraces. Now, while that's happening, there's no tax office in front of the markets, there's no trade room, and there's no city police, but there's two clerks, and if he puts his stove in front of him, there's the tax office, did you pay for the business room? In front of the tailor's shop, there's already no... if there's a tailor who complains about it, a grocery store, the man, the official, the shopkeeper who represents power or power, the ministers say: "Ya, you can't do this well, come, work here for minimum wage." What are you doing there? Now, none of these are the weak tradesmen who are lost at the point of selling what we call our country, our nation, the medium scale, or what we call the KOBI, or what we call the terzi, or what we call the local production, or what we call the local production, or what we call the physical fabrication. Now, this is what they call a supermarket or shopping mall, which is usually done by the initiative of power, by opening zoning spaces, which are mostly done by reminiscent politicians. I wish this law had a law at the point of preventing them -- a law that eliminates a little unfair competition -- the malls or the physical conditions -- in both his taxes and his stock markets and in the trade room -- that if only there was a little neat, light road that would clear the way for him. Therefore, at this point, at this point, we've established laws of law to further legitimize this crazy capital that's been around for ten years, to move further. Sometimes it's because there's a law that's been made by saying, "Oh, well, that's a good law, that's a good law." I'm not saying, no, that's not what I'm saying at all. Amyla, I wish this didn't happen. The 27 articles of this law may have looked like a bitch yesterday, but if he came here today, I'd wish he'd put a point in front of his shop, his tailor, his grocery store, his trading room, and his business store, which is registered to the COBI, so this is what I'd like him to do. I salute you with respect, Council.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0050par0195	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law bill on the Order of retail trade" is nine. Article 1. We offer and propose that the following statement be added at the end of his joke. "Advanced businesses can't do short-term discounts without beginnings and deadlines." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0051par0205	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0050par0206	I'm having it read. The aim was to avoid immediate reduction campaigns to allow the consumer to buy misleading and unneeded products. I submit the government's motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In the accepted motion framework, I submit to your votes the Article 9, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 10 there are two motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade." Article 2 of the Article 2. After the statement "on the front front front" in its joke, we offer and propose that the statement be added within the store. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demirözöz Mahmoud Tanal Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade." Article (2). We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. On the frontline of retail businesses that sell on discounts at all times, these sales are easily seen and readable, or reminiscent of the type of sales. The use of these declarations in shopping malls depends on the fact that all retail businesses involved operate within the first joke; the use of them in other retail businesses, including those in the mall, depends on the quality mentioned in the same joke, at least 80 per cent of the goods offered for sale." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Sumer Oral Erkan Akçay Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0052par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0050par0231	Mr. Oral, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0053par0233	Mr. President, the bill we're discussing is part of a bill that Mr. Prime Minister announced today as a package of transparency, but I was able to hear a bit of Mr. Prime Minister's statement from the car on the way to Parliament today. It was stated here that when talking about various laws, the Public Contraction Law, prepared in a way that ensures competition and transparency, was issued by Justice and Development Party governments. Of course, I didn't take this as a surprise because the Public Contraction Act -- Law 4734 -- was adopted by the Parliament on January 4, 2002, and was published in the Official Gazette on January 22, 2002. E, the Justice and Development Party is not in the government at that time, but in a prime minister's speech, I first marveled at how this took place. Yes, the Justice and Development Party has made a great contribution in the Law of Contraction, but it has become a law that is riddled with the dismantling of the principles of transparency and competition, the dissolution of the law in various ways, but it has not been passed in the time of the Justice and Development Party. I mean, it's hard not to wonder how a prime minister's speech is prepared. Also, the Public Financial Management and Control Law actually reached the end of 2003, but this bill was all designed by the 57th government, it was drafted into a bill, and it was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Prime Minister. There was almost no difference between that text and the legal text, but the 21st article, which is one of the basic articles of the Public Financial Management and Control Law, which is that the 21st article, which predicts that there will not be a transfer of funds to the reserves of staff in the budget, has been put on hold by a clause in budget law since 2007, and has lost much of the principle of public finance management and control. Now, of course, the public tender law, the Justice and Development Party governments came out on time. When I said it, I immediately remembered that this year Turkey is the term president of G20. While the presidential vision document was being released, Mr. President had stated that Turkey had entered the government of the Justice and Development Party at the time of its arrival, but it was clear that there was no party called Justice and Development Party at the time of Turkey's arrival in G20. Fortunately, it's not being handled anymore, but it's extremely important for the government to be a little more careful about it. Mr. President, I wanted to make this clear. And I wish the law to be good for the Turkish tradesman and artist, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0239	Thank you, Mr. Oral. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0055par0241	We're more than that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0242	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine 10. Article 2 of the Article 2. After the statement on the front front front of the joke, we provide and propose the addition of the expression in the store. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0056par0246	Mr. President, we were more in the vote just now, those in favor.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0247	I didn't hear him. Friends, clerks... Well, since we're counting on the finger lifts, I mean, I'm acting on the basis of two clerks.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0057par0250	They didn't just lift it there.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0251	No, I mean, according to the finger...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0057par0252	No, there's...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0253	Okay, on my own, Reverend, I have no objection, but I should have been warned. So we're counting on the finger, Reverends. Now I'm confused. I'm Yusef Halaçoglu. Commission, do you agree? We're giving you credit, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0058par0258	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0259	I'm reading the reason: Reason: It is intended to protect the rights of both consumers and stores that sell season-ends, exports, or defects. I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who agree... now we count, raise your fingers. Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0059par0262	Sustained.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0263	Sustained. Sehven was not accepted. I said so. Yes, it's agreed. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 11 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "five out of five thousand" in Article 11 of the current 675 rows of the bill be replaced with "at least ten percent." Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan Fair Zozani Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Sequence Numbers "The Law Bill on the Order of Business in the Window" (11) is the 11th edition of the article. Article 1 found below. We propose that the joke be added, that the other jokes be identified accordingly. In shopping malls, department stores, and chain stores, there are half as many parking spaces as total sales. When the law is enforced, a business without enough parking spaces will be given time to meet the parking obligations within a year. Retail company's employment and employment license which cannot be returned is revoked." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is 11. Article (1). To change the joke in the following way, below (4). We add the joke and propose that the joke numbers be identified accordingly. In shopping malls, the area that corresponds to at least five-thousandths of the market area is mandatory for the organisation of social and cultural activities. The ministry is authorized to increase this rate to one level. (4) They must organise an area that they have provided via rental malls/or their total sales area, which corresponds to at least half of the city's housing centers and at least 80% of the city's municipality outside, as a closed or open parking space and offer it to the common use of their clients free of charge." Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yilmaz Seyfetttin Yilmaz Sumer Oral Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0060par0294	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0054par0295	In the meantime, let's get one thing straight. The government participates in some motions, so the party's MPs, who have the relevant motion, are not raising their fingers. We're counting on it. And sometimes we're all together, and we're counting it. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0061par0298	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion in Article 11 of the underlying law of 675 rows. I salute your high council. With this package, our over 2 million tradesmen have come to the conclusion of their problems, but unfortunately the mountain has given birth to mice, and the big fish has swallowed the small fish again. Here are the proposals made by lawmakers, the proposals to express the problems, problems of our tradesman, and offer solutions, but when we look at the law, none of them are on the agenda. The winner here was the big capital groups again, and the oppressed were our small tradesmen. Now, today, the Prime Minister announced a package under the name of the Competitive and Transparency Package. And in this bill, where is the equal competition? Is it possible for the AVMs and the large malls and the famous Girl Grocery Grocery to compete on equal terms for thirty and forty years in Adana? No way. Now, how's your sense of competition? Honestly, how's your transparency? Let the innocent people of Anatolia, the poor poor, strange guru's children, fight for KPSS on equal terms, sweat, work hard, make their parents study them, make them work hard, make them have a job, but let the MPs' children be assigned to special staff, and let the ministers' children be assigned to special staff. Now from here to the Prime Minister, where is this competition? Is this your idea of competition? Transparency, what transparency are you talking about? You want transparency from all parts of society, tradesmen, you want transparency from institutions, you want transparency from the press, but when it comes to you, there's no transparency. We're asking from here that you built an illegal palace with 1,150 rooms. Who spent how much money on this place? How much is the contract here? How much did the metreb pay from granite to something like that? How much for the glasses? How many personnel are employed here? There is no transparency when we say: Not when transparency comes to you, but when it comes to the innocent people of Anatolia, you talk about transparency. In competition, you run the people of Asia Minor into competition, but you lead your own followers into competition. I mean, that kind of understanding isn't right. Now, we're visiting the tradesmen, and the lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party must travel when they're gone. The shopkeeper is crying out for blood. There's a tradesman who can't pay off his debts to banks, his debt to the People's Bank, and he can't do a day-to-day sale. You brought in a law, and you talked for months. What do you bring with you? Is there one substance that thinks of the tradesman? Who did you protect? You've protected the mall. So you're going to admit that those quiet piles, that strange group of people, that Anatolian man, who's been struggling for life, who's been working as a tradesman for years, who's been after his legitimate earnings, are not on your agenda. You've got a father on your agenda, you've got money people on your agenda, you've got capital groups on your agenda. With the bill you have brought, you have opened the way for the malls again. Where in the world are the malls being built, like they're finished in the middle of nowhere? You're killing something else, turning people into people, destroying people's values. There was a culture with our grocery store, our tailor, our grocery store, there was solidarity, people cared about each other's troubles. Today you're killing these shopkeepers, the grocery store, the tailor, the entire small tradesman. In Adana, there were 3,000, 4,000 inhabitants of Karaisa (Karaisa) a large shopping centre, or a chain of a market opened, Saimbeyliyya, Hurlbeyli (ya), the 3-4 thousand-nation districts of Adana. Now, I'm asking you, what kind of competition are our merchants going to have with these big shopping malls, money dads, who's been grocery stores there for years, who's been a grocery store, who's been a tailor, who's earned money? And then you broadcast it from all the TVs, Mr. Prime Minister, today, under the name of competition equality and transparency, announces a package. I mean, you're just saying you're thinking about people, but you don't have one app that thinks about people. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0062par0306	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is 11. Article 1 found below. We propose that the joke be added, that the other jokes be identified accordingly. In shopping malls, department stores, and chain stores, there are half as many parking spaces as total sales. When the law is enforced, a business without enough parking spaces will be given time to meet the parking obligations within a year. The employee's license to open and work for a retail company is revoked. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0063par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0062par0316	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0064par0317	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are now listening to from here, many of our fellow correctional officers and fellow prison staff members in the prisons. You know, last week, we had arrangements for the safety of the prisons on our agenda. Their main concern here was the development of their rights, raising their compensations and recognition of operational service increases, but unfortunately, in the past week, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice did not agree on their rights. It was said, "This has been postponed." Now they're asking, is this meeting going to continue, or is this law going to be the same as any other law? First of all, they want the recognition of their rights and their actual service increase. From here, Mr. Secretary, representing the government, it is my duty to deliver these views and these calls for assistance to you, my duty, to ask that you be interviewed as soon as possible. However, when it comes to the Bill of Law on the Order of Retail Trade, number 675. She just gave birth to a mountain rat, like my friend said. Unfortunately, we are currently negotiating with this law that has not been fulfilled the demands of our tradesman, which millions of tradesmen have been waiting for. And they're looking at all of us right now, wondering if there's anything positive about us. They want their rights in Article 173 of the Constitution. What does the Constitution say? The state takes protective and supportive measures against major shopping malls, which means they really want protection against chain stores, but unfortunately they see that there is no such protection in this law. Now, yesterday, Mr. Minister said: "There is no reduction in our small trades, but there is a greater increase in our trades." But the figures of the TESK, the Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy don't say that at all, Mr. Secretary. In 2000, there were 4 million tradesmen, and today there are 1.5 million tradesmen. Where did these merchants go? They're gone. Where did they disappear? Why did they disappear? Actually, we all know that. You don't need numbers to know that, dear friends. We all see it in our neighborhood, where we are, after the chain markets open, the grocery stores, the grocery stores close one by one. Well, there should be a solution to their problems, but unfortunately, there is no solution to their problems. What do the merchants want, the tradesmen? What they wanted was very simple, really. ▪ As in all European countries, let shopping malls and chain markets be closed one day a week, and let us stand up a bit. Let the working hours be limited and let these shopping malls move out of the city. These were in the law proposals the AKP lawmakers have passed earlier, in which different parties and our party have proposed the law, but unfortunately, all of this has been eliminated because of the work of major AVM lobbying as they came to the bill. We all witnessed it together. Now, there's, like, a joke on the bill. Sir, 5 per cent of the malls will leave room for the shopkeepers. What kind of money will the shopkeeper keep from there? That's what I'm asking you. There's going to be a price reduction in certain proportions for the execution of traditional and disappearing professions. With what money, friends, what money? You think he's gonna be able to hold a place for the shopkeeper to stand up, where he can be held by those big numbers? You don't think, you just think you're giving them a candy apple, and none of them are gonna fall for it, we see that. The sale of local products will be placed in the malls. Of course, it's a good thing it's put there, but the development of local tradesmen is what we want. I am the child of a grocery store with a footman, and Ali Akagun. My father's name was Ali Akagün, and he was running a grocery store in Butler. We are people who know the kind of problems that grocery stores have, but unfortunately today, there are no solutions to the problems that grocery stores have experienced at the footman. The grocery stores say we are at 22 o'clock. We're closing at 00, so we're closing our liquor sales, and the malls are 22. It's closing at 00. Why, according to us malls, do we have to obligatoryly eliminate our sales? Also, the malls are called drinks, and if there is a price union, why is it kept low, and why do grocery stores like us have to have a price union? In addition, the arrangement in this article, which prevents the small tradesman from paying his market license, was positive, because our merchants in the House of Servants had a serious problem in this regard. However, when you remove the Law on Week Holidays completely, the right to take a day off in large malls can also be eliminated once a week, Mr. Secretary, and I want to draw your attention to this matter. There may be a substance in this that can be removed, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you will face serious problems if you remove the Law on Holidays from the whole. And there's a problem with our butlers, Mr. Minister, not in this bill: there are arrangements for festivals and shopping sites, but there are no solutions to problems with the markets and the markets. Since there's a lot of bake sale going on every day, because there are market places, the shopkeeper complains more than he can't sell. If you think about it, they will be very pleased if a proper arrangement can be made. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0065par0330	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "five out of five thousand" in Article 11 of the current 675 rows of the bill be replaced with "at least ten percent." Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0066par0339	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0065par0340	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0067par0342	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 11 of the Bill of Law on the Order of Retail Trade. I salute the General Assembly. This bill consists of the government's superficial arrangements to create the impression that it was trying to protect the small tradesman before the election. The question we think is, which policies pooren the small tradesman? What government has run these policies? All the public, like us, knows the answer to that question. The main source of the problems the small tradesman faces is the government-supporting approach of large capital, which is the result of the neoliberal policy and attitudes of the EC PARTY government itself. Dear lawmakers, regulations on the tradesman's registration process, regulations on the work of malls during holidays, regulations that require the worshipary obligations in the malls are secondary issues and are far from resolving the tradesman's real problems. The neoliberal, run by the EC PARTI government in Turkey, combined with unscheduled, non-planned, ranta-oriented construction permits for municipalities, has transformed major cities, especially Istanbul, into AVM dumpsters. Historical buildings that are in the cities, waiting to be restored, have been seen as available investment sites for the malls. Investment in malls over the past decade has been calculated as $40 billion. Precious lawmakers are regarded as a so-called development model for construction and maximum profit, without regard for the development of economic, social and cultural tissues of cities, the immigration of cities, as a simple issue of licensing and development of shopping malls, regardless of the fact that they are moving to cities. AVMs, which have been transformed into attraction centers created in society, have been merged with the fact that banks are recklessly distributing credit cards to lend people money, and are planned to create an artificial sense of exchange in people. As presented as an example of development of the abundance of malls, society is also being misled and misled, as it is presented as a sign of economic progress in the abundance of malls. Dear lawmakers, the cities are also one of the biggest indicators of the fact that local democracy is not open to public legal channels to say "dur" while government, municipality and capital are being raided behind closed doors, without the opinion of the locals. In these commercial places, where the goal is to profit from each square metre, there is a public desire for artificial consumption. We are also watching with example that the malls built by putting consumer mass on target are closing down because of the internal contradictions of capitalism, that 23 malls have been shut down in the last seven years, and that some want to be converted into different institutions. Dear lawmakers have made cities impossible with malls, multi-level crooked constructions, as well as large capital that has been in constant alliances since the EC PARTY government has been in power. It has not been relented from creating illusions that try to present malls as a service to society. The same mentality, in rural areas, plundered water resources that were the source of life, spread recklessly about hydropower plants; it did not hesitate to offer the forests to capital that was driven by the greed for profit. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been made up of public-funded understandings of democraticism and transparency, not urban planning, culture, local memory; ground-breaking, mechanizing, past culture; local dynamics, second-guessing cultures, linking local sociology to power. In this context, alternative urban life policies are needed. The attraction centers of cities in many areas are vital to the development of social areas in the neighborhood, including participation in villages, communist values, cooperatives, local parliaments, people's participation in decisions. Capitalist modernism must be determined, democratic modernism must be based on equality, freedom, conformity to cultural tissue. Democratic city councils, neighborhood parliaments, locally qualified production partnerships should be established, and democratic local governments should also lead the way for supporting these insights. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0068par0355	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In Article 12 there are two motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade. We offer and propose that the expression "one percent" of the article, "to one tenth of it," "to one tenth of it," "to one tenth of it," "to one percent of it," and "to the five percent" of its last sentence in the joke, adding "not more than half the price of the first five years" and adding to the next half of the price. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demiröz Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade. Article (1), (2) and (3). We offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. In shopping malls, there are at least 10 per cent of the total sales area to be paid rent at least 50 per cent of the rail price for business and artists. These places can also be rented to other demand holders if there are not enough demands from tradesmen and artists, or if they cannot be filled within 30 days of the announcement date. (2) In shopping malls, there are at least one percent of the total sales area to be rented to those who have lost traditional, cultural or artistic professions. The rent price for these places can't be more than a fifth of the cost. The professions are adopted and declared by the Ministry, with the opinion of the relevant upper professional institution. (3) The shelf area, which corresponds to at least two per cent of the sales areas in the major stores and chain stores, where the sale of fast consumer goods is sold, is divided into the sale of local products, which have been registered geographically or geographically markedly, with the production of the store at least two per cent of the retail and private businesses. Resorts that cannot be filled with local products can be used for the sale of other products." Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut Reşat Right Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0069par0379	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0068par0380	Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0070par0382	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Our country's most important problems come with unemployment. Unemployment, which exceeds 10 per cent of the official figures, has reached 20 per cent of the informal figures. One out of every four young people is unemployed. New jobs must be opened to reduce this unemployment. Nearly half of the 15 million members of Social Security are small tradesmen, artists, and employees. The small shop needs to be opened up with measures such as opening up its way, preparing new possibilities, giving it long-term loans, and five years of tax evasion of the new owners. In Europe, the reason that the crisis in the world has been expressed is that the tradesman has faced the tremors of this crisis. The tradesman gave an eight to ten thousand dollars to the citizens, to the people who had no money, to the people who had a credit card, to the people who had low income, to the people who had low income, to the citizens, to the people who had no credit, to the people who had opened their books, to the people who had no credit, to the people who had no credit cards. When he had no money, he took his bread and milk and said no. Such an important function of Turkish culture, the most important element of the Abyssinic culture, this small trade, the grocery store, which is the indispensable of our social structure, we see that the AVM (AVM) is melting every day, because the Justice and Development Party is an AVM party, and the Justice and Development Party is a rich party. It is also seen in this law that we have been waiting for for for many years when the small tradesman did not think of the small-income. The former Prime Minister says at an opening, he says to the grocery stores: "Come together, and you can open new malls." Keep up with the new order of life. So it says: "Shut up your shops and join the Ponzi scheme." Such a view is not possible to address the problems of this precious group of professions, which are the most important elements of our social structure. When economic decisions are made in the European Union, he has an understanding of the younger one first. But unfortunately, the power is looking out for the big man, defending the big man's rights, clearing the way for the big man, telling the little man to take care of himself. The long-awaited law has failed expectations. Even though the cities have entered and failed to open the large centre, this monster, who has 65 per cent of the retail sector, is trying to take away 42 per cent of the small tradesman's share, including the small market chains. These people can't get together and build a mall, and these people can't build an organization like this because they can't. They don't take money from the Traders' Bail Co-ops, which you're proud to lend a lot of credit to, which you've made a bank, they don't invest in, they pay off their debts, they try to put new products on their shelves. I mean, they can't even have a mall dream. This is seen by the tradesman, and he will ask these people to account for the Justice and Development Party's point of view in the June 7th elections. The National Movement Party is next to our little shopkeeper, who is ready with his staff and projects to solve his problems. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0071par0391	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th edition of the current 675 Orders Bill of Law on the Order of Performance Trade. We offer and propose that the expression "one percent" of the article, "to one tenth of it," "to one tenth of it," "to one tenth of it," "to one percent of it," and "to the five percent" of its last sentence in the joke, adding "not more than half the price of the first five years" and adding to the next half of the price. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0072par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0071par0401	Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0073par0403	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 12th Amendment of Bill 675. I salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers are said to be the reason for this bill by the government, including the loss of markets and the problems of holding on to markets for malls and chain stores for tradesmen and small-scale business enterprises. That's quite right, but it's a late estimate, to the extent that he's right. For years, tradespeople have breached the government's door on the damage done by the malls and chain stores. The opposition has repeatedly made an offer on this issue. Esnaf weeps for blood, and the AVMs cause thousands of tradesmen to close their doors. It was said that the ears were deaf for some reason. Now, has the number of malls reached 350, with the number of stores' chains dating to 18,000? Why wait until the tradesman can no longer carry this burden, until thousands of them have to lock the door of the grocery store, the grocery store, the workplace? These questions need to be answered immediately by the government because a overwhelming majority of the existing hypermarkets, the AVMs, began to operate during the Justice and Development Party's rule. When the owner of the horse has passed, after years of hardship, the tradesman will protect you. The drafting of the law will not be a very healthy approach. It's late, though, but I'd also like to say that we find the bill quite positive. Of course, the mall and hypermarkets aren't the only problems of our esteemed lawmakers, tradesmen and artists. Ask about bank loans, almost every one of our tradesmen owes money to banks. Ask about tax debts, our tradesmen's tax debt has found 70 billion. The problem with BUG-KUR premiums is that most of our tradesmen can't pay BUG-KUR bonuses and therefore can't benefit from health care services. Despite the fact that our constitution has a provision for the protection of our tradesmen and artists, they are still the biggest problem in the world if they are not protected and supported. Among all these problems, what's admirable is that our tradesmen and artists can still bring home bread, still resist, still create jobs, and still turn the wheels of our economy. This is a great success, despite the policies of the Justice and Development Party. Like our tradesmen, the middle pillars of our society are the most sensitive to economic crises and turmoil. If a good and healthy economy policy is not implemented, the worst harm will be done by these people and their families. One of the most important conditions of stability is a transparent, manageable and uncorrupted structure. Unfortunately for our country, it's never possible to say that this condition has been met, especially these days. If the leaders of a country are remembered with corruption and loot, there is no stability in that country, nor a healthy economic structure. In one country, if the government's sustaining institutions are in doubt, and the trust in the judiciary is getting more and more shaken every day, if the reins of a runt and a wasteful fuel continue, then the economy of that country is on the back of the knife. And no manager has the right to put his country in this state, to let it go, to act as if nothing had happened. If we really want to protect the tradesman, if we really don't want to crush the worker, the poor, first of all, if we want to leave a healthy society in the future, we need to be completely free of corruption, I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0074par0411	Thank you, Mr. Little. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 13 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Sequential "Law Bill on Editing Performance Trade" is 13. The title of the article is to be changed to "workdays and hours." It is determined by authority by the governor's statement that "the view of authority can be determined by the governor" in his joke. We propose and propose that the joke be replaced with "Gallery malls, large shops and chain stores are closed one day a week, the first two days on religious holidays and the last day of the year." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmoud Tanal Haluk Eyidoğan İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Sequential "Law Bill on Editing Performance Trade" is 13. Article (1). And (2) we offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. (1) The working hours of some or all retail businesses are determined by the executive administration on the joint proposal of occupational organisations, based on specific conditions and so on. In determining the working hours of business and artistic enterprises, the opinion of the tradesman's and artist's room is taken by the professional organisation. (2) Shopping malls, department stores, and chain stores are kept closed for the first two days on official holidays, once a week, completely and during religious holidays. Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Reşat Right Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the current law bill 675 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan İbrahim Binci Erol Dora Adil Zozani Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0075par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0074par0441	Motive. "The working hours of some or all of the transactions can be determined by the governor." It's a vague statement, but it doesn't contain any system. In fact, there's nothing about this understanding that protects the right to a worker. The working hours must be set through labour parliaments, which will be formed by trade unions, trade rooms and civil society organisations and workers at workplaces. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Sequential "Law Bill on Editing Performance Trade" is 13. Article (1). And (2) we offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. (1) The working hours of some or all retail businesses are determined by the executive administration on the joint proposal of occupational organisations, based on specific conditions and so on. In determining the working hours of business and artistic enterprises, the opinion of the tradesman's and artist's room is taken by the professional organisation. (2) Shopping malls, department stores, and chain stores are kept closed for the first two days on official holidays, once a week, completely and during religious holidays. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0076par0454	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0074par0455	Mr. Emin Çınar, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0077par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have made as the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 13 of the Law Bill on the Order of Retail Trade, 675 rows under discussion. I salute your high council. Our tradesmen are one of the most important economic elements of the Turkish community. Ninety-nine percent of the businesses operating in our country are from tradesmen and artists. 77 per cent of employment and 36 per cent of the added value in the economy are provided by tradesmen. The challenge of economic conditions, the continuing burden of debt, the increase of major shopping malls, the obligation to shut down our trades. In 2004, we had more than 2,850,000 tradesmen across Turkey, and the number was reduced to 1 million 575 thousand by 2014. Despite the AKP's law on retail trade arrangement today, this law does not provide solutions to the problems of small trade and artists, nor does it even contain regulations to destroy them. The hostility of the AKP's tradesman was made clear by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself years ago. Mr. Erdogan, at the opening ceremony of a shopping mall, the grocery store is over. He has abandoned our little tradesman and artist to his fate. He and his family's provider have been sacrificed to the great shopping barons, face to face with destruction. With this law, there is no cure for the problems of the tradesman, and the loser is still our tradesman and artist. Dear lawmakers have deeply influenced the structure of society, the small tradesman, the stability of our economy, the weakening of the SMEs, the weakening of the community. Traders and artists, the heirs of secular culture, also provide jobs and perform very important social duties, as well as bringing home bread with their sweats. Our small tradesman and artist, who used to be among the rich in the neighborhood, became poor, small-income today. The main factors are that investments in the AVM sector in Turkey reach uncontrollably large. These malls have exposed our tradesman to unfair competition. Foreign investors are making the trade that they can't do in their own country very easily in our country, making high profits in the short term, bringing them into their own economy, and frustrating our retail market. Our shop owner is closing his doors, while our business owner is the boss of his own business, and he has to be a waiter or clerk of international companies. Because of the lack of industrial investments in Kastamon, my constituency, our citizens are tradesmen and livelihoods in this way. In recent years, however, the heavy economic conditions, the increase of chain markets and malls, have left our tradesman unable to pay taxes. In Kastamon, our tradesman has to close his shops because he is dying, he is becoming poor, he cannot pay his debts. According to statistics of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey's opened/closed business numbers, the number of businesses closing in the first ten months of the year in Kastamonou, my constituency, has increased by two times as much as the first ten months of the year; the number of businesses opened is very little. With this law that we're negotiating, the lack of the opening and closing hours of the AVMs has disappointed the small tradesman, artist, and employee of the AVM. At this rate, there will be no tradesmen left in our country, the retail sector will quickly disappear. Our tradesman, unable to compete with large malls and chain markets, is becoming poorer and poorer every day because of their social and economic conditions. We must not abandon our merchants to their fate, but to make arrangements for their survival. We can resolve these problems not by the mall bosses, but by listening to our major capital groups, and by taking the views of the rooms that represent them, by making adjustments in their direction. I wish this law to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0078par0465	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Sequential "Law Bill on Editing Performance Trade" is 13. The title of the article is to be changed to "workdays and hours." It is determined by authority by the governor's statement that "the view of authority can be determined by the governor" in his joke. We propose and propose that the joke be replaced with "Gallery malls, large shops and chain stores are closed one day a week, the first two days on religious holidays and the last day of the year." Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0079par0474	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0078par0475	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0080par0477	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion on the 13th Amendment. Before we begin, we would like to ask the Prime Minister to take part in the march there, especially after this painful incident in Paris, where we would like to have his statement on freedom of the press carried out in Turkey. The attacks on Cumhuriyet daily and Fox TV, the police specifically pressured Cumhuriyet daily to search there without a prosecutor's order, and the stoning of Fox TV's vehicle... Precaution needs to be taken, especially in social media and in some broadcast organs, to prevent the target immediately. We'd like to take precautions ahead of that. Besides, it's Diyarbakir 2. We also consider the obstruction of access to certain websites of the Criminal Court of Peace a coup against freedom of the press. Dear lawmakers, there are about 8,000 subcontractors working on the highways. These workers, you know, despite the court's ruling, are still not entitled to their rights by this government, and your wife, who's... You brag about making all that way, but we see what's going on in the snow. This is the closure of the Izmir road, the road to Manisa, the events of Erzincan and the east today, the result of this subcontractorization. I remember my late father was a highwayman, retired from the highway. When you think about those roads and those vehicles, technologically, we didn't see the roads being blocked at the time, but now, unfortunately, the roads are closed, and that's the main reason for subcontractorship. Plus, you've privatized TEDAS, and because of TEDASY, there's no electricity in many villages right now, and the poles have been ripped out. AFTER TEDAS -- especially when it's privatized -- our friends want to work hard, they want to deliver electricity, but instead of taking 20, you're going to hire 1 person. Unfortunately, the electricity is out, people are freezing. There's one other thing, I'll tell you, I've brought up the SRC documents here before: The Ministry gave them to me, and the Police say they're fake. The money of the world has been taken. I gave it to the Minister. Minister, I'll tell you about that. The SRC document was given to people, given by the Ministry of Transport, given by a cold seal, but right now, the last 68,000 people said: "Yours was wronged, forged." The Ministry didn't accept it, but the Ministry gave it to them. There's got to be a study on that, too, these people are victims. Of course, if we want to protect the tradesman, the government officer, the employee, he has to protect the pensioner first. A fellow citizen sent me his payroll in Erzincan, and we're SSK retired Mehmet Artuvan. For 9,004 days, he paid a premium to BUG-KUR, or was paid 699 TL to the USSR. The hunger limit is $1.232, and the poverty limit is $4.014, so come and live. Yesterday, Mr. President-in-Chief, 6 lira 99 cents on the pensions, $9.32p on the widow's pensions, $13.98 on the monthly basis of $600, $18 on the monthly area of $800, $18 64 on the monthly space, $23.30 on the monthly space of $1,000, $24 on the monthly area. You're telling the officer that you're offering a 6 percent minimum wage -- not 12 percent -- but 12 percent increase. With these raises, there's no way to protect the tradesman. Plus, especially these chain markets growing like an avalanche. In a place like Erzincan, we have 95,000 people in the center. Every street you go to, there's a grocery store, there's these little chains. We already know that they never had anything to do with Erzincan, other than employing three or five people -- think of all of Turkey. And when they open, we know exactly who opened them, how they spread. We see streets where you go in and you can't find anything, but one minute they bring it in, they make it cheap on certain days. He brought people there, where the tradesmen, especially the small tradesmen, the grocery stores, he ruined our grocery uncles. Let me ask you a question here. In particular, Mr. Prime Minister, the joker and the publisher, has just announced it again today, giving good news. The packages explain it all the time. The 62nd government explains a lot of tradesmen's packages about freedoms, as if there were no continuation of the three previous governments, even the four governments. In fact, he denies you to prove himself, but they don't benefit from any of the packages that have been opened, and no one does. I'll lend it to Esnafa without interest. He says. So far, especially those who work in livestock, those who work in agriculture, they've been given interest-free loans, but we know how far they've come when they're not given interest-free, when they can't pay. If we want to protect the tradesman -- most of our friends already told us -- we need to get the citizen out of this debt and make them a little richer so we can save the tradesman. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0081par0487	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second section includes 14 to 27, including the temporary 1. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, MP Haydar Akar wants to speak on the second chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0082par0496	Mr. President, lawmakers, we're negotiating the bill on the regulation of retail trade, and I'm going to announce my views on the general part of the second chapter. Yes, Mr. Secretary came to the stand and spoke. We're talking about a law that's been going on for about 18 years, and a few ministers, and every minister has promised to bring it to this House, and the shopkeepers and the AVM owners and the big investors and the hypermarket owners have been waiting for. The minister said: "In fact, we took off the law that had been waiting 18 years or 20 years, working 18 hours, even waiting for the white smoke to smoke. Is it an ideal law if it's wanted? No, it's not an ideal law. Well, at the same time, the TESK, the Confederacy of the Traders and Artists of Turkey, says we'll take a step further, and he's not happy with the law. And when we looked at the law, everybody was waiting for this white smoke, so the shop was waiting, the citizen was waiting, the owner of the hypermarket, the owner of the mall, everyone was waiting. White smoke appeared, but everyone was shocked when they saw the white smoke. It's really empty, but it's protected by the consumer law that regulates the current situation today, which protects consumers, although it's not a law that concerns consumers very much or concerns local tradesmen and artists. Now, I told you, 18 years, 20 years on the shelf, that's the law. In 2002, Minister of Industry and Trade Mr. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu tried to bring this law, but he failed to follow it, trying to bring Ali Coshkun right after him in the 59th government. I couldn't bring it to the people who had failed and apologized. Then two ministers in the 60th government... I won't say one because one of them is a Minister of the Supreme Court today... and I don't want to mention his name, but the other one is Minister of my city, Mr. Nihat Ergün, we put him on the bench, he's on his way. He said he's on his way. That tape never made it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we couldn't see that law. In the 61st period of the government, after Mr. Hayati Printer's Law, we will pass this law. Despite what he said, the law did not come. This law has been passed to Mr. Canikli. You've actually been able to bring in the law that hasn't been passed for 20 years, but you've brought it in empty because none of the laws proposed by AKP lawmakers and other opposition party lawmakers or the laws proposed by lawmakers for this bill are included in this law. In fact, in your votes, AKP lawmakers in the Commission, which I'm about to say later -- they even voted against the clauses that were in their legislation, or they didn't try to get in on it. That's what we're dealing with. Well, now that this law has come, you have to look at it from this dimension. Yeah, what was the point of our proposals? And I gave it to him because it's a law proposition. For one thing, we shouldn't allow unfair competition. What does it mean not to allow unfair competition? For example, what did our grocery stores do when they had to buy product manufacturers for short periods and advance prices? Because he made huge purchases for four or six months, he was getting a lower price for making wholesale purchases, but they were raising profit margins in large quantities by putting a close price on the grocery store's sale. There's nothing in this law to prevent that. Again, hypermarkets are being defended, which I don't understand why they're being defended. Even in developed countries, we don't have as many supermarkets or malls as we do. It hasn't reached 400, which is about 400, but the Minister explained here that in 2015 we will be able to get 400 numbers. We're number one in the world again at the malls and hypermarkets. If hypermarkets were very acceptable, if there were organizations that contributed to the development of the country's economy, there would be more malls in all the cities of the developed countries than we do, but in those cities, in those countries, we can't see these malls. Again, these hypermarkets are said to contribute a great deal to taxes because of the use of cash registers or credit cards, but when you look at the list of taxpayers, we see that none of these international hypermarkets are in order, and many of them are reporting damage, and they don't pay five cents. Of course, we all know how international companies transfer money to their own country. I'd like to say once again that these companies are not on the list of taxpayers who are approaching 80 billion, 100 billion euros. So, what do these malls do? It contributes to the visual integrity of the city. It is called. Yes, it contributes to the visual integrity and visuality of the city. See if you can take the Eskişehir road over there. Let us see how the malls there contribute to the visual picture of the city. Now, these malls are often built in urban centers with international power, and they change their plans for development, using more green areas, and even using the green areas of the city for their own social activities without paying. Of course, these malls also disrupt the commercial, social, and traffic operations of the city. We can give a lot of examples of these. Yeah, well, when you say mall, you mean my town. In the early 1990s, a mayor of our political party made great efforts to bring the mall to the city. It was in the early 1990s. In fact, the Outlet Center, which we call the first outlet center of Turkey, is still available, established in the Bigeli. He was the second city to which the AVMs were opened after Istanbul, before Ankara. In fact, people from Sakarya, Düzça, Yalova, and Bursa had arranged for the bus routes to the Outlet Center, the AVM. Those who have heard my speech will remember those days. But as we saw the second, and the third, and the fourth, and the fifth, we realized how much damage we had caused to the city, and how much trouble we had caused to the city's future. The tradespeople we went to were rightfully telling us that, yes, you brought this mall into the city first. It was true, it was needed that day, but it was 2, 3, 4, 5, and the fact that it was in the city centers was no longer needed, that the local tradespeople, the small tradesman, came to the point of finishing what we call the store. Mr. Secretary was saying again that the grocery stores have increased over the years. That's right, it's going up, the population of Turkey is going up all the time. When you give him a percentage of the population, he'll see that the number doesn't go up. With the AVM culture, we learned something else, we learned to be a consumer society. In 2002, the end of the 1990s and the early 2000s, to become a consumer society and to base the economy on it, which is the main goal of the AKP government, they have done a growing economy account, not by producing it, but by building it, it's exactly what they want, the AVMs and the AVMs have grown like avalanches, but people can no longer find a place to borrow money. Everyone has credit card debt because these malls, these supermarkets, they're so markets that they make you want to spend it, even if you don't want to. Of course, we say this, what should be done with the malls? The malls must be rushed out of the city. There is something in this law that does not exist again: the mall must be closed on Saturday or Sunday, at least once a week. It must be shut down for two reasons: the city must be shut down for its tradesman to breathe. It should also be closed for employees at the mall. The person who works at that mall has to have the opportunity to take a vacation with his children on a Sunday for 20 years, for ten years, no matter what you say. Again, there is not a single clause in the organization of people who work in these markets, and there is not a single clause in this proposal for the union. They have human lives, they have to come and go at certain hours, which are left to the governor's office, and they work at least 12 hours longer. I believe that this slavery should be called a bell. There's nothing in this law about that again. Again, as always, the government says, "I will solve a bleeding wound." He says he has passed a bill that serves the investors, and he boasts that he has passed it twenty years later. As I said, you say that there can be cooperatives in this that don't disrupt urban culture, that will revive the city's tradesman, that will cure the city's business, but you don't tell the cooperatives to give credit. And before that law, those people could've come together and done it in the logic that you're looking at, but because their capital wasn't strong, they didn't get a chance to do it. Yes, I say again that this law must be reviewed, and that in the future, we will make an effort to establish a law that protects the consumer in the power of the Republican People's Party, in the real sense. I give you all my love.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0083par0514	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0084par0518	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the second chapter on the Order of the Retail Trade, 675. I salute you all. In fact, the bill that we discussed is very important for the introduction of AKP's policies, where the image is clearly expressed. Because during the 12-year period of power, the AKP government actually made the entire country a mall dump. The AVM understanding, from the mosques, which are sacred places, below the basement, to the parks where people can only breathe, I'm afraid, was tried recklessly during this government period. We think that these malls, which became a symbol of Turkish capitalism during the AKP period, are actually the biggest problems in the cities. The painting, which emerged in all Turkey today, began to be considered to be related to these AVM policies, almost from the lack of aesthetics in cities to the enemy of green space. Because the AVM consecration of the AKP government actually includes the alienation and elimination of a social culture, a social touch. The protection of social tissue, the protection of culture, faith, social life, was actually one of the main tasks of the ruling adult against the violent attacks of capitalism. However, the practice of the AKP government -- as I said -- has been shaped so far by policies that alienate both individual and social tissue, which completely eliminate social culture. The AKP has imprisoned socialisation within the AVM borders. During this period, socialization, which is part of the culture of this society, has been moved from houses, parks, couches, coffeehouses, sacred places, mosques, mosques, and mosques to malls. But the pathological aspect of socialization here is that all relationships, all understandings, are based on money. And we know very well that there will be no healthy consequences from socializations based on money. See, actually, during the AKP administration, there were huge social objections, a number of important social sensitivities, social responses, and the resistance to travel is the most concrete example of that. During the Resistance against a government that wants to build an AVM in a single green area that can live in the city without money, most of the community, especially during the travel resistance, has given very important messages. The fact that our living spaces are not being interfered with, that the ecological tharan of the AVM culture is being called a pause, is the essence of this resistance, and there are also very important messages about the socialization that you're trying to alienate, which you're trying to eliminate. But unfortunately, instead of receiving these messages from young people, the AKP government has continued recklessly to implement practices based on the interests of the capital owners, to plunder the city, to destroy the green areas. Here, the draft law, in fact, has come to our attention with an understanding that ignores all social sensibilities that exist in the protection of culture, the protection of society and individuals, the protection of the tradesman. I'll just give you an example: they're formulated through economic development all the time, but the number of museums in Turkey has already exceeded the number of museums in almost 4 or 5 times the number of European countries you model as economic development, the number of museums in which you sampled them. In Turkey alone, there is a terrifying painting, such as 370 AVM/295 museums, while in France 1,207, even 6,500 museums in Germany provide important clues to cultural life, social life, economic life. Of course, here we can see clearly how cruel the policies of the AKP (AKP) on the preservation of the tradesman are. Currently, your policies, which have brought the trades to almost total bankruptcy, have also reached a crucial extent, especially in the harsh winter conditions throughout Turkey. In almost all regions, the situation of tradesmen from Mediterranean, Thrace, Black Sea, all the way to our constituencies, all the way to our constituencies, is clear now that they can't even open the day with poverty due to heavy winter conditions. For example, from my own constituency, from Bingley: As you know, Bingol suffered a severe earthquake in 2003. According to official figures, 58 per cent of the city was affected by this earthquake, nearly half the city's tradesmen suffered major damage. But even so, Bingol was not declared a disaster zone after the earthquake. There was a commercial profit in real estate by TOKI. There, people were given flats with bills far above its cost, and with new interest in banks far above the current costs of those dwellings, both the tradesmen and the inhabitants of Bingol were driven into a complete stalemate. We've expressed it many times here on this council bench, and we've offered the law. In Bingöl, we had stated that both the tradesman and the public had no power to pay these installments, that this high interest debt you made through the banks should be taken away as a social state, as a state of law, as a matter of fact. Unfortunately, so far, these warnings have been ignored and these high interest debts have not been expunged. For the past ten days, there have been notifications of bills that have been inflated almost half the city with high interest rates. When you don't pay these in twenty days, when you don't pay these high interest rates to the banks, we will also foreclose on all houses. Look, from here, we're warning you again. A high level of social responses from an environment where you completely destroy the social state principle, completely destroy the rule of law, let alone make it easier in debting on the principality, where you try to take the people's breath off with high interest rates, and you try to drown them completely. These social reactions shape Turkey's agenda in a way that will free up the policies you've shown so far. We express here specifically that these wrongs must be abandoned at once. There are ministers here, officials of the AKP group again. In particular, we would like you to examine the situation of the tradesman and the people who have been dragged into a complete stalemate with these high interest debts. In Bingol, more than 70 per cent of the population live below the poverty line, more than 90 per cent live below the poverty line. If you don't pay these inflated bills to people living under the poverty and hunger line, we'll continue to raid our homes with foreclosures. If you apply your understanding, you'll cause big problems, big social outbursts. I especially want to repeat here the sensitivity to the protection of the tradesman, the protection of the public, the protection of the consumer. Again, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, that this bill has a major flaw in it.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0085par0528	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0086par0532	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action on the second part of Bill 675, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the grand jury. First of all, I'd like to point out that the meeting of this law on the Commission is a midnight operation. This bill was not ideal, Mr. Secretary expressed from this bench yesterday. I don't know if I'm wrong, Minister. We think it's the malls that are blocking your ideal, we think it's the investors. You announced from here yesterday that the governors would participate as representatives of the government. Governors don't join as representatives of the government. Maybe it's a slip of the tongue, but it could also mean what's in the human heart. It was said here yesterday that the malls didn't want tradesmen in terms of their own prestige. Of course, they don't have the means, they can't compete with them, they can't compete with them. In his statement today, Mr. Prime Minister said that they're going to lend interest-free loans to professions that are starting to disappear. Yeah, the tradesmen are a business group that's about to disappear. For him, the loan, which is $3.5-4 billion next year, will be increased again today. Rest assured, Mr. Secretary, 3.5-4 billion, you are a man who knows the public finances, not as much as the money spent on the White House today, and it's terrible if you think about the disparity of the inside. I mean, it's important to the citizens what it's worth to explain the ridicule. When you consider NGOs and representatives of these institutions, what did the government use them as a compromise with the PKK? Smart guy. So if you had done what they said, the files they gave us, the issues would have been solved significantly. You didn't do that either. What are you going to do with this bill? That's not what I call it, it's a statement from a member of the AKP. This is not my statement, but it's true. The statement may be a little different, but it's exactly like this. Why has this bill waited 12 years, 13 years? Why couldn't it be done? The opposition brought it. There was an interview with NGOs on the road. Representatives say the PKK -- I have just expressed -- is being used more often to soften the hearts of the people, not so important to the government as the representation of their professional groups, but I will do it. Now, in Article 173 of the Constitution, the state takes protective and supportive measures. It's been expressed differently by you that this bill didn't meet it. This bill is intended for the advantage economy. What is there in this, if you love God, that prevents the merchandise from being crushed? It says, "You will set aside five hundredths of space." You've already told me that shopping malls don't want them. And the Prime Minister of earlier times said, "Let them come together and what do they do?" - AVM courses. They wouldn't be like this if they could build a mall. Now, there's something like this here, but the tradesman is dying, he can't compete. The manufacturer has surrendered to the AVMs, and that's the way it is. Now, when you look at it, look at Denizli, one of the AVMs in Denizli is in court. On the other hand, they're building a new one now, which I think is for the perk economy. Be careful, a problem, say 'Hello', say 'What's going on?' I mean, it's a major city municipality with a majority of the AKP, so ask for God's sake. Now, when you look at it, it's like this, I'm not gonna say anything to them. So we're going to separate 5 percent of it. It says Mr. Prime Minister. The former prime minister says, "Let the AVMs unite, let them build." But let's just say they're a little out of it, they don't know, what if they don't have any sense at all? Isn't it a shame, isn't it a sin, isn't it? You're making the President of this country, the Prime Minister of this country tell you, it's a complete contrast. Now, you have a specific statement, I'll ask you later, but I've spoken to the business representatives, and my notes say that the volume of work has narrowed down; right, wrong, you tell me. The profit is reduced, the tradesman can't even afford the necessary costs, he's fallen into this situation, and as a result he can't pay the loan he's getting, he says. That's what the shop reps are saying. He can't pay taxes and social security premiums, he can't put them to bed, he limps, but he can't get over the crisis he's in before he gets better. These findings are correct. But how will the tradesman survive this crisis? You've already narrowed it down by half, put it in city centers, trouble. No matter how you look at it, it's not just crushing the tradesman, it's destroying the environment. I said, "My Lord! I drew a lot from the co-op, there's no parking problem in front of my house, it's open, it's out, but one day I came back, and the plans had changed, and they had to dig. I assure you, my wife's leg is broken, she's come out of the ambulance, she's come in, maybe 20 meters down, dug into my garden wall, couldn't get in or out. It doesn't happen, don't make people suffer, don't make people suffer. Plus, you're saying that the Turkish nation embraces this perky economy as a way of life, but the damage it does to the environment, it's a disgrace. With all this power, we can't handle what we're saying; it's terrible. Now, look, we need a series of precautions here. What do you need? You take the bag out every year in the law, you reconstruct it. You're restructuring, and if this guy pays, you won't be able to reconstruct the bag you already brought in the next year; you can't pay it, man, you're restructuring it again, whether you take interest or not, you're restructuring it again, the guy can't pay it. You need to figure this out. In this system, you call it a non-favorable loan or something, but wipe out the debt of the men. It happened in your era, your distress, and the trouble he's in today's situation, the suffering of the AKP. Now, let's see if it opens up a five-year tax return from the new business manager and artist. Give the movers some of that fuel support you gave the marines. What's the big deal? Give them parallel discounts. Make arrangements for the shopkeepers in favor of the tradesman's social security premiums. By facilitating the health benefits of insurance workers, make sure that more insured people remain within the scope and benefit from these benefits. These are their demands. Make extenuating arrangements on the social security premium for citizens' victims. Fill up the number of premium paydays and provide the necessary ease for the underage insurancemen, they're waiting, they're screaming. We'll give you the credit from here. You say, "We'll give it to Hibe." You say, "You'll strangle him from the other side." Let's build a proper bridge between education and employment. Let us provide more support for the workforce and for improving the quality of education through the training of apprentices. Now, when we look at all of this, you're talking about the People's Bank of Turkey through tradesmen's loan co-ops. You were selling the public bank and the agricultural bank before the crisis. You've learned that such banks are needed, you keep them, you have to keep them. Today the Prime Minister says: I gave instructions to the General Manager of the People's Bank. I thought it was the liberal economy, and you believed in the liberal economy. That's the economics of instruction. The industry's dead and so is the tradesman. There's a construction economy, that's what you know. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0087par0549	Thank you. The first word for his subjects is for Mr. Münir Kutluata. Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0088par0553	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a promise on Bill 675. I'd like to touch a dimension where I think the need to regulate this matter is very important. I know my time won't be enough for him, but I'd like to bring it to your attention. Members of lawmakers, while dealing with the problems of the AVMs, the damage done by the AVMs during the sale has been focused on the damage done to the shop and we all desire measures to protect the tradesman. However, the matter of the tradesmen's loss is a result of the damage the AVMs have done to the economy, because they do damage to the economy when buying, not when the AVMs are essentially selling. So, they keep the manufacturer under control, they keep the manufacturer under pressure, and they put the manufacturers, the industrialists, the SMEs, the middle-sized industrialists in the position of fruit producers who are desperate for vegetables. It's like the manufacturer doesn't get money there, the consumer doesn't get cheap vegetables, can't eat fruit, but every once in a while the state system turns. The economy's production stage here has been severely damaged by getting to about the same point. As long as this is kept out of sight, as it shows in this law, the arrangements to bring in are embezzled: AVMs are inevitable, if we can take certain measures related to the tradesmen, the profit is as much as we can save. No, the AVMs are in Turkey, where the economy's production foot is in ruins of the main area. Now, see, the production, then the brokers, retailers -- you can call them distribution channels or whatever -- and then the consumer. The system was the main element of the structure that led the product to the foot of the consumer, and now it goes with the AVM system to the manufacturer's foot, going to the foot of the product. So the manufacturer's out of business, so the capital doesn't go into production where the producer is disabled, the capital doesn't go into production, the capital goes into the speculative areas during budget talks. I said, "The other side of this is responsible for a system, which looks a little bit more innocent, that the small capital can do, that small groups can put a lot of capital into the areas that small groups can do, and that it is responsible for cutting off production and leaving small capital out. In that sense, I have to say that the AVMs, especially the grace he gave to the city aesthetic -- I don't know who used this expression -- are much sadder approaches, reflect much less developed economic logic. Dear lawmakers, if not looked at in this way, the AVMs, the brokers, who try to be a brand in sales rather than in production, are using it to reduce the profit of a manufacturer in the country and then turning it off to imports. So, Mr. Secretary said here, we're going to name the manufacturer on the product. You said it's a good thing, but it's a very small solution when we look inside this frame. In that sense, it is necessary to cut off the destruction through the AVMs by looking at the matter this way. Our people, forced to the AVMs, like chickens, who are forced to lay eggs on chicken farms for 24 hours, are forced to take refuge in the AVM because their parking yard services are inadequate and have to spend all the time. You're not supposed to be... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think this framework should be based on the scale of the economy and the damage to the production of the economy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0089par0562	Thank you. Ýzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam... Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0090par0566	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, my fellow lawmakers, who spoke before me, described the circumstances of the tradesman very well. I believe Mr. Minister knows because the Justice and Development Party MPs aren't here today, and the Commission said that the tradesman is in more trouble than I am. But, for some reason, those who came here today, from these microphones, those who made the motions, those who spoke, they're disappearing, you're condemning them to the AVMs, our culture is gone. Guys, let's figure out what we want to do. There's no need to fool people. The truth is, today's law is really victimized by the tradesman and the artist, the industrialist. You're turning the industrialist into a subcontractor. That's what Kutluata (Kutluata) just said. You know, they're going to be called small names, so the name of the manufacturer of the AVM brand will only be on the bottom, the brand of the AVM. What's going to happen? The brand is known as the mall, the manufacturer's industry... Tomorrow he'll tell the manufacturer: "Get out of the way, I'll make whatever I want. Dear friends, see, in that sense, with a few changes in this law, you could have made this law beautiful. One, a company doesn't own 5,000 stores on the street, my friend. You're going to discriminate against people who open 5,000 stores on every street, and you're going to say, "If you're opening a store in the street, brother, you're going to put a parking lot." It's so simple, it's so simple, it's so simple. You're not doing this. We've just made a motion, and we said, "Well, one way to avoid the competition of grocery stores that compete with the grocery store is to ask for at least two parking lots when 5,000 stores enter a street. It's as simple as that. At least protect the grocery store so they don't get in the alley. Let them open it wherever they want, so they don't come between the streets, brother. Don't let him come all the way down the street and hit your throat. Do that. Is that so hard to do? Does that scare you that much? Second: Friends, look, you will condemn Turkey's production to foreign, import. One day those who take over all these markets will sit across from our manufacturers, and if you give me this price, I'll buy it, or I'll import it and bring it from the outside. You're handing over the future of the country's economy, the market to others. Because if a man owns 10,000 stores, he'll sell the meter to the financiers whenever he wants, so the great giants of America are waiting for the market to pick up in Turkey. They say: "These small square meters are not enough for us, so prepare us a million square meters, and then we will come and buy it." These are the same purchases. One day, you guys who've had this grocery store strangled, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 stores, will be selling them to international companies who want to buy big malls, selling them to Walmart, selling them to Americans, selling them to Germans, Italians, and then we'll sit around and wonder where our country's producers are going to sell them, export incentives, loans. Something that could get this bad. We've offered you practical ways of preventing these things, we've proposed them in the Commission, we've proposed them here, but unfortunately you're not listening to us. It's easy to look out for the tradesman. Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan just told me. Five years of taxing, look how he's opening up a business. Segregate those who will compete between the streets with him. Give some encouragement to the people who work for him, his electricity, his insurance. And do not lend to him any loan, nor will he ask for it. He brings forth his provision with his female and his child, and his wife, and in the workplace, without waiting for anything; and there is no burden upon you. But if you leave that man helpless in the face of the elders, if you leave that tradesman to his fate and put him in a very difficult position to live after that, then you can't protect the tradesman. In this law, it was necessary to take care of them, but I'm afraid you couldn't do that. Hopefully, he'll be in our power.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0091par0573	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0092par0576	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, certain regulations should have been issued as of November 28, 2014, under the Law provisions for the Protection of consumer 6502. I mentioned it in the last commission, and you said some of them were about to leave. But right now, there's not a single regulation that the Ministry has to take out, especially four regulations, that the Treasury Undersecretary has to take out, and there's a lot of people waiting on it. What's the progress on these regulations? What's the possible date on these? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0093par0579	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0094par0580	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there was a plane from Iran recently. I've reported this plane. You said: "These are the ones who bought the poor Tanal. " They were said to have arrived on the 6th of the month. However, I've made the calls in 13 percent. About the flights at that time, both the flight tower and Istanbul and Ankara said they had changed their schedule of action. According to your statement, you said 19 tons of illegal cigarettes were seized on the plane. What is the fate of this plane? Just a heads-up, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0093par0582	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0095par0583	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2010, under the title of your government, "The Change, Transformation and Support Project" was developed and presented to the public. Under certain headlines, he had words that contained a lot of material. In four and a half years, how many of these titles have your government carried out? One. Secondly, do you have any work to make legal arrangements for the decisions of the Trade Company, which took place in November? When do you intend to make the description of Esnaf? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0096par0587	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0097par0588	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the distribution of the Cumhuriyet daily at dawn this morning is being blocked by the police chiefs for an hour without a court order, so it's about the departure of vehicles. Is this public freedom of information a threat or a threat to the press? What do you know about this? Is there a court order here? Is there a court order for delaying the distribution of YAYSAT? For in this regard, you will appreciate that Article 22 of the Press Law, Article 24, Article 5 of the Article 5 of the Law is seeking the verdicts of the court. What's your information on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0098par0591	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0099par0592	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, first, Mr. Light's question was, "What is the latest situation regarding regulations that must be adopted under the protection of the consumer? Now, as of right now, there are only two regulations that we haven't referred to the Prime Minister, which I'm guessing, in 15 days at the latest... of course, these regulations are very comprehensive, they're very important, they're very important; we're doing serious work on issues that concern the public very closely. There were 23 regulations in this frame that we had to take out, so we've now transferred 21 of them. So most of them have been published; there are two or three of them that are not published, waiting to be examined in the prime minister's office -- I don't remember exactly right now -- but there are two more that we're going to move, and they're going to continue their work. In the coming days, we will complete their work and hopefully conclude them. Now, Mr. Tanal, there's a plane matter he's reported to our Ministry, and he's raised a question about it. You know, Mr. Tanal, in your tip letter, you declared yourself a healer to the ALO 136 line, and on a Saturday -- if I remember correctly -- to our Ministry. And we've created special teams at 3 airports, just in case, at this request, at Ankara Esenboğa, Ataturk Airport and Sabiha Gökçen Airport, and we've started to wait and monitor all developments at the same time. We've waited three or four days -- you know we've also informed you about these developments -- but this plane -- the plane that you're talking about -- when the plane didn't arrive -- when the plane that you're talking about didn't arrive -- and you said that it would come at night, which you're talking about, and if I don't remember correctly, it would come at night, and we've expanded a little research, we've expanded work, and we remember that this plane, which had the same properties in the tip letter or information, and that its property itself was being processed on December 6th, and that its property was normally being processed, not as you said, but its cigarette -- its right -- there was a little bit of kiwi, but it was an important part of the remaining part of England, and I remember that it was being sent down to a thousand cigarettes, as a number of cigarettes, which was reported at the same time as at the time as the time as the time as the time. Anyway, I mean, it's numbers, but I remember 19 tons. The plane's coming, and when it does, the general rules state what needs to be done. However, our legislation for shipping to England is lacking. So the language of the country, where tobacco products are to be shipped, must include warnings, warnings. Since he doesn't carry these conditions, that item, the cigarette, is being taken to the foyer, and his investigation is under way. We've assigned an inspector to him. So in connection with this cigarette and also your letter of notice, we've assigned investigators to investigate the entire scale of the incident. Right now, that study is going on. Whether it will be returned to its privacy or destroyed, these studies continue to determine the situation under the required legislation. It will be concluded as soon as possible, and we will also inform you about it, Mr. Tanal. Now, again, as Mr. Tanal has done a different practice on the distribution of the Republican newspaper and has not made this distribution... in detail, since I do not know much about it...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0100par0597	YAYSAT didn't deliver. I'm sorry if the question was misunderstood. The police are blocking the distribution of YAYSAT. An hour of distribution was blocked there, that's the problem, Minister.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0099par0598	Okay. So, since I don't have any information about this, Mr. Tanal, I think we've had these developments while we've been in these congressional negotiations. I'll get some information on him and introduce it to you in writing as well.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0100par0599	It's morning today.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0099par0600	Yeah. So I will present this information in writing, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Akçay requests information on the amendment, the transformation, the Support Strategy Document, and the issues included in this document, which were implemented in 2010. Now, there are 30 actions in total, or there are steps that need to be taken in this transformation project, in this document. 17 of them are ongoing subjects, which are constantly going on and on and on, which means that it has to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. They're already going on, taken and on. 17 of the 30 measures in this case. Nine countermeasures complete. 17 of the 30 measures continue, it has to continue, nine have been completed, four of which have not yet been completed. I can read them, too, if you'd like, the unfinished ones or the complete ones. If you'd like, I'd like to share with you what's all over quickly: the situation of the occupational arm, which has traditional, cultural and artistic value and is about to be lost, will be reviewed. • Reviewed, some tax exemptions also exist in this law, some opportunities have been provided. A tax-free trade tax will still be imposed on the occupational branches of the trade. When conditions arise, it will be able to be taxed in a simple way. It has been provided, you know, and it is being implemented now. The working group was formed to support the clustering activities of the tradesmen and artists. The fees paid by TESK to the National Production Center have been lifted, meaning it will be lifted. ▪ The task, authority, and responsibility of the scientists related to electricity will reevaluate the limits of their work, and this arrangement has been carried out. It will be possible for those who have a master's certificate to become managers of business and artistic enterprises. Some documents, you know, that made it easier for the tradesmen and artists to participate in public contracts, were provided with additional opportunities. ▪ The Social Security Institution will be represented at the Governing Body. These are the complete ones. There are four who have not yet been completed: there will be a change in the Law on Trade and Artists No.5362, which has yet to be concluded. A portion of this has been provided, and it is now being corrected by law. There will be legislation for resolving problems under the training of the apprentice. • The draft law on him is also in place, so it will be discussed in the coming days. Again, the fourth one is not complete: education will be standardized in professions outside the scope of training as an apprentice. This, again, has reached the final stage of work within our Ministry of Labor, which has been discussed in the Council of Ministers. I suppose in the coming days, he'll have a legal arrangement, too. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit03spe0101par0616	Thank you, thank you. Now I'm gonna take a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0101par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 675. The Commission and the Government are here. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions in Article 14 that I will have read and process in order. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and demand that the provision of the provision of the law under Article 14 of the current 675 rows be replaced by the statement of the establishment. İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) 14. We submit and propose that the following joke be replaced by the article (3). The Co-operatives pay 50 per cent of the taxes to be collected under the 193 Taxes Act and 5520 Taxes Act for the period of 10 years from when they are established. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aygün Turhan Tayan İlhan Demiröz Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Süleyman Çelebi Mahmut Tanal Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) 14. We propose and propose that the article (1) be changed in the following way. ί1) The supply and distribution cooperatives can be established, which are actively part of the trades and artists, for the purposes of the sale of goods by trade and artists. The establishment of these cooperatives and the main contract amendment are subject to the Ministry's permission. Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Reşat Right Mustafa Kalaycı Commission, do you agree? We're giving you credit, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0102par0032	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0101par0033	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to ensure the establishment of supply and distribution cooperatives by tradesmen and artists. Reverends, I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) 14. We submit and propose that the following joke be replaced by the article (3). The Co-operatives pay 50 per cent of the taxes to be collected under the 193 Taxes Act and 5520 Taxes Act for the period of 10 years from when they are established. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0103par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0101par0046	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0104par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 14th amendment of Bill 675. I salute your high council. For the past 50 years, there has been a rapid migration from the countryside to the cities. The gathering of economic production centres in cities and the fact that the labor force is managed from these centers has led to a rapid increase in urban populations. Some 75 percent of our population also live in cities, and even a significant portion of that population is concentrated in several major metropolitan areas. The rapid changes in our country's economic development and globalization have also changed our consumption habits. Thus, new social, cultural and shopping areas have been needed in our lives. In the beginning, shopping malls in the retail sector, large store chains have been effective in all aspects of our lives, following a rapid development course over the past decade, leading to valuable lawmakers. Minister, if you'll listen to me, I'd like to ask you a few questions. I know you're doing the law on malls because you think there's something wrong with society. I'd like to say that we agree. But I'm afraid I have to state that you're only looking at the subject in a commercial dimension. Have you considered, Minister, whether the malls are environmentally harmful when they are allowed to be built in urban centers? Protecting an artist, an artist, a citizen shouldn't just be interested in their business relationship, shouldn't it also be protecting the environment we live in? Look, Minister, there was a change in the CED regulations in 2014, and earlier, in this regulation, the area above 5,000 square meters in the AVMs was subject to CED. With the recent change, you have allowed the exclusion of closed spaces below 50,000 square metres from CED. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Your esteemed bureaucrats here, you're setting up a bill like this, and there's not a line in your bill about environmental regulation, there's not a line in the AVM, there's not a sentence, there's no precaution. The CED law was adopted, from 5,000 to 50,000, which is 10 times higher. You're attempting to take a measure to protect retail sales and citizens' rights, and unfortunately, your bureaucrats haven't done a single procedure about it. I want to emphasize that it is of course important to protect and make arrangements for our tradesman, artist, and artist. In these areas, it is also important to make arrangements for the damage that will come from their commercial structures. However, shouldn't the arrangement to protect our living areas, to protect the environment that we believe to be as important, as meaningful as this? I have a suggestion for you, if you're sincere, about the 5,000 to 50,000 square meters mentioned in the previous CED exemption, come, let's make an offer in the next legislation, and let's ask the AVM, which is closed over 5,000 square meters, to be subject to the EED application of the AVM again. If you're sincere, I expect that from you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, many of my fellow lawmakers have told me what to do with it. Before me, I don't want to repeat what very valuable lawmakers say about this, but I especially want to stress to the Minister: Yes, let the AVMs, let the citizens address the demands for retail sales. Because the area we live in comes to another point -- urban development, global development, there's a great deal of problems with common cultural areas in large metropolitan areas, but if there are areas that don't contaminate the environment and its habitats, and it doesn't threaten the small trades and artists, and it's adapting with the locals in cultural, social, social, sporty, sports, cultural culture, and our way of life, and it's trying to keep them alive, social, cultural, artistic, artistic, green areas, let's all of us do it together, with the record of not leaving citizens in a difficult position outside the center. But I'd like to correct the arrangement on the CED, if you'd like, with a motion. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0105par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Members of parliament, since the first joke of Article 14 has been changed completely by the motion adopted just now, the motion of Mr. Idris Baluken and his friends to change this joke has been removed from the process. I submit Article 14 to your votes within the framework of the motion adopted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 15 which I shall have read in order and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of relevant associations and rooms to come after the statement of the 1st article of the 675th amendment. İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) is 15 of the 15th Amendment. We propose and to add to the fair competition and the adjudication of the article, which is found in (1) joke, to be added after the declaration of trade in retail, and to be prepared in accordance with the opinion of the ITBB and TESK. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) is 15 of the 15th Amendment. We propose and propose that the article (1) be changed in the following way. The Ministry's Co-ordinators' Council, which is a balanced representation of every geographical region and trade group, concerned civil society institutions, trade rooms, trade rooms, trade and industry rooms, trade rooms, trade and industry rooms, to help create policies for the sector, to identify the issues, to determine the measures to be taken, and to ensure co-operation between relevant institutions and organisations. The Council's Secretariat services are run by the Ministry of Interior Trade General Directorate. Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Reşat Right Ali Öz Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0106par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0105par0086	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0107par0087	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 15 of the Law Bill 675. I hereby salute your high council. Take good care of what these malls have really earned and lost. In our country, unfortunately, for many years, there has been no arrangement with the pressure of lobbyists in order to eliminate the elements that the small and medium tradesmen complained about after the shopping centers came on the agenda, especially after the 90s. Thus, a small and medium-sized tradesman has been dragged into harm's way in the following period, but the order of cities has also been set in motion for the implementation of a large-scale economy in order to increase the revenues of companies with large capital. In this article, the Ministry's co-ordinatorship states that the Council of Payers will be formed. As you recall, in the 2010 referendum, the economic and social council was set up in a similar way to assess the direction of the business and economic progress of the business in Turkey, in which direction the economy evolved, where there were many polished words. It was said that they would come together, that they would gather every three months, and that certain decisions would be made, and that decisions would be made here. Unfortunately, none of this happened during your administration. We now see that these shopping malls are now entering, especially city centers, into the streets, even between the neighborhoods. We also know clearly that they have no contribution to production, and that they have no value to add to the cities where they are and where they are founded. I'll give you an example of the knowledge that I'm my own MP: you've brought in big, big malls, you've built them. Their purchases are not in the production areas. Most of them don't even have tax records in those provinces. He comes to the big firms, wherever he is, in trucks, in cars. It's a beautiful shelf layout. So, whatever's here to encourage sales, to make consumption attractive, they're put on display in those beautiful areas. So we're actually laying the foundation of this structure where the citizen fell into today, where his consumerism has increased so much, he can't even pay his credit cards, and he's in court, where the foreclosures are coming in. How did Western countries do that? In Western countries, we know that if a small and medium-sized tradesman who lives in that area from a built-in hypermarket chain is going to suffer, they've created a fund of some of the revenues these new markets are going to get, and they've made arrangements to compensate for their loss. What are we doing? On the contrary, in an effort to destroy small and medium trades, we give an infinite opportunity to build shopping malls everywhere. It's not the right thing to do. With this arrangement, it's impossible to make real tight incomes, tradesmen and artists breathe in this economy day by day. And, of course, our friend -- who spoke before us -- really, these shopping malls -- the AVM -- need to be analyzed well. The health minister of this country is leaving, saying that one of our biggest challenges is to fight obesity and to set up obese centers that have become a chronic disease in society. On weekends, parents go with their children, and when they go, no one has to take them to their children, whatever's in those normal unstable dietary criteria -- child is child, you can't break it, you can't break it -- family doesn't want to. I mean, on the one hand, when we're doing something, we need to be aware that we're destroying things with our own hands. These malls are one of the main sources of traffic problems in major cities, contributing to pollution, occupying certain areas, allowing cities to appear irregularly. You're not making a legal arrangement about who this council is going to be, who's going to be a member of this council, how the decisions made on this council are going to be made, you're transferring it to regulations. This is also contrary to the Constitution, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0108par0099	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 Orders of the Law Charter on Editing of Trade in Payacine (Perace) is 15 of the 15th Amendment. We propose and to add to the fair competition and the adjudication of the article, which is found in (1) joke, to be added after the declaration of trade in retail, and to be prepared in accordance with the opinion of the ITBB and TESK. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0109par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0108par0109	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0110par0111	Mr. Tanal, bravo.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0108par0112	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0110par0113	Wow...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0108par0114	No, I'm a school sister, a schoolteacher's sister, so...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0111par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I'm a teacher's school background. We call the teacher's school people the upper class the "Abla"; we call the men the "Abla" (abla) and our girlfriends the "Abla" (abla). It's something that happens in our culture, teachers' schools. In that respect, I'd like you to know that when we speak to Mr. President, I'll address him as a sister. Dear lawmakers, of course, when we look at this law, yes, you have to admit, how many members of the ruling party own a hypermarket right now? So why don't we really limit the shops, shopping malls, why don't we take a restraining order? The answer to the question is, how many people from the Justice and Development Party own big malls, and if they can be explained, why are the malls here protected, and why are small tradesmen and tradesmen not protected? So, what's the government doing about shopping malls, always dreaming of joining the European Union? How are the arrangements in the European Union? Are there major shopping malls in the European Union in the city? For example, for example: In accordance with Article 11/3 of the German Trade Law, large shopping centers are not allowed in the city centers. So, what do we do from this angle? In Turkey, it's very comfortable, we're making major shopping malls in any place that's comfortable, regardless of the traffic in that area or the infrastructure or the environment or the parking structure or the parking situation. The same is true in Italy; again, this issue is banned in the marketplaces. However, it is the same in France. I mean, we, really, don't take the good norms in Europe, but where the money comes in... And we're trying to get the money -- if it comes to the government, whether it comes to the treasure, whether it comes to the government, whether it robs the treasure -- to bring this business of profit back to the lawmakers who own the hypermarket that are around us. As we wrap this up, Mr. Secretary, about the question I just asked you, this famous plane... This plane... I -- it's comfortable -- when I met the flight tower for that day... The flight tower's entire conversation record is under record and record. My request is to ask you, in the talks at the flight tower, that this plane is a plane that carries equipment to the Prime Minister's office, and for that reason they don't inform the staff there, but who wants this information, can I speak to him? Can I speak to the people on this flight tower personally, explaining my public identity? And they're always saying it's a plane that delivers goods to the Prime Minister. You just said that 19 tons of illegal cigarettes were obtained from this plane. So, how does a plane that brings stuff like this to the PM have anything to do with illegal smoking? There was a kiwi here in our bet, and there was a dollar in it, and you didn't say anything about the dollar. In your custody or here in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, in the custody of all independent lawmakers, how was the search done on this plane? Are you recording these calls? Is there a record? So the flight tower... it will always give the plane rotation motion, change its flight plans, sir, and this plane will land at Sabiha Gökçen Airport in Turkey seven days ago. This is against the nature, nature of the object, because every plane from abroad to Turkey is on radar there, and it's clear when or when the plane arrives. The plane from seven days ago... can't the crew in the flight tower know that this plane isn't coming? It may be because your regular personnel at the aircraft tower... are always said to have changed this flight rotation. For him, we really think you're a major smuggler in this case. We ask you, in terms of public enlightenment, that all lawmakers control this aircraft in terms of public supervision. If you made a call, did you do it on a screen, did you do it on a camera tape, which I would like you to share with us, thank you, all of you. My respects.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0112par0125	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of relevant associations and rooms to come after the statement of the 1st article of the 675th amendment. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0113par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0112par0135	Mr. Zozani, please.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0114par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I've been promised to express my views on this clause, but unfortunately, our country's developments at times affect our agenda at times, moment to moment, and can reach even the extent of the context of our conversation. As of this hour, the Co-Chairs of the Democratic Society Congress, Mr. Hatip Dicle and Mr. Selma Irmak have visited the city recently due to events in Cizre and held a meeting calling for common sense. Just after the meeting, there was no incident in the city, another 12-year-old boy died with a police bullet. Another 12 - year - old boy named Nihat Kazanhan had joined the caravan of children who had been slaughtered during your reign. Lately, you've been saying a lot of things in power, you're talking about public safety. That's the police department under your command, that's the security agency that's disrupting public security. On what grounds was a 12-year-old boy murdered today in Cizre, we're asking the Minister for an explanation, and we're asking him to make a statement. We're trying to calm the street, we're trying to pour water into the burning fire, but unfortunately, you're pouring gasoline into the fire with your apps. Today, you have to come here and tell me what it is to put a bullet in a child's head in the middle of the street, in a public place. Don't talk to us about public safety until you explain this, not about public safety, not about building it in any way. You're the one who broke security, the cops at your disposal, those are the ones who violated public security. We, on the contrary, are trying to keep quiet. That's why our co-chair, co-chairs, lawmakers went to Cizre today, but if you're sabotaging even a visit like this, if you're provoking it, you'll have nothing to say.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0115par0140	You think about the rest.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0114par0141	Yes, the government must explain why this child was murdered in the middle of the street in Cizre today; otherwise, it is your responsibility. Look, just yesterday, the court is one of the officers on trial for the murder of Hrant Dink. The prosecutor's office has demanded his arrest, the court has ruled that he be tried without arrest by ban to leave the country, and such a person provokes the public in Cizre. You put him there, and you're making that provocation consciously. It's part of your policy. Otherwise, you can't explain anything to us. It is part of your policies that have happened in Cizre, in Nusaybin, in Silopi, and in Yüksekova. As long as you don't come forward and make the opposite statements here, these perpetrators...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0115par0143	They can't go up there, they can't go up there.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0114par0144	...as long as you don't rid this gang of murderers of the police force, you can't tell us anything else. I was really going to present here what we've prepared for this item today. Look, we've got a law here, we're arguing, we're going to take the next clause and try to address the issues that we've been missing from here, but today, nothing is more valuable than the 12-year-old boy that was executed by police in Cizre Street. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As long as you don't come forward and make a convincing statement, the blood of the boy who was murdered in Cizre is in your hands. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0116par0150	Come on, let's hear it for Bulent Arinc!
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0117par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0118par0152	Mr. Bostanci, let me put it to a vote, and then I'll give you my word. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0119par0156	I don't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0120par0157	Mr. President, why did you promise?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0119par0158	So, in the name of the government, someone has to come out and make a statement, and my friend has been very clear.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0121par0159	Maybe he'll do it himself.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0122par0160	Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0121par0161	Wait a second, I didn't pick up.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0123par0162	I expected a statement from the government, Mr. President, but at least under the Civil Code, he should have explained why he was objecting, what he was objecting to, and that's what the Civil Code said.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0121par0163	No, you asked for information.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0123par0164	I didn't ask for information from him. In what capacity will he inform me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0124par0165	He's not a government official.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0123par0166	The government official is here, in what capacity...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0125par0167	So, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0123par0168	No, that's not an app, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0125par0169	One second, one second, one second...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0126par0170	The government is a government supported by the EC PARTY Group.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0123par0171	On what grounds?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0125par0172	One second, one second, one second...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0127par0173	There are two Ministers here, let them come out and answer.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0125par0174	One moment, one moment, please.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0128par0175	Sir, I've been President of the Solution Commission, and I know these issues, so if you'll excuse me in that frame, I'll speak.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0125par0176	I promised him I'd give him information. That's why you're right, I should've asked ahead, to speed it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0128par0180	Mr. President, dear friends, thank you very much. Mr. Adil has made some allegations here, made some assessments. Turkey is a state of law. Every job the police do, every job a citizen does, is considered legally. If there's anything you're talking about, it'll be cleared up, so don't worry.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0129par0182	The death of the 6th child!
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0128par0183	However, during the solution process, not across the east, but you do know that the region of Cizre, Şırnak, Hakkari and Yüksekova is mobile. It's like a separate atmosphere out there.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0130par0184	It's not the atmosphere, it's the government.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0128par0185	So I went with the Commission of Solutions to Hakkari, Şırnak Cizre, and we had talks here. What we saw was that children in the streets, 12, 15, 17 years old, in groups of 50 people, 100 people, with their Molotov cocktails, from time to time, come out, set the place on fire, and they did these acts all the time. And here's the thing that I've witnessed: security guards were acting with great care because there were young children there, even burning, burning, Molotovated police who wanted to be cremated in many cases, who didn't use a gun to stop the person who did it, because whatever they did, they're our children, and we'll see. Therefore, there is a legal assessment of the subject you speak of, and the public will be informed.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0131par0186	In the last month, the 6th child has been slaughtered. I mean, there's nothing to talk about here...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0128par0187	We don't know what it is yet. I mean, there's a very political synthetic language in this area. Let the law be judged, and the public be enlightened. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0133par0191	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0192	Mr. President, I didn't really ask him anything, and I didn't expect an explanation from him.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0134par0193	He didn't make a statement.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0194	He didn't make a statement. However, he expressed that the information I gave was directed towards creating a political synthetic perception. And I don't know what that synthetic thing was, but I don't know what it meant.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0135par0195	You want to talk about teasing?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0196	Yeah.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0136par0197	I didn't make fun of you, sir. I never picked on you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0135par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0201	Now, Mr. Bostancı, in the last month, the 6th death in Cizre. Today, lawmakers from our party went there with the co-chairs of the Democratic Society Congress to provide relief to the atmosphere there. I'm reading here today the testimony of an eyewitness about the murder of 12-year-old Nihat Kazanhan, who was killed by police bullets. Look, don't try to justify these massacres here, it'll be very difficult.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0136par0202	Oh, there's no such thing, I'll deny it, I'll deny it.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0132par0203	It would be very difficult for you, and you'd find it difficult to explain, I'll tell you that. See, I read exactly as one of the witnesses, John Arbane: Our house is near there. It's where we always play ball and sometimes sit. In the past few days, the only thing cops do is come in and shoot gas bombs and guns when there's no action, no action, no activity. That's what it was like today. The cops came in, yelled at the kids, threw gas bombs, and then there were gunshots, and we saw the kid fall down with a bullet in his head. Look, I'm giving you a name, Mr. President. I'm talking about a 12-year-old boy who was executed in the head by police fire, murdered. A 12-year-old wouldn't hurt you if he threw a rock at you from here. We're trying to figure out what you have that would justify putting a bullet in a 12-year-old boy's head. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And the question is not for you, but for government representatives to come here and explain.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0137par0208	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0138par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0137par0210	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0138par0211	He said I was speaking about legitimizing the massacres, and I want an answer. It's a tease.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0139par0212	No, I can't. Don't even talk about it, that's enough. No, don't talk so much.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0137par0213	Excuse me, excuse me. Now, I'm going to promise you, but look, I don't think it's very helpful for you to continue this matter mutually. I mean, if this keeps up, I'm gonna take a break. I mean, a careful language, please. I don't think you're doing anyone any good...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0140par0215	Always... always...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0137par0216	No, I'm saying something else, Hajji. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0140par0219	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't think it's right to make any sense that I've legitimized the massacres from my conversation here, Mr. Justice. What I'm saying is, whatever the situation is, it'll be judged legally. And you know very well that there really are a lot of provocations going on in the area. This one can have different sources. And you're witnesses to them. Out of those crowds, there are those who shoot at the police, there are those who put those kids in the field, there are other kinds of interests that are being arranged as a means of intercession.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0141par0221	Oh, nothing today, Mr. President. You don't know a thing about it.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0140par0222	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0141par0223	No weapons, no action, nothing. It's a shame!
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0140par0224	There's a claim here that I legitimized the massacres. There are many kinds of provocations there.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0141par0225	No provocation today.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0140par0226	The government is taking great care to bring the solution process to its path, against all these provocations. And We ask you, [O believers], to share in it. Otherwise, it's not a contribution, Mr. Adil, to draw such a conclusion from the conversation I'm making here. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0142par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit04spe0143par0230	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 42nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0142par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0143par0003	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0142par0004	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a moment to record a matter.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0143par0005	That's how it works.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0142par0006	Now, what we've just brought up is that we've been waiting for the government to answer all the questions we've asked on the floor of the House. In addition, Mr. Bostanci, vice president of the ruling party, has used the parliamentary chair twice to suggest that there has been some bullying over what I've brought to the agenda.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0143par0008	It wasn't teasing before.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0142par0009	And we discussed the murder of a 12-year-old boy with a police bullet. I regret to inform you, Mr. Group Vice President has not even made a statement expressing his regret about the murder of a 12-year-old boy, even though he has used the bench twice. I'd like that on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0143par0011	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0144par0014	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have been promised to inform our General Assembly of an incident and to offer you my best wishes. In our city, Isparta, in our province, a restaurant in a shopping mall has just fallen to news sources where 26 people have been injured as a result of a cast ceiling collapse. We're trying to get a lot of information on this, but at this point, I wish my citizens of Isparta well, both on behalf of my own and on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, and on behalf of our urgent wishes. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0145par0020	We will continue negotiations with Bill 675. The Commission and the Government are here. There are three motions in Article 16 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke (c) of the 16th article of the current law bill 675 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on Editing Performance Trade." Article 1. So let's say it's a, and c, with its curves, it's 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. A) To work on the spread, growth and development of retail sectors and retail businesses across the country, c) Compiling, editing, and publishing statistical information, A) As part of the ministry's proposal to take the views of top professional organisations, by setting up the criteria for opening and operating businesses on the basis of the opening and operating arm, the number of businesses and their access to each other, the burdens that businesses will bring to the environment, infrastructure and traffic, and economic, social, demographic and environmental factors such as the risk of life and property safety, and the criteria set up for the opening of PERBIS business and appropriation process of employment licenses. B) Based on the Ministry of Interior's proposal and the appropriate view of the Ministry of Interior, on issues dated 14/6/1989, on opening and closing operations through PERBIS, and on regulations and regulations of the procedures and principles regarding these issues. C) To keep businesses within the service sector within this Law, in the area of which they are located, or in the arms, out of the scope of the ministry's proposal, He's in charge. Alim Işıl Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yilmaz Reşat True Yusuf Halaçoğlu Adnan Şikk Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on Editing Performance Trade." We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz İlhan Demiröz Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0146par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0145par0054	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0147par0055	Ali Sarıbaş...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0145par0056	Mr. Yellowhead, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0148par0058	Mr. President, I can't say that I'm happy to take a stand on such an offer of law as a grown man from my own family and my father's family. Because I want to tell you about the tradesman, the artists, and our small tradesman... a law that sweeps the front of his shop in the morning to do his work, gets up early and says hello to everyone, everybody's grief partner, strawberry and all our cultures, that would mean that such an important matter would be burned apart from the fact that these merchants are being crossed. In fact, the merchants had been waiting a long time for this law, but in this bill, the mountain had given birth to mice, and in fact, their important demands were not what they expected. Friends looked out of a very different window, but I'll give you a little bit of a description: the planning of cities -- with great cities -- is the commercial centers of cities, the city's plan is one. With its green areas, the cities, along with human life, are planned to be human-focused, and in this sense, constructions are not made to be destroyed later in the integrated development plans of cities on the island and on the parcel, as in Turkey anywhere in the world. Especially with proposals that make local governments and, in particular, the public and governments very attractive, and offer percentages, based on Rant, especially green areas, to be destroyed from the center of the city, planning is always broken and renovations are made. This means: Look, when that city is planned, we place in the city a traffic problem, the road width, the parking problem, the people's water, the sewers, the green area and oxygen along with the environment, and the planning of this city, which is calculated to include wind and sun, especially in recent years, after 2002, the AVM is rapidly becoming a corrupt and increasingly corrupt city center. What needs to be done here is to ensure that in order to prevent the world's modern city, sustainable city, and zoning plans, we must protect both our small tradesmen and the city within its habitable understanding, by taking the malls out of city centers in other countries, as in modern countries. Look, I'm very clear here, in this sense, we're always holding a bowl over this, and especially now in this bill, we're going to do this: we've done the AVMs, we've done the AVMs today, and we're not going to close the shops on Sundays, but we're going to give our small tradesmen the authority to open the shops. Don't fool people in front of this because we don't destroy the socialization of these people, especially not destroy the socialization of these people in the city, especially in order not to destroy the public spaces of those people in order to stop them from breathing. Turkey is now established in cities, villages, malls and hypermarkets. With just five companies, don't allow the entire consumption of this Turkey to destroy people's future production centers and agriculture. This is where we're going to live the art of art. Don't cheat. It's the law that actually destroys the religious culture. Now, please come, let's make this law right together, and as we suggested, let's take it out of construction in Turkey, and try to make sure that people don't go back to being comfortable, and that they're really comfortable, and that they're not going to be destroyed again in the last year. Look, what did Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan say at a mall opening? Now that the groceries are over, don't bother, let's keep opening the malls, let's give up this business, your capital is not enough. Once again, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in this understanding, makes law, I offer love and respect.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0149par0065	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th edition of the current 675 Orders "The Bill of Law on Editing Performance Trade." Article 1. So let's say it's a, and c, with its curves, it's 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. A) To work on the spread, growth and development of retail sectors and retail businesses across the country, c) Compiling, editing, and publishing statistical information, A) As part of the ministry's proposal to take the views of top professional organisations, by setting up the criteria for opening and operating businesses on the basis of the opening and operating arm, the number of businesses and their access to each other, the burdens that businesses will bring to the environment, infrastructure and traffic, and economic, social, demographic and environmental factors such as the risk of life and property safety, and the criteria set up for the opening of PERBIS business and appropriation process of employment licenses. B) Based on the Ministry of Interior's proposal and the appropriate view of the Ministry of Interior, on issues dated 14/6/1989, on opening and closing operations through PERBIS, and on regulations and regulations of the procedures and principles regarding these issues. C) To keep businesses within the service sector within this Law, in the area of which they are located, or in the arms, out of the scope of the ministry's proposal, He's in charge. Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITIVE MEHMET ERDOKAN (Gaziantep) Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0150par0081	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0149par0082	Mr. Ugly, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0151par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, of course, we say that we agree with this change, but in this opportunity, I've come to the stand to address some of our tradesmen's problems here. Now, there's a lot of stuff in this law about solving some of the tradesmen's bureaucratic problems, and there's even a lot of regulations that reduce bureaucracy, but there's one thing I don't understand: I mean, our province is Hatay, Reyhanlı, and Ankara, and it's the Syrian man who opens the shop, especially in Antioch. How can the Syrians open a shop in a single day while our own shop is applying for at least 15-20 places and working for days and somehow paying taxes? And the lawmakers, they were opening a dessert shop, they were opening a tailor shop, so, you know, they were opening a hummus store, and now they're opening a market, the market. I mean, there's got to be a pattern, this is a law state. Look, anyway, the lack of vision of power in this Syrian policy has brought the matter to this point, but at least see what happens next. I mean, these millions of Syrian brothers and I are going to live together for a long time, so keep that in mind. So, as Mr. Davutoglu put it, next week's prayer service at Emevi Mosque, these dreams, they're over, they're out. Since we can't hear much of Mr. Davutoglu's words from Mr. President anymore, then they're beginning to understand some things behind the scenes. So it's disturbing the peace. Let's not be surprised if we see a Syrian head of room in any of our trade rooms soon, which is what's happening, and it's causing unrest among the public. Now, in this law, we're going to solve the problems of legend. What is there to solve the tradesman's problem, the tradesman's economic problems? I don't see it. Now, if you're going to solve the problem of the tradesman once, you're going to give the farmer money to make money, raise the officer's salary, raise the employee's standard of living so that he can go to the shopkeeper, make money, and I'm going to tell him, sir, to improve his situation. The shopkeeper can't pay his debt, so he can't pay his loan. Hundreds of thousands of tradesmen couldn't retire, that's the President's statement. What do you call it? We opened up a loan for six months. I mean, if he already had money, he'd retire. So, we now have to express the necessity of doing a study of the tradesman's true problems. Members of parliament, from 2007-2013 to 142,000 -- this is the statement of Hayati Printer Bey- -- the grocery store, the dealership, the buffet was opened, but 111,000 were closed at the same time. Now, we can understand these openings: a newlywed, sold his car, opened up a place with a loan, but the closings are a ten-year business, remember that. I mean, there may be some very important social explosions as a result, so you have to be very careful. Also, when you say "esnaf" there is no state in Cizre, which is today, in many parts of the southeast, our shop closes its doors. The state's reputation is not protected by models concerned with 16 Turkish states. The government's reputation is protected by providing the opportunity to open the shop there and ensure its peace. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0152par0093	Thank you. I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Dear lawmakers, since the 16th amendment to the 16th article, which has been adopted, has changed completely, the motion of Mr. Idris Bauken and his friends to change this joke has been removed from the process. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 17 there are three motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is 17. We propose and propose that the clause of the article (2) be removed from the text of the article "needed for preliminary examination." Mehmet Ali Sesam Sinan Aydın Aygün Turhan Tayan Mahmut Tanal Dilek Akagün Yilmaz İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the organisational association and other corporate organisations to be added before the declaration of "rightly" in the second joke of the 675th amendment. İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 ranked "Law Bill on the Order of Business" is 17. Article (1). and (2). We offer and propose that their jokes be changed in the following way. The ministry is authorized to supervise retail businesses in connection with the implementation of this law, the problems and complaints that arise in practice. (2) The authorities are tasked and authorized to conduct and take the necessary inspections and measures within the framework of retail businesses within the framework of these Law provisions, as long as they are limited to their jurisdictions. Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITIVE MEHMET ERDOKAN (Gaziantep) Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0153par0121	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0154par0122	Motive...
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0152par0123	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement aims to make the foundations for the ministry's audits more specific and to address some problems that may be encountered in the implementation. I submit the government's motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Since this motion has been accepted, I will remove the other two motions from the process. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In Article 18 there are two motions, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 is the 18th edition of "The Bill of Law on the Order of Business in the Window." We propose and propose that the clause of the article (6) be changed to "three months" in the joke. Mehmet Ali Sesam Aykan Erdemir Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan Oktay Sorik Sakine Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that no less than a day's notice in the relevant jokes in Article 18 of the underlying 675 law bill be changed by the Ministry for less than 120 days." İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0155par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0152par0148	Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0156par0149	It could be a new polemic.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0152par0150	No, I'm not going to tolerate polymeal from now on, so I'm going to take a break right now.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0157par0151	You've done such an intervention that you can't wait to get polemic.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0156par0152	You address Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0152par0153	I advise you not to be stubborn with me. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0158par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I've made a commitment to this clause to address the issues I'm about to bring up. This is the 18th article that regulates criminal sanctions. Now, in order for these criminal charges to be met, the arrangement must also apply to him. However, the implementation and control mechanisms for all regulations and regulations of the law are, unfortunately, preventing your criminal activities here from being met. You form a council, you form a central council, you form a council in Ankara, but you leave it to the Governor of Hakkari to implement the working hours, well, we're comfortable with it, but we don't have the AVM, but the places with the AVM are going to have problems with it, and how do we do this? Now, I've looked at every single item. In fact, he would have to return this bill due to the fact that he was not prepared in accordance with the law technique, because it's a technical KHK technique here, a rule of law technique. Did you ever wonder how many regulations the Ministry will make if this bill is adopted here today and it becomes law? The ministry must prepare 12 regulations. How many articles are we talking about, how many articles of law are we talking about? We're discussing a 27-point law, a two-point executive and executive clause, a 25-point law. It's a law that says, "When you think about related substances, it's basically just management." So we don't have a text of the law, a bill. Now, I'm really surprised at what dimensions we're taking as a legislature that's so vague. An unprepared bill in accordance with the law technique, wrong from the start. 12 regulations will be drawn up, we don't know what's going to be in those regulations, they have troubled areas, they have open issues in law enforcement, they have issues to exploit. I make it very clear: the thick neck of the AVM will regulate its own working conditions, it will be able to build on the bureaucratic mechanism, and it will have its influence. If we discuss different things here the day after tomorrow, different practices, different hearings around here, let's not look out for the crime. If you are making such a legal arrangement, you are telling a citizen to know his work. It has been expressed in the past, and the top officials of the state have expressed: "My citizen, my officer, knows what he's doing." Look, the arrangement you're making here says that the well-known citizen, the owner of the AVM, who has a thick neck, hires the competent officer, conducts his business, regulates the working conditions in his own way. I'd be surprised at what you're doing in a law like this. So what we're suggesting is, add to the last item, there's a time for the 27th article. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Set up a regulation on whether or not the clause will be applied. Let's make it a law entirely under regulations. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0159par0164	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 is the 18th edition of "The Bill of Law on the Order of Business in the Window." We propose and propose that the clause of the article (6) be changed to "three months" in the joke. Aykan Erdemir (Bursa) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISION OF MEHMET ERDOKAN (GaziANTEP) ▪ We are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0160par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0159par0174	Mr. Tunay, come in.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0161par0176	Mr. President, honorable members, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 18 of the Bill of Law on the Order of Retails No. 675. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, first of all, I'd like to point out that this bill, which has been known in public for many years as a legal arrangement for the mall, has finally arrived at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a congressman, we're very happy about it. It's a very positive step, even if it's a little late, to be on our agenda and to discuss such a bill of law that concerns the nation. I sincerely congratulate the Ministry bureaucrats, especially our Minister. But, of course, the heart would have wanted to say that when we came out here as an opposition MP, there was a law that was not perfect, but that was close to perfect, and when we took this stand, we just wanted to say, "Good luck to the community and the nation." But when you look at the bill, we see that in many places there are certain problems, or, rather, flaws. Of course, we were just going to talk about the 17th article, the 17th article passed, and we're talking about the 18th article. But I would like to take this opportunity to say, perhaps, something that has never been spoken on this stand, something that has not been said much. In my constituency, Istanbul, there is a problem with the malls: We all experienced the August 17th earthquake together. There was a decision made after the August 17th earthquake. About 480 blanks in Istanbul have been identified as the site of the disaster gathering. We all supported that because there is no division of power or opposition in such a decision. We had a very painful earthquake, and God would never allow our nation to have such an earthquake again, and it was decided by hand. However, during the time of the arrival, we have seen many of the areas in Istanbul that have been identified as these 480 disaster gatherings, unfortunately and unfortunately, are being pursued by the AVM. I mean, I'm very sorry to say, I don't mean to use that expression, but these areas have been pursued by someone at the mall. Of course, when you look at it today, I'm not going to name all of these things one by one, but especially in my constituency area, we see that a large number of these disaster gathering sites are given to the AVMs in the name of creating some kind of a tranche. If you want an example, for example, there's a Capacity Mall in Copperville. The last example was a subject of controversy, an elevator disaster, we lost our workers, where Ali Sami Yen Stadium was in Mecidiyeköy. This was a disaster gathering place, even one of Istanbul's greatest disaster gathering places. And this was given to a firm -- you don't need the name of the incinerator -- and here's the residence, the mall project, all walking together. After that, a disaster gathering place like this was given to a mall under the name Meydan mall. Now, these examples are increasing, multiplying. I think we should talk a little bit about the AVM law or the AVM bill. So we call it an earthquake, God forbid, we say Istanbul is expecting a great earthquake, we all take precautions in our own way, the ruling or opposition municipalities, but when we see the practices that we're looking at, we see that there are enormous problems. Of course, today power has a certain power, the strength and number of opposition are not enough to ask the power to account for it. But I've always believed that there's a cube in the courtroom. So when we give these disaster venues to the AVMs, God forbid, none of us desire them, but when an earthquake, like August 17th, happens in Istanbul the next day -- all the scientists say that an earthquake, even more violent, will be in Istanbul -- will citizens at this disaster gathering place, when people can't gather, will those who make these decisions when they see that it's the AVM? In our understanding, in our faith, what does it say? Even for a sheep without horns, the court will certainly be held short for a sheep with horns. So, after we've done this legal arrangement, after we've discussed the bill, I think we're now aiming for the immediate use of disaster gathering sites to be actually used, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly has to make this arrangement. We face the same thing not only in Istanbul, but in all other provinces, but I wanted to express it specifically because my own constituency is Istanbul. I wish the bill would be a blessing for our country and our nation. I hope these setbacks, these difficulties will be healed by this Parliament, together, by its power, by its opposition, and that a proper, proper bill will come out of this place and be legalized. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0182	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree.. Sustained. I submit Article 19 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 22 that I'm having read and processed.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0163par0189	We pull back, we pull back the rest.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0190	Thank you very much. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the 24th article that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request the addition of the additive list, which is added to Article 640 and Article 675 of the 24th Amendment bill on the regulation of retail trade, which is currently in session, and to add the following joke to the same clause to the accompanying list. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can "Other than the additional 7th Article of the Court of Law 190 and the appointments under the central management budget laws, the ministry can appoint empty staffs to be appointed by the Ministry for the total of 3,000 not to pass without constraints in the central management budget laws." PRODUCTION : STRIKE AND TRAVEL EARLIER CINIFI UNVANI DERECT KADRO KADRO PRODUCTION : STRIKE AND TRAVEL EARLIER Is the commission in? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITIVE MEHMET ERDOKAN (Gaziantep) Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0164par0216	Mr. President, there's a problem with the motion. If the proposal had not been read, there would have been a motion in accordance with the text of the law, but there is a statement in the motion that goes up to 3,000 staffs, with 2,205 staff contracts in addition to the reading table. Now, in such a situation, there are 795 unaccounted for in addition to the law. It's a problematic motion as it is, it needs to be corrected.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0165par0217	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0218	Yes, please.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0165par0219	Sir, we've got 5,000 more on this list right now. So there are 2,205 new casts being committed, and 3,000 new staff are being delegated, which is, of course, in the proper manner, so on and so forth. Therefore, the other staff will be met from the current staff. In that sense, there's nothing technically wrong with him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0220	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0165par0221	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0222	I'm reading the reason: In recent years, new regulations have been made in the business, consumer protection, e-trade and retail sector, as well as a significant increase in customs business and transactions, depending on the development of foreign trade. In this framework, the Ministry of Customs and Trade has grown significantly in the field of duty and authority, and the workload has increased. In parallel with increased workload, the Ministry's administrative and control capacity is being arranged for the violation of the staff staff that it needs for the more efficient and efficient fulfillment of the services responsible for its responsibility and control. In addition, the second clause added to the clause is intended to provide the appointment of the central and rural community staff, without constraints in Article 7 and central management budget laws. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes on the matter 24/ within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 25 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 675 rankings are the 25th Amendment of the Law Bill on the Editing of Trade in the Payance. We offer and propose that the bill be removed from the script. Alim İlm Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISION OF MEHMET ERDOKAN (GaziANTEP) ▪ We are not participating. Government?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0166par0238	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0239	I'm reading the reason: The arrangement also aims to assess retail businesses as part of the Law provisions on Week Holiday 394 and to give vacations to employees at shopping malls. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the temporary article 1 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 26 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0167par0251	Mr. President, can I have a word with you for two minutes?
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0162par0252	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0167par0254	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have been promised to thank you. I salute you all. Yeah, well, I really appreciate everybody's help, all the friends, all the groups, all the MPs. Of course, I would like to thank the bureaucrat friends who have been involved in drafting this bill, all of our fellow MPs who have contributed to the work of the Commission, and Mr. Hayati Yazri, the Minister of Customs and Trade, who was my predecessor -- these works were done during his time. Hopefully, it will contribute to our tradesman and artist and all of Turkey, the economy. Good luck, I'm paying all of you my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-01-14sit05spe0168par0258	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, too. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Turkish Republic and the Jordanian Hashimi Kingdom, about the Compulsors' Approvement of the Transferline Dair Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with the Law on the Building of the National Mine Action Center and with the Law on Changes in Some Laws and the National Defence Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, the decision was made on Thursday (January 15th 2015) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
