tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 91st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to a congressman off the agenda. The unscheduled statement belongs to Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who asked about the 18th anniversary of the death of the late President of the National Movement Party Alparslan Türkesh. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on the 18th anniversary of the death of our Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh. I salute the High Council. Praise be to Him who has created us, that we have been honoured with Islam. Our presence will be valued by his path. Every living thing will taste death. What we have done in this world is a provision for the Hereafter. Therefore, to be remembered with good or hate is of great importance to us human beings. So today, I want to talk about a person who's been blessed. Today, the anniversary of our death, with the participation of our president, Mr. State Gardenian, we held a memorial meeting at the head of the tomb with our entire community. I'd like to address you by quoting our President-General's speech from the tomb head of our late Archduke. After 80 years of fighting, on 4 April 1997, I remember our Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh with gratitude and mercy. To express our feelings of gratitude and devotion, to remember his blessed memory with prayers, to read our conquerors into his soul is essential to us. Despite 18 years, our love for him has never diminished, but the fact that our political advancements have always proved him right has made us more convinced and stronger in our strength. Our late Prime Minister is a struggling spirit, a faithful heart, a loving heart for his people, a consciousness loyal to his history, a courage that does not bow down to adversity, a unrelenting and unrelenting will. These rare qualities naturally raised him to one of the most important states and politicians of his time. The surest way to understand it and its works is to interpret its ideas, action and method, the possibilities and conditions of its struggle according to its time. The late Alparslan Turkesh is a man of heart, ideas and action who has been flagging Turkish nationalism at a time when ideas that exclude nationalism and consider it dangerous are popular. The title of Basbug, which our nation crowns in its own eyes, is practically flagged by the love of the nation, the country, and the state. Despite the counter-fighting, Turkish nationalism has spread throughout Asia Minor with it and has managed to find a place in the conscience of Turkish youth. "There is no power to defeat the right idea." Basbug has led the faith and love movement that will bring nationalism together with the nation, leading to the history of Turkish thought, which has been in search of ideas and philosophy for two centuries. With this leadership feature, its influence has also moved out of Turkey, sparking a new resurrection fire for the Turkish world and for all the oppressed nations in the joint cultural community. He was the architect of a political movement, as well as a representative of an unwavering belief in the lifeline and a vast reasoning that saw beyond the horizon. He was willing to risk all kinds of trials for the love of Turkishness, which he truly believed in and was deeply devoted to. An exemplary belief has completely denied Turkey to be a country of "hungry and full slaves." His ability to analyze cold and discreet, deep sensitivity to the values and interests of the Turkish nation has been accepted by everyone. His reconciliationist, peaceful, constructive politics has saved Turkey from crisis many times, and has always been a source of hope for the Turkish nation's brotherhood. Throughout his stormy life, he has been able to stand up and walk straight and alone in the same place and time that everyone else has fallen. The National Movement Party, which began with it, has become a symbol of the primordial, primordial attitude, honesty, historical and cultural glory, and has now emerged as Turkey's only means of salvation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0003par0029	Sure, Mr. Halaçoglu, finish what you said.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0002par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. The seedling that our late Archnephrine planted today has become pitchy, and has won our nation's appreciation and humility at the highest level. His greatest work is the angels. Dedicated to the country and the nation's stay, Turkey's future argument is the prescription for social and economic issues, the guarantee of its unity and its undivisable integrity. "Earthers are the bearers of an honorable flag "who does not accept to be a servant in the realm of mankind nor to use others as servants." "We will certainly take the discipline of the struggle left to us by the late Turk. The games we've been projecting on haven't worked yesterday, and it won't work today. The attacks that targeted our presence failed yesterday, and today it will be the same. The dark campaigns, the bitchy operations, the ugly ambitions, the plots focused on destruction and defeat that meant for us to fall didn't pan out yesterday, and that's what's going to happen today. Our confidence is complete, our excitement is inexplicable. The Turkish nation, which we are honored for its service, will overcome all kinds of harms, overcome all kinds of sufferings, swallow all kinds of minides and destroy them. Turkey's nationalists, whose hearts are beating with the love of their homeland, are more alive than ever, more alert than ever, more determined than ever, and more riveted with faith than ever before. I hereby reminisce once again with mercy and gratitude, our chieftain Alparslan Turkesh, who will never change his place in our hearts. I pray to God that our late leader's tomb is a light and his place is a paradise. God rest his soul. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0004par0046	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0005par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 18th year of his death, I, Alparslan Turkeş, head of the Turkish world, remember him with gratitude and gratitude and longing. I say God rest his soul. I also want to say that we will never forget his service to the Turkish state and the Turkish nation. Alparslan Türkesh's statement to the Turkish youth is very important. You are all Turkish flags. Don't stain the flag, don't desecrate it, don't drop it. How important it is now, once again, from here, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0006par0054	Thank you, Mr. Right. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having them read separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, I would like to submit and request the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to establish a second organised industrial zone between measures that must be taken, while researching the development of the province of Kahramanmarash, more contributions and employment to the country's economy. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Elizipt]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Kastamon]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Lug]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Kayseri]] The economic structure of Kahramanmarash was generally developed from the Republic to the 1980s, based on agriculture, animalism and small crafts. Private sector investments in Kahramanmarash began in 1984. Starting in 1984, the textile industry became an ambitious industry of fabric, weaving, knitting, and painting facilities, as well as steel kitchens, aluminum, shoemaking, and copperry. The export of Heromarash in 2011 was $750 million and its import was $1 billion. Again, the number of exporters took place in 2011 as 197, while Kahramanmarash ranked 19th in the inter-state ranking according to the amount of inter-state exports. In addition, Kahramanmarash is ranked 15th in the cities in terms of imports. A new organised industry must be established to ensure further development and expansion of these sectors, which contribute very important to economics and employment. Today Kahramanmarash has become one of Turkey's number of industrial centres with private sector investments and 650 facilities. Of the first and second 500 major industrial companies, Kahramanmarash is ranked in the 9th place in 81 districts in terms of energy consumed in the industry. The total employment of industrial sectors is about 30,000 people. In Kahramanmarash, industrialization took place on the roads that connect our province to Adana, Gaziantep and Kayseri, in industrial areas that are not under the status of the organised industrial zone. It's almost impossible to find industrial parcels in these areas. In the area where they are, new investors have usually entered between 250m and 1,000m inland. The Kahramanmarash Organised Industrial Region, which was activated in 2003 in Kahramanmarash, has now reached a 96% capacity rate. Therefore, it is imperative that the second organised industrial zone be established in our province and quickly begin infrastructure work. At meetings held by Kahramanmarash Governorate for the second organised industrial district, the best alternative was the location of Tomsuklu, our province of Pazarcık. A joint decision on the launch of administrative and legal procedures has been made and has been made into the report. This area has the size of the Kahramanmarash industry to meet its needs for many years in the future. In this sense, it's very important to think of the future of our province and the vision of the industry and to plan it as an organised industrial zone. Therefore, it would be appropriate to investigate the establishment of a second organised industrial zone in terms of the development of Kahramanmarash, contributing to the country's economy and providing employment, and to establish a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMI Institution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In terms of agricultural production, 15 thermal plants are planned to be established in the Gulf of Alexander in the Mediterranean region of our country's most important agricultural area, including five in Erzin. Although the area has not yet been established as a thermal plant, the pollution of industrial facilities has negative impact on agriculture and the environment. In order to determine and determine the dangers that the thermal plants in the Gulf of Alexander would pose on agriculture and human life in the Mediterranean region, I propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The land is as important to the agricultural sector as it is to industrial and urbanization. In Turkey, first-class efficient agricultural lands for agricultural production are increasingly shifting to areas outside of agriculture, such as housing, industry and public investments. As a matter of fact, because the first-class farmland in Çukurova, Mersin and Tarsus and many other fertile plains and agricultural areas were used for non-advised purposes, it has been sold out to be unusable in agricultural production. In order to prevent the unintended use of first-class farmland, the priority is, "We're building factories today in the growing fields of potatoes yesterday." The mentality must be changed. In addition, in order for environmentally friendly, sustainable agricultural production to be carried out, the right agricultural policies must be implemented primarily in line with the reality of our country. The Gulf of Alexander, which is the most important part of our country in agricultural production, is the Mediterranean region, and is often on the agenda with the recently planned thermal power plants. This plan shows that the agricultural sector has been completely ignored. Because Turkey's Mediterranean Region is the country's most fruit-producing region with about 3.8 million tonnes of fruit produced, and has changed over the years, but about 28 per cent of Turkey's fruit production is happening in this region. The Mediterranean region, on the other hand, is the main hub for the production of under cover fruit and vegetables in our country, and is the main hub for the production of fruit and vegetables on the first tour. The region where the narcissist, one of our country's major exports, is produced most, is the Mediterranean region. However, sustainable agriculture is becoming impossible in a region where thermal plants are established. Thermal plants have a negative effect on the farmland and vegetation found around them by the pollution they've created. In particular, the gas and particles released uncontrollably from the chimneys of thermal plants have been transported far and wide into plants and land. The region is located near Osmaniye Organised Industry Region, and is already at risk with its current situation. Using heavy metal and radioactive water in irrigation will negatively affect human life, especially plants. Despite the lack of thermal power plants in the region, the disintegrations of fruit trees have been detected in the extremities outside the canopy due to the pollution of industrial facilities. They have an expert opinion that decomposition and decomposition were caused by acid rain. The amount of lead was found in the blood and dairy products of the animals raised in villages around the Sob Termic Plant in the ovaries. This strengthens the belief that the amount of lead may be greater than usual in the vegetation, in the soil, or in the water where animals are fed. Given all aspects, the thermal power plants and sustainable agriculture can be considered to be two phenomena that cannot stand side by side. If the current process works as planned, it would be inevitable for Hatay to be completely desertized and severely damaged by agricultural production and even the country's economy in a large area from the coast of Samandag to the coast of Adana, Tarsus and Mersin. On the other hand, the cumulative effect of other thermal plants and other pollutants in Erzin's report on the aborting of the natural gas thermal plant should be taken into account. The thesis is justified by experts. As a result, it is important to establish Parliamentary research commissions in the Mediterranean Region to determine the dangers and measures that will be created in the region, even though the construction of thermal plants that have the potential to destroy agriculture and all these beautys is still in the case of aborting the CED report. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The right to live is the most basic human right. However, recent military deaths, which have been called military suicides, have reached critical proportions. In accordance with the universal human rights, I move by the principle that the right to life under the protection of the law should be opened a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine and determine the reasons for the suspicious military deaths and the state's obligations and the measures to be taken. 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Lug]] The right to live is the most basic human right. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, adopted on December 10, 1948, sixty-four years ago, everyone has the right to live with their right to freedom and security. It's arranged in the form. In the European Convention on Human Rights, "Everyone's right of life is under the protection of the law." It's called. States have a duty to respect human rights. When it comes to the right to live, this obligation shows itself primarily as states do not violate their right to live (not to kill). As a positive obligation to respect, the third party shows itself in the form of taking precautions so that it does not violate its right to live; when it does, it applies to investigations and prosecutions, and sanctions, and recognition of effective legal ways, even if it is a civil servant who violates its rights. In short, everyone has a right to life, freedom and security. Again, everyone's right of life must be protected by the law. Death sentences in Turkey were lifted in 2002, but Turkey's main problem, human rights and democracy, still exist. In the beginning of human rights violations, life rights violations occur. Because of the conflicting environment caused by the unresolved Kurdish problem, over 30,000 people from all ages and nationalities have lost their lives in this war. Again, the recent military suicides, which have been described as military suicides, have reached critical levels. According to a question motion by Malatya MP Veli Agababa on 27 April 2012 by National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz, 934 soldiers have committed suicide in the last decade (2002-2012). The report, published in Cumhuriyet daily May 15, 2012, stated by Minister Yilmaz that 2,221 people have committed suicide in 22 years since 1990, while 1,602 people have lost their lives in a gun accident or a car crash or a snake stinging, lightning strikes, or a fall. 39 of the 42 soldiers reported suicide in the military in 2012 were Kurds, according to MaZLUMDER. This number shows the size of the mandatory military exercise in Turkey and the problems created by the ongoing conflicting environment. It is common to believe that these murders were not investigated enough, even though the young men sent to the army were murdered within military institutions, which should be the safest. THE report states that the cases of Oktay Can, Aydın Dere, Mazlum Karabulut have been dealt with and have been victimised twice by the judicial authorities whose families have gone for justice. The families of these soldiers, who have been proven murdered by reports of state institutions, are now determined to seek justice they cannot obtain from the authorities of the Republic of Turkey. Of the 42 soldiers reported to their families as suicides in various scenarios, all of whom were reported to have committed suicide in the military area, one of whom had committed suicide in the last year, two of whom were Armenians, and 39 others were of Kurdish origin, and the reasons for this should be investigated, even though these cases were considered suicides. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Tolga Islam, who applied to the Human Rights Commission on behalf of the Military Rights Initiative, stated that military rights have received 432 applications from all provinces in one year, resulting in the results of abuse, such as suicide, permanent physical damage and loss of mental health, only 43 suicide cases in 2012, in which the Assembly must demonstrate a stronger will. In terms of universal human rights, the right to live under the protection of the law is very important in terms of the control work of the Parliament's research commission in order to determine the reasons for the forced military deaths and the reasons for the state's failure to meet its obligations and to determine measures to prevent deaths in the military. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Come in, Mr. Sky, you're in the system.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0007par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of the death of the nationalist Movement Party's founder, Alparslan Türkesh, we express our condolences on the loss of Alparslan Türkesh, and on their special day again.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0006par0244	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Saturday/4/2015 (today), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On July 1, 2013 and on July 15,841, attacks against Iraqi Turks and East Turkic Turks have increased and massacred TBM President Rashat Right and his friends in the last days. The motion to open a parliamentary investigation on Saturday/4/2015 (today) has been read in the General Assembly and suggested that its talks be met in today's jointly, in order for the government to take the necessary measures." Just a minute before I call Mr. Right... Mr. Bostanci's in the system, if you'll excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0008par0262	Mr. President, thank you. The late President of the National Movement Party, Alparslan Türkesh, is the 18th year of his death. Once again, I wish him mercy. Nationalism is one of the key lines in the history of modernisation of Turkey; it has been a political and intellectual movement in our intellectual life and in our political life, in the modernisation of society, in the creation of visions of its future. The late Turk was a leader who politically represented nationalism in our recent history and pronounced it in Turkey's union, even at the most difficult times in its direction. Of course, when we look at the politics of Turkey's future, there are different political schools, there are different approaches, there are competitions, conflict, debates, but people are a collective being that has a common memory and a cognitive knowledge of figures from the past, people from the past. In that sense, we have to view them as common values, as common memories, against those who have now played such important roles in history. I wish him to rest in peace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0009par0267	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Slap Congressman Reşat is correct. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0010par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we've made a commitment to the Parliament's research motion, which we gave on 1/7/2013 -- about a year and a half ago -- which, luckily, we're going to do it here as one of the last speeches of the House. Of course, when we submitted the motion, the Turkish world, the Iraqi Turks, we are now facing a more severe situation of the painting on the Turks of East Turkia. I'd also like to say that the attacks on the great Turkish state are going on day by day. At the beginning of my words, the great leader, who we commemorated the 18th anniversary of death, the Archmaid of the Turkish world, Alparslan Turkeş, who is the head of the Turkish world, with mercy, with gratitude, with gratitude, and with longing, I say, "May his soul rest in peace." He's a great man, the great Turkish nation, who's done great service to the Turkish youth, who's done very important tasks, who've done a great deal of good in the growth of youth, of consciousness, and his place is a paradise. In particular, you are all Turkish Flags, not to stain the flag, not to soil it, not to drop it. The word is very important. As of now, I think that's probably the most important thing in the Republic of Turkey. I'm also entrusting our late Prime Minister's January and the Nationalist Movement Party to the Turkish nation. I want to say it again from here, so a very important trust to the Turkish nation was given by our late Prime Minister. Honourable MPs, of course, we have to tell the Iraqi Turks, the Syrian Turks, the Turks, that the attacks against the East Turkic Turks have increased, that the massacres are still being carried out. On June 25, 2013, when I submitted this motion, many of our brothers, Mr. Ali Hashim Mukhtaroglu of the Iraqi Turkmen Front and Vice Governor Ahmet Kabul, who had been subjected to a treacherous attack and lost their lives in the village of Salahattin in the province of Tuzhurmatu, on June 25, 2013. From that day on, heavy attacks and planned destruction continue in front of the free world against the Iraqi Turks. The Turks suffered great losses after Iraq's invasion of the United States and coalition forces. US-backed angsts have attacked the Iraqi Turks everywhere, changing demographic structures in many cities, particularly Kerkuk, and forcing Turkmen to emigrate. In recent years, the Syrian Turks have also been subjected to heavy attacks, and have again been part of the losing class. As a result of the attacks, many of our brothers lost their lives, were injured; they were forced to leave Iraq, Syria. We also see recent attacks on Turks, especially those with jobs and power, are also increasing again. Many of our brothers and sisters from their doctors to their engineers are being kidnapped, ransomed, or killed. Aggressors who are tasked with spilling Turkishmen's blood are slaughtering over massacres. Living bombs in Syria and Iraq, assassins, terrorists, assassins, are constantly spreading death. Turkmen's identity, Turkmen's presence, Turkmen's work, Turkmen's consciousness is the target of bloody ambitions. Turkmen are being forced to migrate, pressures are increasing. In addition, our Turkmen brothers and sisters who live there also receive their share of the attacks on the Turks. In the 21st century, attacks and massacres continue under cruel pressure in East Turkistan. The whole world, especially Europe and America, should have seen and watched violent violence closely, but unfortunately all of this has been put aside. Today, the worst nightmare in the world lives in East Turkistan. In recent days, attacks and massacres have increased in the Uygur region. Tens of thousands of our brothers and sisters are killed by brutal attacks. China is the head of the world where there is no law, no justice, no law. In China neither the judge nor the prosecutor nor the police are doing anything against the persecution of our brothers in East Turkistan. In China, it is not known what the outcome of nearly 30 million Turks is. In prisons, police stations, cruel torture continues. Thousands of Uygur Turks have been transferred to mental hospitals and tens of thousands of people in East Turkistan are being executed without trial. Again, events and persecution in Syria in East Turkistan and Iraq must take place at the top of the world's most important events. In view of all this, Turkey must take care of our brothers. Unfortunately, however, the AKP government cannot say that it has fully claimed our Turkish brothers in Iraq, East Turkistan, Syria, Ahiska, Karabağ. Which means the job isn't right. Prime Minister and government officials have met with the terrorists in Kandil, the villains and his followers in Imran, Barzani. For almost five or six years, Turkishmen have not had serious contact with their representatives, they haven't been heard. The Turkishmen's fate has been abandoned at the mercy of the angers and PKK. So it's not much of a concern to the government or to the other authorities that the Turks are subjected to ethnic cleansing, oppression, and oppression. This is a huge injustice and injustice to the Turkmen. But even though the Turkmen were very patient, they no longer had the power, the ability. Our Turkmen brothers are deliberately driven into isolation, isolated, and shot from their homes. The attacks on Turkishmen leaders in Tuzhurmatu are neither the first nor the last. Kerkok, Baghdad, Lazkiye, Mosul, Telafer, Tuzhurmat, Insecurity, confusion, ambiguity. The Turks are confused, they don't know what to do. In East Turkistan, the Uygur Turks also cry blood. While the government welcomes the PKK, Barzani, Talabani, why does the East Turkia leader not have Rabia Kadir Ma'am? Rabia Kadir is a leader and hero accepted by the world. Despite all kinds of impossibleities around the world, the Turks of East Turkia have a valiant explanation of their rightful cause. Ma'am Rabia Kadir is a person who must be looked after, must be invited to our country and possessed. In Eastern Turkistan, racial discrimination is held by the state's hand. The curfew, mandatory abortions, sterilization policies are genocide. Drug use in the region is encouraged especially on Turkish youth, where the Turkish population is dense. Nuclear trials are being conducted in Turkish dorms, exposing serious health problems that can be passed on by genetics. The Turkish region is being brought in and placed in Chinese with a plan. There are 171 types of minerals and gas sources in the eastern Turkistan region. 30 million Turkish people live heavily under the pressure of 1.5 billion Chinese populations. The Chinese government displays all kinds of cruelty and play to destroy our people. As the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Commission, many applications to visit the region were unfortunately not accepted by the Chinese government. This shows that the situation is even more severe than it seems, and there is an environment that needs immediate attention. Our people are killed, wrongfully executed, arrested, exiled. All of this is in the eyes of the so-called free world, the world's NGOs. Against the persecution of China, the world, especially our government, remains silent and silent. But those people are our brothers. The government, especially the NGOs, should have claimed their every issue; it should carry its righteous desires around the world and produce reactions from communities. However, none of this has ever been done or done very little, has been inadequate. Turkey's security is passed through Cyprus, Kerkuk, Damascus, Ahıska, Karabağ. Here, all of this needs to be investigated and taken into account the necessary measures. The AKP government and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu must defend the issue by discussing the right cases of our Turkmen brothers, not the government of Iraq, but the international institutions. Civil society organizations must take care of the issue both in our country and around the world. The great Turkish state must be in Kerkuk, in Ahiska, in East Turkistan, in Cyprus, in Karabağ, in Shusha, and in the north. As Turks of Turkey, we Turkish nationalists, as Nationalist Movement Party members, stand by our descendants and curse all attacks on the Turks. Tuzhurmatu is Turkish, Kerkuk is Turkish; Turkmen is a flag, is a country, is a love. The Turkish world will always be our love, and no one will be able to change that. We know and follow the atrocities of our brothers and traitors, we are with them as Turkish nationalists, we are with them, we will surely ask them to account for their suffering one day. Great Turkish nation, tremble and return to yourself, we say, keep your country, land, nation, flag, tongue, faith. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Given the reasons I've been telling you upstairs, we've asked for an investigation into the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but it's the end of Parliament. I hereby salute the High Council again. Mr. President, I thank you very much, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0011par0296	Thank you, Mr. Right. It's Kurskkale MP Ramazan Can against you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0012par0299	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. And I say peace be upon him in the 18th year of his death. I also want to thank the National Movement Party and Mr. Reshad True MP for his speech and for offering group advice on the matter. We, the AK PARTI and the government, say that the stay and peace of our Turkmen kinsmen in Iraq are one of Turkey's foreign policy priorities, and Turkey's support for the Turkmen case is always strong. The safety of the Turkmen is a priority for us. Our primary goal in this framework is to fight the threat of the DEA, which has caused major damage to the Turkmen and the Turkmeneli region. The security of our Turkishmen kinsmen is regularly at meetings with the participation of our concerned institutions, and we are taking steps in everything, especially about self-defense needs, and we are expressing them on Iraqi authorities and international platforms. We will continue to provide support for the existence of our Turkish brothers and sisters in Iraq and for their security and prosperity, as it was in the past. Turkey is also closely monitoring debate and improvements on the status of Kerkuk. We believe that the solution to Kerkuk's final status should be based on a compromise that meets the interests and expectations of all Kerkukians, especially our Turkmen brothers. We will not stand by and watch as a result of Kerkuk. We are making the necessary effort to protect the ethnic and religious diversity of Kerkuk, a small model of Iraq. We see Iraqi Turkmen as a bridge of friendship in relations between Iraq and Turkey. Our country, which has always defended Iraq's peace, stability and prosperity, will continue to be the sole garant of Turkmen's presence in this country. Mr. President, valuable MPs, on the other hand, the developments of our descendants living in the Sincan Uygur Autonomous Zone are being carefully and closely monitored by our government. In addition to our historical and cultural ties with our Uygur relatives, the lives of a large number of Uygur-based citizens in our country increase the sensitivity of our public, therefore our government. On the other hand, the Turkish-Chinese relationship dimension of the issue is being taken seriously by our side in terms of the well-being of our Uygur relatives, as it should also be considered that our relations with China will have a direct negative impact on the well-being of the Uygur family. In contact with the Chinese authorities, we also say that we are ready for cooperation at the point of taking every necessary measures to eliminate the reasons for the country's escape. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been established by us as Turkey's trading center for the purpose of raising the life levels of our relatives, improving their prosperity, developing the Sincan region, and continuing efforts to divert our businessmen to this side. Mr. President, dear MPs, as I just said, I personally support the group proposal of the National Movement Party, and I say that I agree with the statements of our Tokat MP, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0013par0308	Thank you, Mr. Can. In favor of the proposal, Alderman Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0014par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the group proposed by the National Movement Party. I salute you all. Maybe it's the last time I talk this semester. First of all, Mr. Mumcu, as Deputy Speaker of Parliament, I would like to thank you on behalf of my own and my group for the tolerance you've shown in this House, for your calm and good governance. Dear MPs, I would like to share with you the information on our visits to our Turkish-American family as Republican People's Party on November 10, 2014, to the Republican People's Party. In recent years, especially in the Middle East geography -- both Syria and Iraq and East Turkistan -- there has been a great deal of suffering, a great deal of suffering against our descendants, especially being systematically assimilated in Iraq, and it seems very clear that they want to be destroyed. When we arrived, Iraqi Turkmen's Front Leader Ershat Salihi showed us clearly both the hospitality of the Turkmen and the distress they face. In his own words, he says that since 2003 -- unfortunately, your government coincides with the period when it came to power -- unfortunately we didn't get enough support from Turkey. In particular, we were destroyed by Saddam and then by a violent organization called ISIS. We were banished during the Saddam period, pressured. In fact, the Kurds were under the same pressure that we were at that time because of the Arabization policy. Unfortunately, we had to leave places like Telafer, Tuzhurmatu, Amirli, where the Turks lived. Since then, Kerkuk was known as Turkmeneli. About half of his population was Turkmen. But after recent ISIS attacks, the Turks migrated here, especially from the places I was just talking about, but the remaining Turkmen population is unfortunately one third -- about 400,000 of the 1,800,000 populations -- and the representation points have been mixed up, unfortunately. Of the 41 MPs in the Turkishmen Assembly, 26 were Kurds, nine were Turkmen. Now, the reason why Mr. Salihi put out his statement, the statement of the representatives there, which, in fact, your heart aches when you see it, is that we have been replaced by both ISIS and the Kurds who run this place during the period by both ISIS and the Kurds, the only reason we're despised is because the state of the Republic of Turkey doesn't care for us, that our descendants don't feel like they're on our side. When we got there, we visited a camp. That camp was a camp of great hardship. A tent city was built on the territory of a Turkmen citizen -- if I'm not mistaken -- by our AFAD and TİKA. That tent town has no electricity, no cleaning, no toilets, no bathrooms. The kids are a mess. I'm not talking about that part. It really breaks hearts. Is that what happens when there's war and there's trouble? These things happen. But the sad part is that we're alone at the point where no one can claim it. They say that the committee of the People's Party of the Republic has given us something to come here, especially with seven MPs, and to come here without safety in this region. Of course, your contributions matter, of course your contributions, but with us, the perception of the opposition of the Republic of Turkey and its power is more important to us. Unfortunately, this perception has not been created by your government so far, and as a day goes by, the pressure continues on the Turkmen living in both Syria and Iraq, and so on and so on. I'll give you an example: 602 of our Turkmen citizens lived in the camp we visited, 40 of them were babies. We began to visit tents, and since we were physicians, most of us were physicians, we tried to reach out during that visit. Most of them don't speak Turkish, they don't speak Turkish, they speak Arabic. So we asked the authorities: "Why do most of these friends speak Arabic?" They said: "There is a ban on speaking Turkish and Turkish in the areas where we lived during the time of Saddam." So we were assimilated to sustain our own existence, and we came to this point using their language. Now, what I'm trying to emphasize to you is that if we don't just say they're our kinsmen and we don't get them alone, we don't get them alone, we don't give them the feeling that we're with them in international negotiations, we're with them at the representation point of the administration, then the Turkmen won't have a chance to exist in that area. I expect government officials from now on to help us in Iraq, Syria, and other countries who live and live by the Turkishmen, not by the so-called means, but by actually owning them, feel their presence. I'd like to say that we support the group proposal from the National Party for Action, and I'd like to give you all a lot of respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0015par0326	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Against Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0016par0329	Mr. President, before I begin speaking, I congratulate Mr. President on his kindness, for having acted equally in the framework of all political parties within the framework of these four years, in the framework of democratic measures. I'd like to say that I'd like to see him in that position next semester. I'd like to express my opinion on the nationalist Movement Party's motion to investigate the attacks on the Iraqi Turks and the Turks of East Turkia. Indeed, we have a mindset that looks at all peoples with an equal view of all different beliefs. Therefore, it is not possible for us to accept the attacks on both Turkmen in Iraq and Turkmen in East Turkistan, but I would like to say that we condemn them first. You know as well as I do the recent developments in Iraq. Especially the Turks, the Assyrians, the Ezidis, the Shii Turkmen who live there, in fact, there is a neo-semination in front of the whole world, which is being removed from their habitats, from their habitats, from their habitats. About 200,000 Assyrians-Süryani had to leave the Ninova region after ISIS attacks, but there was no sound from Turkey in that sense. You also know what happened to the Ezidis, about 600,000 of our Ezidi people have been removed from their regions, so many women, girls, children are now in the hands of ISIS, but unfortunately, our world, the United Nations, the European Union, has not shown the necessary sensitivity in this sense. We actually hold global forces and the United Nations responsible for what happened in Iraq. If these global forces hadn't started these power of attorney wars in order to redesign the Middle East, the Turks there today, the Assyrian-Suryanians, the Crushers, and other different religious groups there might not have experienced these disasters right now. Therefore, I put the greatest responsibility on these. There's an organization called the United Nations today. I don't understand what this mission is. If the United Nations really wants to play its true role, I believe it should be rebuilt. Of course, it is important for us to address these problems today from the House, but in fact, we see that this does not solve our problems in a concrete way. Thus, states must now discuss the functions of the United Nations. Today, if the Turks in Iraq are not protected in Telafer, in Tuzhurmatu, in Kerkuk, in Kerkuk, in Kerkuk, at the same time, as the Assyrian Süryans, the Ezids, in this sense, the people who can no longer defend themselves must be protected by the United Nations Security Council. In this sense, we believe that the United Nations should not only intervene in certain areas at the request of the United States, but in reality, by all NGOs and world parliaments, it is now necessary for the United Nations to take on a new job and a new responsibility, especially for the protection of different peoples, different beliefs, ethnic groups. As you may have heard recently, in Haseke, Syria, the ISIS attacks have led to the abduction of nearly 250, Asuri-Suryani, women, girls, children. The ISIL is still in the hands of the DAİSİSK, but there was no sound from Turkey again. Here, Turkey once accepted itself as the heir to the Ottoman Empire. Most of the people here are actually from Hakari, Şırnak, Mardin. At different times, people from Turkey have actually settled there, avoiding different political pressures, massacres. We, the People's Democratic Party, are a party that believes in the brotherhood of Kurds, Assyria-Suryans, Ezids, Shii Türkmen, all peoples, and therefore, at the point of the protection of the Turks, the Assyrians, the tyrants, and all the differences living there, at the point of the protection of different beliefs, Turkey has recently called on the United Nations for the protection of all these peoples if it truly values human rights. In fact, in my opinion, Turkey should have done it, but today Turkey has not yet made a condemning statement in that sense. We also criticize Turkey's policies and find them inadequate. Therefore, I believe that great duties and responsibilities have fallen to Turkey at the point of the return of all the people who live in Iraq, their culture, their mother tongue, especially those who are physically protected, and those who have escaped, those who have had to flee, their home homes, their villages, their towns, their cities, their cities. I also address all political parties here, not only the Turkmen -- of course, because we believe in the brotherhood of the people -- but there, the Asuri-Suryans, the Ezidis, the Shii Turkmen, the Arabs, all the different ethnic and religious groups -- must express their rights. I believe that Turkey, as a state, should take on tasks and responsibilities, not just theoretically condemning them. Thus, there is only one way to protect all differences in Iraq, Turkmen and all other groups, which is to give these different ethnic groups the recognition of autonomy, autonomy, under the guarantee of the United Nations. Furthermore, concrete examples show that if other, different peoples are left to their initiative, they will always face such massacres. And in that sense, I want to express our sensitivity. We say again: "Glory be to the brotherhood of the peoples." And we feel that it is no longer important to defend our rights alone in the light of empathy. The important thing is that the righteous conduct is to condemn the attacks on different beliefs, on different ethnic groups, and at the point of preventing them, the necessary sensitivity as states, both as Parliament and as political parties. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute you all again with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit01spe0017par0337	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0017par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 91st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume our talks with the 5th ranking law on Health and Safety and Safety Act and the Constitutional Law Charter and the Report on Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and the President of the Turkish National Assembly and Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. The commission and the government are in place. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Charter, the second article in the last draft of the bill, which was considered the basic law, was adopted in the second chapter. Now, there are four motions for the new clause, and I'm going to read the first one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Bill 687 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Hakan Davutoğlu Ramazan Can Osman Can Love Look The following temporary clause is added to the Law 58 - 5510. INTERVIEWED by the first joke of Article 65-4 (a) and (b) to the insured and rights holders; A) is tied before 2015 and increased income and monthly incomes by the second joke of Article 55 of the Law during the January 2015 payment period according to the second article of Article 55 of the Law starting in July 2015. The increased income and monthly incomes are also increased by the amount required to be paid on the basis of the file; in July 2015, the payment period costs $1,000 (due) and the amount below is worth $100, and the amount that exceeds £1,000 is also increased by the amount that will not exceed $1,100. B) According to Articles 27th, 29th, 33rd and temporary 2nd, of disability, old age or death months to be tied in 2015, the monthly sums are paid by increase (a) as specified in January 2015. C) Enters incomes earned from business accidents and occupational health insurance into the main daily earnings account; 1) The last calendar month will be linked to the first half of 2015, according to the second joke of Article 55 of the Law in January and July 2015, and the second sentence of the first joke (a). 2) The last calendar month will be linked to the second half of 2015, and according to the second joke of Article 55 in July 2015 and the second sentence of the first joke (a), It's paid by increase. d) The amount of increase in the second sentence (a) of the first joke; 1) For those who are constantly taking unemployment benefits from job accidents and occupational health care insurance, the constant level of inability to work is based on income commitment, 2) As far as the rights holders of death files are concerned, 3) Under social security contracts with foreign countries, partial income or monthly incomes, according to the rate of the number of days paid in accordance with our country's legislation, compared to the total premiums paid on the day-to-day basis according to the social security agreement, It's applied. E) In addition to Article 55 in the July 2015 payment period, income and monthly income increased in the same way mentioned in the first joke (a), (b) and (c)bents. Does the commission participate in the motion with a majority of 14 people? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the Commission has joined the motion with its majority, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0018par0032	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect. The basic logic of this provision is to offer a $100 contribution to pensioners, including $1,000 and $1,000. I say Sadaka, I don't say it myself, the pensioners say it. We've asked for a pension about pensioners -- as we've expressed here and before in various times in the Commission -- to be paid to pensioners who will not be below the age of starvation. This will be very clear in the Republican People's Party's next election declaration. We've already talked to retired unions, pensions, pensions, all pension structures, and we've got that kind of understanding. Hence, under this agreement, we cannot possibly view an arrangement that will be expressed here as already positive. Again, with pensioners, my dear friends, there are many problems. It's about this arrangement, I know, mostly just that the Commission won't agree with our proposals again to our demands on this. It's about our old friends in retirement. Look, there have been many pardons, many privileges, made here, yesterday and the day before. Billions of dollars before this were pardoned, ignored for many arrangements, but under it, at the sum of one-tenth, all the motions we make to solve the problem of pensioners in the long term -- not the immediate concern of 5 million people -- but 5 million people in the long term -- are being rejected. Thus, most of our retired friends have completed 9,000 working days; women have completed 7,200 working days; they are 50 years old, 55 years old; they expect age, they lack retirement rights. Most of the motions we bring to correct them are rejected, most of them are ignored. We're calling it "O friends can't get a job." We're telling the minister over and over again. It's hard for a 50-year-old to get a job, it's hard for a 55-year-old to get a job. Come on, let's fix this; there's a brake here. But when we look at it for two days, billions of dollars and lots of resources can be transferred elsewhere. What do we want? Our demand is that these people can't benefit from health care even though they're entitled to retirement. Come on, at least the pensioners paid a bonus in this country for 9,000 days, paid a bonus of 7,000 days, paid a bonus of 8,000 days. So three months, four months of premiums, they take advantage of health care in this country, but now that they can't retire, they can't work, they can't use health care because they're old. Let's figure this out. We're saying no, we're not. As for the pensioner, no, no, no, but the Prime Minister, with a hundred lira contribution for show, with hurrahs and hurrahs. A perception management is being created before the election, as if something big is being done. I accept the AKP's success in this, and the AKP is running the perception management very well, and I admit it here. But as if he's doing a very good thing, the press pumps it, and good news for the pensioners! The pensioners will receive these rights, and they will receive these rights. They bring good news, but it brings disappointment to the pensioners. The future of pensioners is blackened, played with the honor of pensioners. So, given the kind of arrangement that we're offering... look, the pensioners are in front of Congress today, and we'll do much better things in case their problem is solved. Since we've been working here for the last days of these four years -- thanks to all the friends who have worked -- come, not with such palliative measures, not with temporary dressings, but with a permanent, pensioner's hope, and a contribution to reliving the pensioners' future, I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0019par0038	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0020par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party had these arrangements, a soda ad that had been shown on television for years, and it reminded me of it, saying: "The image is nothing, thirst is everything." Now, this is an image study that doesn't quench thirst. He's going to give you 100 lira, and there's actually a trick, dear friends, so he's not giving it exactly as he says. If the substance is carefully examined, it says: ▪ It will come and its monthly months will be increased according to the 55th article (2). • So, six months of inflation will be increased, and under 1,000 lira will be given 100 lira, and between $1,000 and $1.100 will be completed. I mean, the government's been getting used to it for years now, and he thinks he's too alert, and he thinks he's gonna fool the pensioner. Why is this raise coming into practice this month? Why do you have to pay less for retirement? Why are you waiting for July? Why are you pretending? When you do something, swallow it in your retirement. Since you said 100 lira increase, if you're sincere, you'll put it into practice this month. I'd like to bring that to your attention here, dear friends. We'll have our motion in a moment. In a real sense, if we want the pensioner to relax, and we want the pensioner to digest these arrangements, we need to bring them in with a better arrangement. According to the minimum income index results of February 2015, which Turkey's KAMU-SEN Research Development Centre received from Turkey's Statistical Agency, the poverty limit of the only person working according to the state's official figures is $2.061. The minimum income of a family of four is $4,183. The hunger limit of the only working person is $1.593. The average cost of food and housing in a family of four in Turkey is $1,645, and the family's monthly spending is $1,017. Now, dear friends, when we consider these issues, it's not just doing one thing, it's doing one thing, but in the effort to appear to be doing one thing, as long as there's propaganda material for the election. These numbers are extremely inadequate, they need to be upgraded. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0021par0048	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0022par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of our party, I salute you all. The government has also been gracious to the new substance abuse here, which means that the pensioners under 1,000 euros have an increase of 100 euros and over 1,000 euros in areas that are not worth 1,100 euros. Since yesterday, we've been talking about pensioners' problems here, and we're saying something clear: we're putting the poverty limit and the poverty limit in this country in front of all the lawmakers, and we're telling them that they need to do a conscientious accounting in their own way. In one country, if the hunger limit exceeds 1,400 TL, the poverty limit exceeds 4,000 TL. When preparing such proposals, at least such a palatative, non-resolved proposals can be presented with a more constructive proposal by combining with the opposition. But unfortunately, the government -- as I said yesterday -- is looking for ways to trick pensioners before the election with a finger of honey. That's a shame, first of all. Do not solve any of the pensioners' problems for 13 years, condemn the pensioners to living below poverty, hunger, and in your four-year power, give a very bad test on this matter, and at the end of four years, bring a 100-dollar raise on the last day of the House to the General Assembly as a blessing. We can't possibly accept that, guys. So, of course, we won't object because there's been an increase, but coming here with a suggestion like this is an insult to our pensioners, above all. Look, I'll tell you in a language that everyone understands: with this raise, you make an arrangement every day to raise two bagels. I mean, we're talking about a raise, two more bagels per day on the pensioner's table. It's a raise to get 2 kilos more meat a month. Is it possible for this to solve pensioners' problems, friends? So, if you have such intentions, how can we make this a different, more results-taking situation in either the Commission or the General Assembly stage? Y'all should have argued, partnered. The current problems of pensioners are a mountain, and we're at the end of the line. You know, why didn't the government come up here today and do all these things? It happened for thirteen years. There's no point in saying it. On the last day of the House, the word is over. So, from now on, the word is in the public, the pensioners have it, the workers have it, the workers have it, and the workers, the pensioners, the workers, will show their appreciation for it on June 7th. But the heart would want to solve the problems of at least some of the socialities that could not retire in the process. There were two important groups here. In fact, Mr. Secretary said that for those of you who have completed this age and have not completed the number of days of bonuses, you can take a step forward in our talks during the term. At times, we shared this news with the public. But, unfortunately, where we come from, we're going to shut down this House without solving this problem. The other problem is those who can't retire because of age. So, here, of course, there was an arrangement with a law that was passed in '99. This arrangement, described by the public as retirement in the tomb, also victimizes many. There's a huge, huge population that can't fill the prim days and retire because of age. Why are we saying all this? You know, we don't expect a solution from now on, it's not going to happen on the last day of the House anyway. But even though we've been talking about these problems for the past four years, since you haven't proposed any solutions here, as a government, on the last day, we report you to the People's General Assembly, to the employees, to the pensioners. And on June 8th, we're all going to talk here again about how these complaints were appreciated. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0023par0061	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0024par0065	Mr. President, we are now discussing the matter of the Prime Minister's 100 lira commitment to pensioners. Let me tell you right now, Mr. Prime Minister didn't tell the pensioners the truth. The Prime Minister says that 60 per cent of the pensioners will benefit from it. The Prime Minister didn't tell the pensioners the truth. The total number of pensioners in Turkey is 10 million 920. The employee pensioner's 6.5 million, BUG-KUR pensioners are 2,452 thousand, and the pensioner's pensioner's 1 million 958. I'll go back to that number. What does the Prime Minister say? We'll pay 100 Turkish lira for every pensioner who receives less than 1.000 lira. We will also complete the pension of pensioners from 1,000 to 1,100 Turkish liras. Dear lawmakers, pensions increase in January and July. It says here: I give you $100, but -- or I complete your salary for $1,100 -- but I'm not going to give you that increase in inflation in July. Let's know this once, he takes it back. He gives with one hand, and with the other, he takes back part of the increase. When's he gonna give it to you? He'll give it to me in July, but he won't give it to me now. Why July? Mr. Prime Minister means to say to the pensioner, vote for our party in this election, and I'll give you 100 lira in July. What kind of politics is that, dear friends? Republican People's Party, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has promised pension bonuses for pensioners on religious holidays, Ramadan Day, and the Festival of Sacrifice. Davutoglu panicked, trying to do something with panic, trying to imitate us; he can't, can't, can't, can't, can't come after us, can't catch up with our projects, can't. One salary bonus on a religious holiday... What does Davutoglu say: I'll give you 100 lira, I'll give you it in July, but I won't give you the pension increase in July.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0025par0069	He won't be himself in July, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0024par0070	Two: Is he really paying 100 lira? No, guys, he's not. Now, look, the pensioners add up to 10 million 920,000. What did he say, Prime Minister? 60 per cent of the pensioners will benefit from it. • So, 6 million 522,000 pensioners say they will benefit from it. Now, the minimum S.S.K. pension is $1.047. If there is a normal 3 percent increase in July, the increase in inflation will be 1,047 liras. What's he saying, Mr. Davutoglu? I will complete it for $1,100, which is 22 liras. I mean, once again, the increase of Mr. Davutoglu to a pensioner of 6.5 million is 22 liras. That's going to be $2 in pensions, $3 in pensions. Davutoglu says: "You've taken £2 -- labour pensioner -- have a good day's work. You're not taking advantage of a pensioner. That leaves 2 million 452 thousand BUG-KUR pensioners, who will give them 100 lira, won't give them away, unknown. Dear lawmakers, in the end, 60 percent of the pensioners will benefit from it. The claim is a huge lie, a huge balloon. Davutoglu must apologize to the pensioners. Dear lawmakers, this motion is unrealistic, it does not reflect the truth. The $22 raise, the $2 raise, the $3 raise, Davutoglu presents the pensioner as a harbinger and says that as an election investment. And that's sad, you give me the vote, you get my 22 lira raise. Our pensioner knows what to do. Our pensioner will teach you a lesson on June 7th. We repeat the promise of a salary bonus to all our pensioners at Ramadan's Day, at the Feast of Sacrifice, and we give it to them, and I bid them well.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0026par0076	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0027par0080	Mr. President, I've requested a statement based on 60. Thank you. Since yesterday, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's commitment to pensioners has been under consideration, which is not true. There is a government that has been successful for thirteen years, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's presidency is five years. We wished it would be inspiring for us, and a wise power tries to inspire everyone, and he does it himself, but Mr. Kilicdaroglu can't inspire us because...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0028par0083	It's a way for you to fake it.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0027par0084	...Mr. Kilicdaroglu had a promise to unemployed families during the nomination of İstanbul Mayor, that there would be around $600. CHP's valued officials know that such practices are assessed on the basis of fairness and equality, and if you make such a commitment in one place, a promise like that should be made to all your municipalities. Unfortunately, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who lost his position as mayor of Istanbul, did not make similar arrangements where they won the municipality, so he failed to keep his promise. If only it were inspiring, we wouldn't be offended by it, we wouldn't be bothered by it, but unfortunately it isn't. I've been promised this, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0029par0086	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0030par0089	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Bostancı tried to defend himself in a very embarrassing way, and he didn't know what to say, but he tried to take power from them by going to the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's term. Now, come to the motion, Mr. Botanci. The motion includes an increase in $22 to SEC pensioners, which constitutes a population of 6.5 million. They won't give a July raise to the person who gets this 22 lira raise. Why are you giving me this 22 lira raise, why are you making a move? You have taken action on the promise of a salary bonus on the religious holidays of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's pension. Look, we also promised to reset the social security premium, Mr. Kilicdaroglu made this promise, and you rushed here in a panic, so let's reduce Bari from 15 percent to 10 percent. The imitation can never be as successful as it really is. You'll follow us more often. You'll have to follow us as we announce many of our projects towards the election era. Unfortunately, since Parliament will be closed, you will not be able to make a motion on those matters. That's what you're going to tell people, we're going to tell people, people are going to bury you in the trunk on June 7th. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0031par0095	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. There's a motion on the new item, I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (a) of Article 58, which has been added to the current bill of law and is considered a new article, should be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Murat Başesgioğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Cemalettin Simsek (a) and (b) to the insured and rights holders of the first joke (a) and (b) A) As part of Article 55 of this Law, the monthly commitment to the insured cannot be less than one-and-a-half times the minimum gross fee in any way. Months are increased by the value of the most fundamental year-old consumer prices announced by Turkey's Statistical Agency in December of each year by the end of the year by adding the total number (1) to the total number of non-native product development rates, with the total rate of change in the general index, with constant prices." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0032par0111	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0033par0112	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0031par0113	I'm reading the reason: [[Editor-in-Chief Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White has begun reading the reason]] The government provides an increase of $100 to pensioners whose salary is less than $1,000. For those with over $1,000 a salary, it's 1. There is a rising rate that does not exceed 100 TL. With our proposal, the minimum pension has been raised to $1,800, a half times the gross minimum wage, and the entire share of the wealth in pension increases has been intended to be included. Turkey's Public-Sen Research Development Centre has set up 2015..... with prices from Turkey's Statistical Agency.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0034par0119	Mr. President, we said it was necessary, but let's read it a little more clearly. I mean, we don't talk, but we don't want it to be avoided. [[Clerk Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White continues to read the reason]] According to the minimum income index of February, the poverty limit of the only working person is $2.061. The minimum living limit for a family of four is $4,183. The hunger limit of the only working person is $1.593. The average cost of food and housing for a family of four in Turkey is $1,645. The family's monthly cost of food is $1.017. According to the latest information released by Social Security Agency in November 2014, our country receives 10 million 875,000 pensioners, widows and orphans, and incomes. People who retire after a long working life dream of living the rest of their life peacefully, happily, and humanly, without worrying about the future. However, in our country, our pensioners are not happy. Retired people lead a desperate life from the future. According to the 2012 Turkish pension profile survey, 84 per cent of pensioners said their income was insufficient. The percentage of pensioners who need other people for a living is 30%. 28 per cent of pensions are divided into one-quarters of their salary, 38 per cent from half their salary, 20 per cent from three-quarters of their salary, 14 per cent from their food spending. 28% of pensioners live in slums, 27% are tenants. 56% of pensioners are able to heat their homes with just a stove. The majority of pensioners receive months below the hunger limit. As of the end of 2014, the lowest BUG-KUR agricultural pensioner receives $611, the lowest SEC pensioner receives 750 lira, and the pensioner receives 1,298 lira. These pensions are far below the means for pensioners to participate in an honorable life and social life. In determining pension levels for pensioners, the criteria for hunger and poverty must be applied on the basis of a monthly basis. The Law on Social Insurance No. 506 dated 17/7/1964 on the basis of the employee's salary coefficient from 1978 to 1999. As the change in 1999 calculated pensions, the insurance was based on the fact that each calendar year's primary earnings were increased by the increase in the TFE index compared to December of each year and by increasing the rate of growth of external domestic product at fixed prices. With this system, the monthly earnings of the insured have been updated to the day that each year's annual increase in TÜFE index, followed by the year's income, and that the GDP will be increased separately by the rate of development at fixed GDPs. So both the total inflation rate and the growth rate were reflected in the benefits of the insured. However, the AKP has reduced its welfare share of pensions from 100 per cent to 30 per cent by Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, dated 31/5/2006. Thus, according to Social Security and General Health Insurance Act 5510, the monthly earnings of the insurance holder in the past years have been increased by up to 30 per cent of the rate of GDP at fixed domestic prices, using the update coefficient, with the increase in TFE index per year following the year's income. So the average monthly salary is reflected in the total TÜFE increase and 30 per cent of the rate of growth.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0035par0126	I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't agree... So matter has been accepted and committed. We'll continue negotiations on the existing clauses of the proposal so as not to cause any confusion. Later, in writing of the law, the numbers of the substances will be created in sequence. Now, again, there are two motions for a new substance violation, both of which are the same thing, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Bill 687 rows. Bekir Bozdağ Ahmet Aydın Koksal Toptan Yilmaz Tunç Ercan Candan Yusuf Başer "MEDDE 59 - 31/5/2006 and the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 added the following temporary clause. "Despite its own insurance policy, all debts related to the premiums and premiums are abandoned and are subject to the rights due to the death date of 66 - 10/6/2003 (due to 13/5/2014) and the accident of coal and lignite mines in the underground affairs, due to their personal insurance premiums, and are subject to the rights on the day of death without the search for insurance. The lack of bonuses for the monthly connected like this will be paid by the Finance Ministry. It is based on the laws of the law, which are in effect in the date of the death of the insured, in computation of income and pensions, and in the division of rights to the rightful owners. As part of the first joke, if the insurance holder dies before the beginning of October 2008 and has a growing share of the right-of-occupancy spouse and children, the parents will receive income and income from the property of Law 506, without asking their parents for the conditions of the first clause of Article 34 (d) of the law (d) which has been stated in me for any amount of income and income less than the net amount of the minimum salary and income earned from other children, and the conditions for the death of the mother and/or monthly accession of the child, regardless of the income and the conditions of the parents. As part of this clause, the income and monthly incomes of the rightful owners who have made a written request are initiated during the period following the date when this item is in effect, and there is no repayment for the tied incomes and the monthlys. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are jointly identified by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury." The signatures of the other motion are: İzzet Cetin Ali İhsan İkturk Süleyman Çelebi Aytüğ Atı Mehmet Haberal Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Does the Commission agree with the majority of these two proposals? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the Commission has agreed to this motion, which is the same as the majority, I will open a discussion on the motion as a new clause. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the groups. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I see a very important arrangement and this arrangement that the Commission has attended as a historic turning point. It was the request of the People's Party -- from the day it came to the Commission and from today's stage -- that all other opposition parties and ruling parties contributed to this demand -- and I make it clear here -- that the rights for those who died in Ermenek and Soma have already been applied on the basis of 2003, of course, on the basis of this offer to all of our citizens who died in the mine. This positive point is thus the end of an injustice. Because women from Zonguldak had come to the Budget Commission. They said: "Why do you deprive us of this right, for those who died in Edirne, for those who died in Isala, for those who died in other provinces? Now, a mistake has been corrected, and I really appreciate the correction of this mistake, but here, from our point of view, from the Republican People's Party's Party's point of view, I don't pronounce the red line too much, but it's the ones we don't have to have. I really want to thank you for coming back from this mistake, for fixing this mistake. We also know how to thank the Minister for his hard work. Madam Secretary, we'll know that too, don't worry. Criticize, applaud what you're good at. We know how to clap when you're working, and we'll criticize what you're missing. In that sense...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0037par0158	And to AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0159	What do you say, sir, I'd like to have your full voice.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0037par0160	You should also thank the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0161	I didn't say "AK PARTY" to the members of the Commission, not "AK PARTY" to those who contributed to it. I mean, other injustices, too.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0038par0162	They'll contribute by raising their hand.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0163	They're gonna contribute, okay. I mean, I thank everyone who contributes, but I don't say AK PARTY in private. Especially the opposition parties.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0039par0164	It's not forbidden...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0040par0165	Mr. Ahmet's taken, taken, gone, taken a bit!
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0166	Sir?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0040par0167	Mr. Ahmet's leaving, he's taken some!
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0168	You're against it, aren't you?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0041par0169	So he's not here.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0170	So what I'm saying is that I was actually in the middle of a good evaluation here, and you're doing everything you can to destroy it. I mean, I'm hoping you'll end up in the art of talking anyway. I don't know if you're gonna be next semester or not, but...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0042par0171	I won't, I won't.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0043par0172	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0036par0173	Third period? You're a goner, and you got another chance to say something while I was talking. That's why I'm saying thank you once again to all my friends who've gone through the motions. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0044par0177	We're applauding too.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0045par0178	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0046par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. There's a saying, "Someone eats, someone looks, and the apocalypse rips off." Once we make the arrangement, we must first ensure equality, fairness, and implementation unity. I mean, the power's been so hard on him for years, he's been dragging his feet, he's finally got to get to the point we call it. In May, after the Soma mining accident in June, we've all seen how much the Zonguldish families were screaming. Thus, it is necessary for citizens and those who will carry out an arrangement to include those who will benefit from these rights. With a clause added last night, here's Soma Asş, who was in the Savings Trust Insurance Fund, was arranged to pay senior compensation to the mine workers who had been fired from their finances and their money blocked, and we signed it, even though we had a more appropriate proposal for a settlement. But again, the practice union, this equality, justice was not achieved again. Why? Because Soma Charcoals was somehow resolved to pay the severance pay for the workers who were fired from the company, but similarly, we were unable to solve the problems of the workers who were fired from the Mining Company and were not paid. If our motion had been accepted, the issue of severance pay for workers who had been thrown out of both this and other companies from the Turkish Coal Company would have been solved. But this time warn us that the workers who have been fired from Mining will also want our rights. We will all hear their cries together. This time we'll make an effort for him. Again, six months, maybe a year's waste of time. Actually, there's no need for any of this. Why is this happening? Dear friends, from the government's unscheduled, unscheduled work. He can't think broadly, broadly perspectived. So the government has no orchestration, no policy, but let me save the moment. Or after the screaming has increased to the end, which means that the arrangement that was made after it was too late doesn't really mean much. Therefore, I would like to contribute significantly to the arrangement, but I would also like to express that we find it lacking. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0047par0189	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0048par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. If there is a positive arrangement, of course, it is incumbent on all of us to contribute to that positive arrangement and to thank those who contribute to it. I wish, you know, during the entire legislature, that we could work here with the opposition, with some arrangements that could be positive, that might not solve all the problems. Especially in the last two months, when the internal security package was being discussed, I think the paintings here would be a disgrace to the history of Congress. At least it's important to associate with such partial positive provisions when closing. The arrangement here is particularly about the rights to those who have lost their lives in Soma and Ermenek, and to those who work in underground businesses in other places, for those who have lost their lives. It's about the abandonment of any debt related to Prime and the monthly commitment, no strings attached. In fact, the original arrangements for Soma and Ermenek have been made there, and we have stated from this platform that this must be done. When you didn't do that, we noticed that you would be taking matters into your own hands against the principle of equality of the need to be a social state and creating new problems. Here, a few months later, you just brought this back in a bag. I mean, a wrong turn is, of course, a positive one, you have to look at it that way. Sure, these underground jobs are high-risk. We've seen this especially from the disasters and the massacres. I wish instead of looking for solutions in these kinds of regulations -- instead of looking for solutions in the bag, we could have handled these business accidents in a very serious way here, the preventive measures, the inadequacies of control -- which, you know, in Soma, Ermenek, recently after the Ministry's inspectors had inspected, there had been disasters, and we had made some arrangements that would have completely closed the gaps that were available to them. Again, if we could eliminate the situation of those who are responsible for these massacres in the absence of punishment. I mean, we didn't do that. It's about these, okay, some partial things have been done, but the problem areas are right in front of us. There's death on the outside, there's accidents. It's never been accepted by miners or by anyone with a conscience. Or they died without suffering, they died well. It means that the miners are destined for such events. We haven't discussed all of this in a very detailed way, in a neat collective legal arrangement, but at least we're freeing subterranean workers, miners, who have lost their lives, who have been killed, from this material. It's important to leave bonus debts and connect monthly, to pay these payments to the Finance Ministry, and the Finance Ministry should take action for exactly this kind of thing, so that the Finance Ministry should donate funds to a lot of ridiculous pens, and if the Constitution has the principle of being a social state, it should sign such regulations. And I would like to thank both the Minister and all the groups who contributed on behalf of our party.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0049par0199	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0050par0203	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Last week we solved the property issue of our Zonguldak. Today and on the last day, hopefully, we'll make certain opportunities for the martyrs in this General Assembly. After this disaster in Soma (Soma) and Ermenek (Ermenek), Zonguldak had to be given the same rights to the relatives of the mine martyrs in Zonguldak, and all of Turkey. It was an injustice. I thank all of our deputies for that. We hope to give this news to our Zonguldak today. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to thank our Commission, our Commissioners, the General Assembly, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0051par0208	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept, those who do not accept, a new substance has been approved and a new one has been committed. There's one more substance requirement; I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 59 of the Law shall be adopted in accordance with the Article 687 of Business Health and Safety Act and by some Laws and Laws. Mehmed Şeker Süleyman Çelebi The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 60 - 5510. THE male, who was insured prior to the age and death insurance, who had been reported for 9,000 days of disability, old age and death insurance, and those who had been reported for 7200 days of disability, old age and death insurance, will be used for six months, regardless of the provisions in Article 506 under Article 81 of the Law, as long as they apply to the institution within the period of its application. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? I'm afraid we don't have the absolute majority, Mr. President. Since the commission failed to participate in the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. Now, we've reached Article 58, Mr. Lawmakers. There are four motions on Article 58. Two of these four motions are the same thing, the other two are the same thing; I'm going to process them separately as two proposals. Now, I'm having two of the motions read in the same context. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 58 of the current 687 Orders Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special The first clause of Article 98 of Highways No. 2918, dated 58-13/10/1983, added the following sentence "in accordance with the "repayment and basis of health care for those who are considered general health insurance," following the declaration "no matter if the accident has social security." "However, the Social Security Agency determines additional health care services for those who are considered general health insurance in this area, and determines a different unit price for prosthetics and orthesis. This health care is not included in the exception of health care services in the application notification." The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Haydar Akar Ali İhsan İkturk Now, both of the motions I'm going to read are the same thing, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 58 of the current law bill 687 rows from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Alim İlk Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu You've brought Lightning Ali Oz Ali Halaman Does the Commission agree with the motions of the same nature as the last time I read them? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0052par0255	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0051par0256	I'm reading the reason: The bill lacks regulations that are expected in public and will compensate for the loss of our citizens. A few minor improvements ahead of the upcoming 25th-century parliamentary elections should be included in the draft text of problems that have been pending for years, instead of the arrangements that the EC PARTY has made aimed at providing political interests. It would be in the best interest of the public and the nation to remove the matter from the draft text.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0053par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0051par0260	I'm reading the other reason:
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0053par0261	Sir, the reason is to be read in the same way. The reason is that he writes, our speaker reads, "AK PARTY. " He needs to read what it says, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0054par0263	But his name is AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0055par0264	Yeah, of course he should read it like that. Please be careful.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0056par0265	Legally AK PARTY.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0055par0266	Idris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends' motion, I read the reason: Reason: The provisions limiting health rights are against the principle of the social state. A change has been intended to address the problems that will arise. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature as the one I've made you read their reasons: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm reading two other motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 58 of the current 687 Orders Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The first clause of Article 98 of Highways No. 2918, dated 58-13/10/1983, added the following sentence "in accordance with the "repayment and basis of health care for those who are considered general health insurance," following the declaration "no matter if the accident has social security." "However, the Social Security Agency determines additional health care services for those who are considered general health insurance in this area, and determines a different unit price for prosthetics and orthesis. This health care is not included in the exception of health care services in the application notification." The signatures of the other motion are: The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0057par0280	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0055par0281	Mehmed Naci Bostancı and his friends' motion to read the reason: It is clear how to determine the health care costs and scope offered to those involved due to traffic accidents. I'm reading the reason for the motion of the Moonbeater and his friends: In the current arrangement, the health costs of the person who was in a car accident are being met by the SGK without any restrictions, while the motion has been made to do so according to the procedures and foundations set out for the GSS. Therefore, the rights of citizens will be restricted and victimized in many matters from prosthetics to their medications. The clause has been edited under the principle that any restrictions on health care will remove us from the understanding of the social state. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature as the one I used to make them read: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 58 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 59, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 59 of the current law bill 687, it is "to ratify the standards and competencies of the profession." We propose and propose that it be changed to "the approval of business standards and competencies." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0058par0299	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0055par0300	I'm reading the reason: A change is intended to make the text of matter more clear. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 59th article has been accepted. There's a motion on the 60th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "downside" in Article 60 of the current law bill 687 shall be changed to "understated." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0059par0315	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit02spe0055par0316	I'm having him read his motive: A change is intended to make the text of matter more clear. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 60th article has been accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0055par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 91% Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 687. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the third section interviews. The third chapter includes the 61 to 89th article, including the temporary article 1. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will address the third chapter on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0060par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As I begin my speech, my dear President, I congratulate you and thank you for your objective and neutral administration, your ability to govern and your best example of acting as Speaker of Parliament, as you have shown it in the 24th and earlier years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, we, the National Movement Party, are trying to run a primitive, responsible and problem-solving policy, as in all areas, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In all our legislative activities and our control activities, we have tried to do the necessary work of this responsibility, this primordial political understanding, and we have shown it because of this last bag of legislation that we discussed. If we recall the last two articles, especially our Group Deputys Oktay Vural and Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu and our fellow members of the Somalı mine workers who had been laid off for severance, we have been very constructive and positive, and in these regulations, of course, the efforts of the National Movement Party of Parliament can't be denied. Again, we have made the latest arrangement that extends the scope of mortal accidents in the mines, including families of Zongulduldish victims. Dear lawmakers, of course, in particular here, in recent months, at times, the problems of our pensioners have begun to prevent other problems. Because according to the latest information released by the Social Security Agency in December 2014, our country receives 10 million, 911,000 pensioners, widows and orphans, and incomes. People who retire after a long working life dream of living the rest of their lives peacefully, happily, and humanly, without any future concern. However, pensioners in our country, unfortunately, are not happy. Retirers lead a desperate life from the future, and pensioners are in trouble. For many years, the silent cry of those who have worked has been ignored by the Justice and Development Party government. If the pensioners today cannot live humanely, if they are happy and peaceful, if the month they receive is not enough, if they are suffering from severe income and are overwhelmed by debts, of course the perpetrator and the perpetrator and the governor and the responsible are primarily the government. The Justice and Development Party, which boasted of being in power alone for 12 years, has not been able to solve the problems of our pensioners in these 12 years. Every penny that goes into our pensioners' pockets goes to raises, interest, tax. Our pensioner is almost in debt, whatever he has is gone, and every year our pensions are poorer than the previous year, and most of our pensions are under the age of starvation. Retired pensioners couldn't afford to pay their own expenses, so they had to take care of their unemployed child and his family. The exponential increases for pensioners are so low, so symbolic, and according to this, how much did the pensioner's pension increase? Let me remind you: 24 lira. So, how much did the pension of retired BUG-KUR go up? 13 liras and 15 liras. In the latest arrangements on minimum wagers, you know, if the spouse is at least paid, the wife is not working, and if she has three children, $9 has been given an advantage, and the last one to pay the pensioners 100 lira per month is paid with less than $1,000 a month's pay. That's a lot of trouble, too. And pensioners have been struggling for years to get bank promotion. They've been waiting for more than eight years. The Justice and Development Party government couldn't even pull it off when it was actually a matter of ease. Not everyone got a pensioner when they were getting a bank promotion. Social Security pays $120 billion a year -- or, in old terms, more than 120 quadrillion liras -- but pensioners don't get promotions from banks that make these payments. What does that mean? The interest lobby, interest lobby. That's the interest lobby. It's one of the great evidence that the government is working with the interest lobby. If you don't cooperate with the interest lobby or you don't lose to him, you'll get a pension promotion. Why can't you make me? Why are you with the interest lobby and not the pensioners? On the other hand, health care is free. You say that health care is free. However, pensioners do not properly know what a pension is because of the cuts you've made in exchange for medical allowance, participation, prescription money, box money, difference fees. That's where we put the social security premium. The problems of pensioners have not been solved. There was no debt arrangement for the tax-paying period. In this department, there are also certain regulations that are debatably necessary, but since we can't afford the time... here are 86 and 87, closing the Ministry of Finance High Education. It was founded in 1998, and this step was taken to establish the head of the Finance Higher Education Centre and a finance academy. When that didn't happen, the President of the Treasury High Education Center was established. One of the reasons for this is that it is said that it is no longer functional, it cannot function enough. You will then make it functional. If you evacuate the institutions, you have to shut them down one day if you don't do what you need to do, and you can't miss the extensions of the power panic that started after December 17th-25th. The Ministry of Finance's IRS has priority issues with its staff. The 24th term has been completed, but these problems have not been resolved by the government and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's no peace of work left in the Ministry of Finance, no peace left. The IRS manager, IRS manager, vice principals, income experts, chief and officers' rights became a mess. The working peace of employees at the Ministry of Finance Accounting General Directorate, Budget General Directorate and other General Directorships has also been broken. The rights of freedom have also become equal, fair, and devoid of right. These personnel have been victimised in terms of working conditions, salary and rights. The problems of bookkeeping expert and expert assistants have continued to increase. In accordance with Article 666, career experts who carried out similar tasks were supposedly intended to address their wage imbalances, but the bookkeeping experts and assistants were excluded from the ruling. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0061par0026	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0062par0030	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the third chapter of the Law on Health and Safety Act 687. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers, as the main reason for business accidents, the bill, which does not see privatisation, subtitles of neoliberal policies, subcontractorisation, ununionisation and dismantling, has been presented as a new regulation in the existing legislation, especially under Law 6331. For example, according to the bill, it is required to obtain a certificate of professional competence for those designated by the Ministry for extremely dangerous and dangerous activities. However, this obligation already exists in the Law on Occupational Health and Occupational Safety, 6331. Dear lawmakers, the same is the case, as we noted earlier, for employers who do not comply with the rules of occupational safety. A review of regulations in Law 6331 and binding regulations is often seen in the draft. Although the bill is alleged to have been prepared to complete the shortcomings of Law 6331, it is evident that a guaranteed working life to limit the employer's authority remains to be maintained. Therefore, the bill did not include another regulation on the removal of subcontractor employment, the giving up of the redevans system, which invited business murders. Again, although it is known that one of the most effective ways to oversee occupational security is the employee's right to oversee the working conditions through his union, the bill is not seen in the form of free trade unionism. Mr. President, these fundamental flaws support the idea that there is a need for unsecured workers to create capital by hiring, to compete over cheap labor, to transfer funds through the subcontractor system. The bill, in fact, is in a vision that, despite the fact that it is known, is far from being able to solve it, going around the problem, weighing the possible measures. In short, the bill, which ignores a working environment where privatisation and subcontractorisation are encouraged, where flexible working styles are widely distributed, reduces the solution to superficial measures. Dear lawmakers, one of the regulations in the third part of the bill is related to our disabled citizens who work in public institutions. In the regulation, workers who work on the permanent staff of workers at public institutions and institutions and who have reportedly been disabled at least 40 per cent in the health board report, and workers who have a first degree blood relatives who are obliged to take care of them, can be asked to switch places within the institution based on reasons stemming from the disability situation. Dear lawmakers, it is a great flaw that the arrangement covers workers who work only in public institutions and institutions. Therefore, disabled citizens working in the private sector must also be covered by law. It is a violation of the constitutional right to equality that our disabled citizens working in the private sector should be excluded from the regulation. Dear lawmakers, in addition to being excluded from education to health, transport to business, all kinds of economic and social areas, it would be unacceptable for the disabled to be subjected to discrimination in the form of private sector workers, as well as to democratic rights in the social process and the disabled who are largely deprived of the most basic human rights. The state is responsible for providing equal opportunities for all its citizens, as in many other areas, the government does not fully fulfill its responsibility in this area. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the approach to contracts signed in Turkey concerning the human rights of disabled individuals is mostly superficial and populist, the way they extend a helping hand is largely ongoing in terms of the state perception. There is an urgent need for a look at the centre of the barriers imposed by state institutions and society to prevent disability from being a personal tragedy. People are not worth economic value or usefulness, but only because they mean something in terms of being human. This should inevitably happen for disabled individuals and disabled employees. Mr. President, it is imperative to develop more positive approaches to our disabled citizens who work in the private sector, given that those who are fortunate enough to have a job with symbolic figures have the opportunity to do symbolic work. It has long been in the universal human rights norms, where disabled persons are equal to other individuals in the community, and a possible adaptation should be done by society, not by disabled people. In this regard, the regulations that lead to social life, working life have to consider human differences. In this regard, the issue of disability must be judged in all respects within the framework of equality and equal rights. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are now being treated with the concept of human dignity, equality, emancipation, and the concepts of human rights organizations, international institutions, states that are starting to take part in the agenda of human rights, as key elements in the search for rights. ▪ Respect for equality and difference, again, are important concepts in the relationship of disability and human rights, both in person and in order for other elements to be understood better. Of course, society is a structure of different individuals that should be hosting this situation. In this regard, the equality of human rights is the equality of one's rights, of one's own value, of one's conduct, of value, and of another's rights. Dear lawmakers, we have to encourage, protect, and provide full and equal use of human rights and basic freedoms for all disabled persons, and encourage the honor of those who are born with dignity. According to this, the right to work with the disabled should be recognised equally as the right of other citizens, and this right should allow the disabled to earn their living in an open, inclusive and accessible business market and a job in which they are free to work. In this regard, workplaces and employers should be responsible for creating these environments because they do not have the necessary physical environment. Dear lawmakers are also important points to be guaranteed by law and other regulations to prevent any discrimination based on obstacles at work. In this framework, Mr. Minister of Labour and the Government urge the General Assembly to be more sensitive to our disabled citizens who work in the private sector and not to neglect our citizens who could hardly find a job in the private sector, again.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0063par0048	Thank you, Mr. Dora. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0064par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, despite all the pressures, I want to thank you for your patience for showing the objective and neutral governances not just for today, but for showing them in the entire Parliament process. My dear friends, when I came to this House, as a worker, may I be able to contribute a little bit to the removal of this distortion? But we see that what we're saying is written in ice, written in water, and the system is written in water, and that these laws that we've been talking about today and until today don't really change anything, in fact, a system needs to be questioned. What's wrong? The sovereignty of the capitalist system is widespread in both the world and Europe, but this system is now being questioned. Capitalist, neoliberal policies are now bankrupt, and as a result, a left wind is beginning to blow again, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This may not be in your senses today, this came, and he's doing literature here again. You can say that, but the destructions of globalization have been created in the past, however it has been fought against capitalism, will continue to fight capitalism today and will not end. Because a new wave of globalization has now reached bankruptcy, especially the dominant understanding that has been spread so far from the 1980s. You know when President Halit Narin, President of TİSK, laughed for many years, and we cried; now it's our turn to laugh. This oppression, of course, will end one day, and one day the workers will be in these battle zones with those jumpsuits again, and they will reveal it again on this May 1st, and they will say, "In your faith, Salam. They will continue to fight for your stubbornness." Now, without the system being questioned, without a new perception of the system, these problems are solved by palliative, dressing treatments. That's the problem with pensioners, that's the problem with the disabled, that's the problem with the 4/C people, that's the problem with the 4/B people, that's the problem with the non-assigned engineers, that's the problem with the non-assigned teachers, and that's the problem with the citizens who work for minimum wage in this country under the age of hunger. The problems of citizens and citizens of Turkey who are crushed under the poverty line in this country are in fact a system problem. The system has reached this point where it's been patched, this ship is starting to take on water, this ship is sinking. You can save the day with palliative measures, but in the long run, you won't be able to overcome this problem. Look, my friends, about the pensioners, our president, the Republican People's Party, wrote the election declaration with them, including its booming target. Again, our president and our administration will remove the Tasheron app. Now, they're telling us: Where is this source? Where will you get this money? Friends, you ask us for resources immediately. So when you're out here taking billions of pounds of money, and we've put the will to fix the problem of the victims of this country, you say, "Where's the source?" I'll tell you the source, guys, I'll tell you a subcontractor. Now, look, Kazim Kurt, who left us here, became our Mayor of Eskişehir Odunpazarı; MP, Mayor of the Woodpazari. When he first took over, he left, the AKP's municipality -- again I call AKP-List -- to raise the tender to $2.085 lira. Let me put it this way so you'll understand. At $2.085, it's a minimum wage, $900. I'll add all the other expenses -- insurance, tax, you know, severance pay -- totaling $1,413. What's the difference, fellas? 700 lira. Whose pocket is it in? He's going into the subcontractor's pocket. So, what's that subcontractor doing? He attends your activities -- sometimes by handing out $100 -- because he feeds from your meetings, and in all your organizations, the AKP's power feeds from that subcontractor, and you don't give up on him. Otherwise, these resources are at the Ministry of Health, here, here, on the Highways... On the highways, Mr. Secretary, he said it's settled. It's a joy. You didn't implement a three-year verdict, you didn't enforce a Supreme Court decision. Ten thousand workers waited for you for three years despite the verdict. So what would happen if you actually gave the money to the workers against these practices that you gave away and distributed everywhere, but you actually created the subcontractor republic? Today, we wouldn't talk about these swamps, we wouldn't talk about them. Why? If the employee's buying power goes up, my friends, if the pensioner's buying power goes up, it'll turn into industry. The growth of industry, in a country... Look, we're not anti-industrial. If there is no industry in a country, there is no democracy. The bigger the industry of a country, the bigger it gets, the more law there is in that country, there is justice. But a Turkey, which has not developed its industry and is still raised by artificial agendas, is actually a Turkey that is condemned to poverty. So, dear friends, we're at a point where our country is in the dark, even if the power cuts end. We swear to end this darkness, my dear friends. For years, we have tried to be the voice of the 4/C people, subcontractors, pensioners, unemployed; we have tried to explain to the worker the unjust, inequal working conditions, that death is not fate. Once again, I say we bury the dead to the poor, to the workers, to the garbage of fate's history. One day you will surely give account of Soma, and of the Travel, and of the mines, and of the souls that we have lost in the building. We are sworn to fight to build a future that we will raise with life, not death, and our struggle will continue under any circumstances. I declare once again from this stand that we will continue to fight to create the power of the workers, not for us to be here, but for our idea to be in power. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] I give you all my regards, my love, my friends.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0065par0065	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0066par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today, of course, is the last day of the Council's possible hearings, it seems, if the program grows. Regarding your subject's position as a member of the General Assembly, a member of our parliament has voiced his views on the bench today, but I would like to express the general sentiment of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group as Deputy Leader of the Group. We thank you for the objective and objective governance you have shown at all hearings, for receiving references to law and the Civil Code in the conduct of the Assembly General Assembly, and for the ability and the necessity to establish a government there as a Deputy Speaker of Parliament, free of political party identity. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to make an example of your attitude during this period towards the new vice presidents who will come there next. And we wish you the continued success of your future political, social, and personal life. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0067par0073	Thank you very much, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0068par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mr. Süleyman Çelebi, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Güldal Mumcu, has just made a very good assessment of the objective management of our Parliamentary Speaker, Mr. Güldal Mumcu. These are the views of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Güldal Mumcu, I thank and ask that the Republican People's Party Group continue for successful governance, for the objective governance he has shown from the beginning to this day, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0069par0080	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0087	Mr. President, dear friends, at the end of this merger, there will surely be a general assessment, but thank you for Mr. Mumcu's meticulousness and attention as he served as Vice President of the 2 groups. Likewise, I would like to thank Sadik Bey of Justice and Development Party, Ayşenur Hanım, and Meral Hanım of the MHP. Basically, there is some contrast between the evaluations of the farewell talks and the evaluations in the process. As we were talking inside, we thought it might be a good idea for Mr. Mumcu to show his farewell speeches to the Regents in advance at the beginning of the new term, and to say, "This will be the end of it." We thought it might be good to ensure that they spend a four-year period in the atmosphere of the farewell speech. Dear friends, I've taken this opportunity to conclude that there's been some confusion regarding this 100 lira increase issue. When I say confusion, I want to correct a confusion, a confusion of knowledge, a misunderstanding. First of all, about 2 million people who have retired from the pension box have already been paid over $1,100. That leaves 8.5 million BUG-KUR people and SEC pensioners. This 100 lira increase is of interest to these 8.5 million people at the bottom and above 1,000 liras. 60 per cent of the SSC and BUG-KUR pensioner, or 5,89,000 people, are benefiting from this 100 lira increase. That is: 3,300,000 pensioners receive this 100 lira directly because they receive less than $1,000. The remaining 1,785 thousand pensioners receive a salary of between $1,000 and $1.100, so they get a raise of $1.100. Secondly...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0071par0092	That's 22 liras.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0093	Some may have 99 liras, some may have 20 liras, but most of them get a raise of about 50 to 60 liras.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0071par0094	No, no, the number's clear.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0095	After all, this is a support for people in lower income. The approach of the EC PARTY is primarily to make arrangements that will raise the living standards of people in the lower income group within the scope of budgets. With other assistance and support, we've made arrangements for these disadvantaged groups of society, the sub-income groups. A second issue of confusion was a misinformation in the form of 100 liras, which will not be increased by TÜFE in July. The pensioners will get their regular raises in July. There's no connection between these raises and the raises they receive; everyone will get it, pensioners will get it. Secondly, pensioners will receive it in July because by law, such increases are being made in January and July.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0071par0097	But the 100 lira increase won't benefit from that raise.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0098	So we've done the raise today, so let's give it today. There's no application in this form. Those who will receive 100 lira in July will receive 100 lira -- which is less than $1,000 -- between $1,000 and $1.100 -- to reach $1.100.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0072par0099	Let the government decide on June 7th.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0100	Plus, they're gonna get the TUFE raises.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0073par0101	We're gonna fix it, we're gonna fix it, we're gonna fix it.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0074par0102	This is our group president, please.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0070par0103	We're giving you a bonus discount. You have to see who's taking advantage of that, too. He's taking advantage of 630,000 pensioners, increasing rates between 40 lira and 154 liras. One of the most important provisions is that we freeze the premium debt of 1,300,000 BUG-KUR. These people couldn't benefit from health care because they owed a bonus. This ice cream allows them to go to hospitals, take advantage of health care. These people in the sub-income group, who are unable to pay the premium debt, will therefore benefit from health care within the framework of the social state. That's how we solved a problem for the pharmacists. I've been promised to report these. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0075par0107	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0076par0108	Mr. President, sir, I had a conversation on the stand about a raise for the pensioners. Mr. Bostanci tried to answer the numbers I gave in that speech in a different way, but he used the numbers I gave him to serve a different purpose. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0077par0110	I didn't mention his name, sir, I mentioned a confusion, a lack of knowledge.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0076par0111	But that's the answer to me, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0077par0112	He doesn't have to answer me, he can comment on it himself, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0078par0113	You want to fix it.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0076par0114	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0078par0115	Fix it, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0079par0117	No hard feelings. It's not teasing. It's information.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0078par0118	There's a demand for correction. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0080par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I thank Mr. Bostanci for giving me this opportunity to talk. He used a very careful language to make sure there was no bullying, no opposition to the bench, but he still could not stop the opportunity to speak to me. I thank you. Let there be no confusion, all pensioners will receive a raise in July. There's no doubt about it, I didn't say anything. What I'm saying is, you're giving the pension a $100 raise, and you're not putting this $100 raise into this 3% increase. The 100 lira increase is not going to benefit from a 3% increase, so you're giving 100 lira, so you're saying it shouldn't go up 3 percent. How's that for an account? Look, this is the first one. Secondly, I've made it clear, Mr. Bostanci, if you have a different number, of course we can talk: 6.5 million SEC pensioners. The lowest pension in this group is $1.047; 3 per cent inflation, which reaches $1.078. So you're saying that $1.078 -- this is a $100 raise -- you're only paying $22.100 to get it to $1.100. If this pension is $1.095, you're giving me $5, retired brother, I'm giving you $5, but I'm not raising this 5 lira by 3 percent. That's what I'm saying. Whatever you say, whatever account you do, the Republican People's Party will give the pensioner a salary bonus for two holidays.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0081par0127	Where's he gonna give it to you?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0080par0128	When you start to ask, "Where will you give it?," it means that you accept our project. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0082par0131	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the person, Izmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0083par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's a comprehensive law, but as opposition, considering the interests of society, considering the demands of economic and social communities, we have made positive contributions to what needs to be done in this law. Yeah, well, there's been some progress on some of the materials, but it didn't work out the way we wanted it to. However, it turns out that we have shown a sensitive sense of opposition to the fulfillment of society's expectations. So it's really important that a public opposition brings the issues of society here to make certain demands of you, to be honest with you, to make arrangements for these demands, to be taught a little bit more than anything else. If -- all of us together -- there are some issues that might benefit the country, maybe it's not enough for us, but even if there is, we're taking a positive step. In the internal security law, we, the National Party of Action, have always expressed our position on these things. Yeah, well, there's no posh, there's no mask, there's no drugs, there's no drugs, there's no slingshot, there's no Molotov, okay, we said that, yes. Unfortunately, there's no dialogue to make positives more positive about it, to eliminate negatives, and frankly, there's no law that the whole nation can adopt. The essence of this law is actually the contribution of the opposition. We've made significant contributions. In this frame, in fact, the pensioner's pension... Of course, the 62nd government, but this 62nd government ends, ends on June 7th, and a new government arrives. Now, why is this government doing this about something he didn't do, about a raise in July? It's an election. If you're gonna do it, do it now, our retired brothers are waiting. For God's sake, if you're going to be an ointment for a wound, put on this ointment now. The 63rd government will already come in the elections after June 7th, and it will be the government's decision to make. So this, in a sense, has no more meaning than bringing a full election declaration here. Let's say, together, that the arrangement on a temporary clause will be implemented after it's in effect, so at least it's something the 62th government, Ahmet Davutoglu, gave to these pensioners. Otherwise, I don't think he'll be remembered for any positive action. So this 100 TL increase is also confused whether it is in or out of the 2.6th increase in July. Of course, there are positive ones, but the problem of subcontractors has not been resolved, we have served as Parliament, and the government has failed to perform its duty. You're saying this again, let's extend this task. There's a government that's not doing its duty. So I guess this was supposed to be over in February, and they couldn't. There are those who live in age, those who live in retirement have not been solved. The disabled have problems, unfortunately they're being tested for income, disabled salaries are being cut. We need to take precautions on that. The transfer of subcontractors to the staff will be done again. There will be. You say, "It will be done." You say it over and over again, but even though the Minister of Transport has promised it here, there has not been a step taken. I hope a step is taken about that. In this regard, 22 factories of BEYTEX Textiles in Adana, and Osmaniye have been shut down, 5,000 workers have gone. You're talking about six months' minimum wage in the name of 120,000, totalization, and the currents are losing. Cleaning workers working on the highways in the 1st District have been unable to receive their wages for two months. We need a new economic model. Not with these palliative measures. It's very clear that we need a new model of industrial relations. In an environment where capital product coefficients have evolved in favour of the labour coefficient, when we actually take into account the national economies that globalization destroys or all the workers that socialism refers to are united. Instead, we know that this country's worker needs land, factory needs production. For him, an economic policy is needed from a nationalist perspective. There is a need for an economic policy that will raise employment and pre-empt the welfare of the entire nation, to produce, to aim for a competitive Turkey, and to create a job that will bring prosperity on it. In this framework, I wish you the best of this law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like to thank you and all the friends who served on the Presidential Court. Of course, I can't help but notice, in particular, that we have repeatedly objected here on the stand, and we feel that our objections are justified. We state that the court and your administration are in accordance with the laws of Parliament, which are the law of the nation. This is not the seat of parties. (HPP) Your attitude and determination in implementing the Civil Code, which is the law of the nation, is really important. Let's not forget that we should all be subject to the law of this nation, not the law of the superior, but the rule of law. Therefore, I thank you and Ms. Meral for your respect for the rule of law and for making it superior to the law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0084par0151	Thank you, Mr. Vural. The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 66, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 687 rankings that are being discussed are the 16th Amendment to the Law on Health and Safety Act and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the form of supply and legislation, with the duties provided by the president in accordance with the legislation. With all due respect. Haydar Akar Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan Kokturk İzzet Cetin Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0085par0172	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0084par0173	Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0086par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, with the clause, the head of the Office of Executive and Financial Affairs of the Employment Agency is being transformed into the head of the Office of Human Resources and Support Services, and while this transformation is being made, the tasks assigned to this agency are being organised in more detail. It is a very important institution, in fact; it has a special budgetary institution and a very important task, with its public constitutional personality, its legal and administrative and financial autonomy, and its very important tasks, but while these tasks are being carried out, of course, staff will be employed. Only the staff here are employed in accordance with the Employment Law. Employees of such important tasks need to have job security, so it is more appropriate that the majority of the staff of this institution be subject to the Law of State Officers. If there was going to be an adjustment to human resources, I'd say it would be helpful to consider it. Now, if you'll excuse me while I say so, I'd like to make a brief mention of public employment. Now, we're in favor of the public hiring of staff, taking into account examinations and objective measurements. However, we regret to inform you that during the Justice and Development Party period, in your transition, this principle has been very violated and is more likely to be taken into public service by those who are close to power and who we can call allies. It undermines the public conscience. That's the first thing. Second of all, this legislature is over. During this legislature, I regret to inform you, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey did not give a positive test for legislation. With the basic law and the bag of law, I'm afraid the Turkish Grand National Assembly's legislative authority has been undermined. Although Mr. Prime Minister stated that after becoming Prime Minister, the bag would be waived from law enforcement, this practice continued again. So the Prime Minister couldn't keep his mouth shut. But what should happen is that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a law factory. The law must be objective, objective and abstract, and the preparation for it must be carried out. Besides, there's a code of law on this issue. The main work must be matured before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey comes to the General Assembly, perhaps in bureaucratic levels, then in the fellowship commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and then must come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as well as to the General Assembly. But, we're also seeing from the current application, unfortunately, we're detecting that it's not being followed. And now we've seen, here's the last day, sir, we're doing the new stuff, we're subtracting the stuff, we're changing the materials, etc. Now, what does this show, Mr. Secretary? That no serious work has been done on this matter. We see that a serious study on this has been carried out at the ministry, and then the draft was not sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Unfortunately, it's not just about your Ministry, it's seen in all ministries. Hopefully, during the next legislature, this practice will be eliminated and there will be laws in accordance with law enforcement, but you make the law according to daily needs. Sir, is there a problem with Cargill, you're making a law. You're making a law about the HSYK not acting the way you want it to. Do you suffer from law enforcement or do you dislike law enforcement? You make a law against it. Sir, here, in Adana, the gendarmes have captured the MIT trucks, and this time you're making a law against politicizing the gendarmes. So, all the laws you've made, all the laws brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, come as a law of reaction to an event. But the law doesn't have a law of reaction. I've just said, it's born of a social need, it's prepared for this, it's taken all the actors' opinions, and it comes to the General Assembly as mature. Hopefully, it'll be like that from now on. I wish you all the best in the rest of your lives. I pay my respects. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0087par0183	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 72nd article that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 687 ranking "We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 72 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on Health and Safety Act and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Aytücı Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Ali İhsan Kokturk Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine (2) The necessary arrangements for the issues specified in the legislation concerning the areas of ministries and public institutions and institutions are made within nine months from the time this clause is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0088par0205	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0087par0206	Who's gonna talk? Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0089par0207	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0087par0208	Mr. Kaleli, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0089par0210	Mr. President, on the last day of the 24th Legislature, I have made a pledge on the 72nd Amendment of Bill 687. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I believe that we need to keep the mirror to ourselves for what has happened in this time of good and evil, because we have a general problem of thinking and thinking. We're all like mental lepers. It all starts with the thought. Word, thought, behavior, habit, we can get from character to destiny. We judge by the judgment and judgment of others, we can't create ourselves, we can't exist as ourselves. If the people control the government, they make laws for their own benefit. In societies where power is a state, the will of the majority, which he considers a means of sustaining his own existence, inequality cannot be removed, work safety and job security cannot be provided. The only place where goodness dwells is the human heart. The only place justice is conceptualized is the human mind. Where love is experienced is the human spirit, the conscience, the love. Morality, conscience, love - killing humanity - unfortunately, it can't be legalized. If the laborer is being deterred from acting on the basis of civil security for civil rights, if the socialist advocates for equal rights, the communist advocates for human rights, the radical feminist advocates for women's rights, the marginal advocate for environmental rights, we can't talk about freedoms if they're all considered marauders and terrorists. All injustice, injustice, inequality, injustice, unfortunately, is feeding despair, and despair is producing violence. As Gandhi said, do not come out in front of the applause with blood on your hands. No problem can be solved realisticly if we do not increase the Development Index on Humanity and Gender, if we do not adopt the equality of gender. The search for professional competence to work in dangerous and very dangerous working areas is no doubt essential to prevent business accidents. The existence of workers and unions demanding labor is just as important. Turkey's report card is weak on inspections. Occupational qualifications, qualifications, and quantity of business inspectors are just as important. Here, too, the existence of the will to take on political responsibility is more important than any other. We're looking for a reason why people die when we can stop hunger, poverty, violence, labor killings. Can a man who needs bread seek rights? Especially if the privatisation of strategic, high-risk, human sectors is carried out according to the several-changing Public Contraction Act, discrimination, subsidiary, rant, interest, resource transfers, the health of inspections is not expected, the implementation of the law is not expected. The right production policies, incentive systems, financial monetary policies, employment and RD policies must be implemented in order to make the audit healthy. Gandhi says: "Insane destruction means nothing to the dead, orphans, women, unemployed, the poor, the workers, and the homeless because of totalitarianity or for freedom and democracy, it means nothing to us if our policies of the new century are not consolidated with conscience. " As the 24th term, which we put behind us with good and bad, ends, he asks all lawmakers here to make our rights lawful, healthy, happy, mutual; and he says that the days of injustice will be brought down with justice, and that we will call it power from here are near, he says.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0090par0220	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 72nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 72 accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the 76th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose amendments to certain Laws and Laws under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Act 687, which is currently in session, that Article 76 of the Law Bill be removed from the bill. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Fatih Şahin Hakan Çağoğlu Ramazan Can The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan Kokturk Sena Kaleli Does the commission agree with two proposals of the same nature? We're leaving it to appreciation, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0091par0245	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0090par0246	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0092par0248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start by reminding you of the Japanese engineer Kishi Ryoichi, who committed suicide, while the changes in this Health and Health Act are being discussed. You know why I want to start by reminding you? This Japanese engineer saw and committed suicide as the rope broke because of a crack in Turkish equipment. If that rope had been done every day before it was broken, at least 30, 40 workers would have been there and lost their lives by falling 130 meters. Now, based on that incident, I'd like to express the application of this in Turkey, the logic of the work killings. The most job killings in Turkey are in mining and construction, but in other areas, industrial enterprises have these murders, but in numbers, these are the most. In March alone, 139 workers lost their lives, 351 workers lost their lives within three months in Turkey. Now, during your Ministry, Turkey and even the world's largest mining accidents occurred. Let me remind you where it happened, when you came here to offer your condolences, and you said that there should be a solution for them: it happened in Karadon. Do you remember Karadon? Again, it happened in Afghanistan. The bodies are still under the coal mines, the bodies of the citizens. Again, it happened in Kozlu, and our living example was in Soma, and we lost 301 lives. Later, he was in Ermenek. When did this happen? This was all in the hands of Mr. Minister of Labor and Social Security. I just reminded you of the Japanese engineer. Moving on. Remember that. I'm curious about your time in the Ministry, as Europe and the world's largest business killings are in Turkey. I told you, the world's largest business murder took place last year in Soma. Again, during the time of your Ministry, I have come to this bench to defend the rights of labor and labor. Even if you did, I will remove the obstacles, the organizational barriers. If you said so, you ended up organizing in Turkey. How did you end it? Our friends who wanted to be organized were fired from work in business, in factories where they were found. I've told you so many times, and I've given you many examples. Again, down to the lowest level in history, the unionisation in Turkey has descended to the lowest level in history in industry, industry and business. Even on September 12th, more workers were organized, more workers were unionists, and today he's made history, thanks to you. Now, we're looking at subcontractors. You took 60-70,000 people in the government, and you subcontracted the government. You've institutionalized subcontractorship with your laws. You said: "We can't afford to be a Tabheron. You've raised the subcontractor to 670,000. In the state, you've made all public institutions and institutions subcontracted. Ha, you said: let's institutionalize it in the state, and we can't afford it in private. In my town, giant companies, tire manufacturers of the world -- Pirelli, Bridgestone, Goodyear, again, an electric distribution company, SeDAS subcontractors, all of them. Oh, you don't calculate private costs, but in one state, do you calculate the costs? Since it's private, we're saying it can be lifted up in the state, we're going to dig up subcontractor work in the Republican People's Party's government, our contractors will all be staffed. Again, people with terminal diseases in your time can't find drugs, which is in your household, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, you're really trying, but after every effort you've made, every time you've come to this stand and told me, things are getting worse in Turkey. Again, many deadly diseases cannot be found in Turkey. Parents are screaming on TV. You've done it again and in your time, in whose time do they pay for the biggest drug money in history, health care? They accessed it during your Department of Labor and Social Security. They're getting the most expensive health care in history. Because when pensioners went to the doctor before, they only paid $7 for 70 lira in prescriptions; now, you start 11 separate diagnostics, you start with a phone, you go with an MRI, you go with an MRI, you go with a doctor's fee, and you look at the three cents a pensioner gets. Mr. Secretary, I've given you an example of a Japanese engineer, although your term is over, and whether you resign after that, it's of no value, but after that, the ministers of the Republic of Turkey must at least be as responsible for their work as this Japanese engineer. Mr. President, I thank you for all the good governances that you've shown, the laws that you've shown, the regulations that are in accordance with the Civil Code, and to all my friends, my love, my respect.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0093par0259	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: It was intended to be removed from the bill, since current regulations are considered to be able to answer the need. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with these motions, I submit to your votes the 76th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 77th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 78th article, the two are the same property, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following joke be added at the end of the 78th article of the current law bill 687 rows. The same rights apply to employees who work in the private sector and have the same criteria. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of Article 4/4/2007 of the Law shall not be made in accordance with the Law on Business Health and Safety Act 687 which is currently in session, and shall not be used more than once in Article 4/4/2007, and shall not be used in Article 55620, as part of the Article 2 of the Article of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Hakan Sergeantoğlu Fatih Şahin Ramazan Can The signatures of the other motion are: Aytüg Thrower Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğün Çelebi Süleyman Çelebi Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We're leaving it up to appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0094par0291	We agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0093par0292	I'm reading the grounds for the same motions: The article is removed from the text of the law in order to remove obstacles to the use of the rights envisioned in this article, considering the uniqueity of the employment and transitional processes of the workers involved in the relevant legal arrangement. Reason for the other motion of the same nature: Since the public institution employees involved in this arrangement may be subject to special circumstances and may be subject to a limitation of rights, the tender was removed from the clause text. I submit these two motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit and propose that the following joke be added at the end of the 78th article of the current law bill 687 rows. The same rights apply to employees who work in the private sector and have the same criteria. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0095par0306	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit03spe0093par0307	I'm reading the reason: It is intended for disabled citizens working in the private sector to benefit from the same rights. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. In accordance with the earlier motion, I submit to your votes the 78th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm making a correction. Article 76 has been removed from the draft text in accordance with the motion adopted, which I am correcting, and the rest of the articles will be arranged accordingly. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 91st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. We stayed on the 80th. There are three motions on the 80th article, all three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a month and a year's change of the declaration of the 80th Amendment of the underlying 687 rows of the Bill of Legislature. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Fatih Şahin Ramazan Can Hakan Sergeantoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Musa Pine Sinan Aydın Aygün Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0096par0029	We agree, sir. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends In order to protect and improve the right to a collective contract of employment, the period of one month's exemption is intended to be changed as one year. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends It is intended to extend the scope of the right to a collective contract of employment of trade unions, which are included in the article. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends A month's limitation is intended to be extended by change.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0097par0040	I submit these motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 80th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 81: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that Article 81 of the Common Law Bill 687 be removed from the Charter text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Hakan Sergeantoğlu Fatih Şahin Ramazan Can The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan İkturk Musa Pine Do you agree with these three motions, Mr. Commission? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0098par0062	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0097par0063	Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0099par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, this substance, it's a substance that actually comes out, but I have made a promise to draw attention to one thing. And that's a whole working life, which is that since Act 4857 came into effect in 2003, you've made major changes in many institutional laws, you've created institutional working lives. For example, the Bank of Provinces and PTT Inc are in the institutional code. Those who work at this institution are not subject to 4850, they are not subject to 657, they are not subject to other labour legislation. You have degenerated the labour law, which is fundamental enough to make the law of illegal running. There's been an adjustment here, but I'd like to get your attention, read it, for God's sake. A fundamental law was made that lacks the law or consent to allow the Director General of the Forest to change its rule with a regulation. You really don't have the right to do that, so I'm the child of a forest peasant who works in the woods -- I mean, how hard the working conditions are in the woods, the dragging, the cutting, the main warehouse, the storage, maybe the hardest labor. 20,000 villages, 8 million citizens make a living out of these forests. It's not proper for a legal state not to pay him overtime, to see too much of what he'll get for four or five months' work in his season. In fact, forest villagers and forest workers in Turkey are the poorest of the social populations, the most vulnerable people, the most docile people, have no problems with the state, do their own work, do their own work, do their own water needs in their villages, even make their own way, even make their own way. In such a life of suffering, you might say: "Ya, let them come to the edges of the city. " They migrate to the edges of the city and stop themselves from becoming a social burden, and suffer, and we try to destroy them with regulations. No matter who it is, no matter what political power, no matter what party it is, in power, power must be protected, without opposition, the forest peasant must be protected, because they are really the hard-working part. Now, there's been a mistake here, and that arrangement has come out. So the employee who spends his time at work waiting for the employer's job, the worker waiting for the job, whether he's a firekeeper or a forest worker, he should be able to get overtime, not with that overtime, not with the Department of Forestry or the State. For him, it's a good arrangement to have this arrangement out. And I want to thank the minister for his convenience. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0100par0071	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I'm reading the reasons for other proposals of the same nature: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends With this, the upper limit of work is removed for 45 hours a week and 11 hours a day. This arrangement clearly prepares the groundwork. "The excessive work and other issues related to the implementation of this clause, the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which shall be regulated by the General Directorate of the Forest, will be able to expose major rights and exploitation in terms of labour rights. The issues related to overwork time should be organised in this bill and should not be contrary to international themes. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The article is removed from the draft text, which is considered to be the answer to the need for current regulations. I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... have been accepted and thus come out of Article 81. Your Grace, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0101par0084	Mr. President, thank you very much. Since the General Assembly opened last night and today, I'm working with our members of the group for a legal arrangement on this side, which is: we have a tractor factory in Burdur, founded in 1974, closed in 1985. He went to the forest headquarters with a court order through permission. We made a legal arrangement in 2012, given a temporary two-year deadline. There were three tenders, and there were two of them, but they failed to fulfill their commitments. Now, again, there's a one-point legal arrangement for the Forest General Directorate to tender for a twenty-nine-year period, along with 26 thousand square meters of closed space, 333 acres of land, along the same adjacent border with OSB. So I'd like to ask the group's deputy presidents to issue a material motion to bring employment into the economy for the value of this factory, which has been at stake for thirty years. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0088	Thank you, Mr. Originality. I submit the 82nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 82nd article is accepted. I submit Article 83 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 84 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 85th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 86; they are of the same nature, I make them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 86 of the current draft bill, which is 687 rows, be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Ali İhsan İkturk Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0103par0111	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0112	I'm reading the reason: The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends The reason for the closure of the relevant institution has not been made clear. The closure of the institution aims to remove the substance from the bill in order to prevent potential victims. I'm reading the reason: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends The goal is to address the victims that may have arisen from change and matter. I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature that I have made read their reasons: those who accept... those who refuse... they are not accepted. I submit the 86th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 87th article, the two are of the same nature, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 687 of Business Health and Safety Act 687, we propose and propose that the first amendment of Article 115 of Article 13/12/1983 shall be adopted in accordance with Article 178 and shall be added to the provisions of the Ministry of Finance and its duties in accordance with Article 178. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Hakan Davoglu Osman love Look Ramazan Can "The duties of those in the ranks of the President of the Financial Higher Education Centre and the Vice President of the Finance Higher Education Centre will end on the day this clause is in effect. At the time of the execution of this clause, the chair of Finance Higher Education Centre and the vice-president of the Finance Higher Education Centre, are considered to have been replaced as the Ministry of Ministry of State staffs, which are part of the Ministry of Finance's Ministry (I) section of the Charter (I) on General Staff and its Commission. At the time of the application of this clause, the Finance Higher Education Centre and the Vice Presidents of the Finance Higher Education Centre are hereby appointed to the Ministry's Counsellor staff without any further processing. As of the date they were assigned to their new staff, the amount of salary and compensation is also paid as compensation, except for the additional tuition fee they received in the last month (this amount is based on a fixed value); as well as as the amount of the amount of additional and compensation and so on, as opposed to the amount of net payment they were assigned to their new staffs, as well as the amount of compensation they were assigned to, except for the amount of tax and so on and so forth. Those who have any optional changes in their assigned staff titles and who have been assigned to other institutions of their own free will will be terminated from paying compensation for the difference. The Ministry's Counsellor staff, replaced with this clause, has been cancelled without any procedure in case they ejaculate." I'm reading two other motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of the current 687 rows of the Bill be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Aytücı Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Ali İhsan İkturk Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0104par0145	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0146	I'm getting you to read your reasons: İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends The loss of rights due to change is intended to address the victims. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends 86. This clause, which is linked to matter, has nothing to do with the purposes of the bill. Therefore, it has been recommended to be removed from the text of the law. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With Article 87 of Article 13/12/1983, the Ministry of Finance shall be added to the provisions of the First Amendment to the First Amendment of the First Amendment of the First Amendment under the Law and Law Act 687. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "The duties of those in the ranks of the President of the Financial Higher Education Centre and the Vice President of the Finance Higher Education Centre will end on the day this clause is in effect. At the time of the execution of this clause, the chair of Finance Higher Education Centre and the vice-president of the Finance Higher Education Centre, are considered to have been replaced as the Ministry of Ministry of State staffs, which are part of the Ministry of Finance's Ministry (I) section of the Charter (I) on General Staff and its Commission. At the time of the application of this clause, the Finance Higher Education Centre and the Vice Presidents of the Finance Higher Education Centre are hereby appointed to the Ministry's Counsellor staff without any further processing. As of the date they were assigned to their new staff, the amount of salary and compensation is also paid as compensation, except for the additional tuition fee they received in the last month (this amount is based on a fixed value); as well as as the amount of the amount of additional and compensation and so on, as opposed to the amount of net payment they were assigned to their new staffs, as well as the amount of compensation they were assigned to, except for the amount of tax and so on and so forth. Those who have any optional changes in their assigned staff titles and who have been assigned to other institutions of their own free will will be terminated from paying compensation for the difference. The Ministry's Counsellor staff, replaced with this clause, has been cancelled without any procedure in case they ejaculate." Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving credit to the president of the NECDET UNIVERSITY. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0105par0162	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0106par0163	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0164	I'm having it read. In addition to the head of the Finance Higher Education Centre, the Vice Presidents are also intended to be appointed as Ministry Counselors. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 87, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, members of parliament, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and his friends have issued a motion for the new clause violation, which includes the restructuring of Article 35 of Public Officials Unions 4688 and Article 35 of the Common Contract Act. According to Article 87 of the Civil Code, new amendment proposals, which bring additional and change in the laws that are not the subject of the proposed bill or proposal, cannot be processed. The motion is not adopted because there is a change in a law that is not being adopted in the draft bill. For your information. Now, about a temporary matter violation...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0107par0173	We'll discuss the temporary clause, and then we'll discuss... the temporary article one.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0108par0174	We'll discuss the motions in the interim 1, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0175	Congressmans, we'll discuss the temporary clause first. There's a temporary clause, and there are three motions on it, and I'm going to read it: The current draft of the 687 rows is Temporal 1. We propose and propose that the declaration of the article shall not be applied until the date.31.12.2015, which is not implemented until.01.01.2016. Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Ahmet Duran Cloud, you've brought Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the temporary Article 1 of the current Law Bill 687 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Levent Gök Aytuğ Thrower Burhan Kayaturk Mustafa Bilici the Conqueror Gülşen Orhan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Serindağ 2. Buildings that have been damaged due to the 2011 earthquake in Van Province and identified as medium damage or severe damage according to Law 7269 are considered a risky structure under the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet No. 6306, dated 16/5/2012 and carried out by the Law on these structures." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Interim 1st Amendment of the current 687 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzyya Leader İbrahim Ayhan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0109par0201	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0110par0202	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0203	I'm having him read his motive: At public institutions where the current sub-employee relations continue, where workers are employed outside the tender issue, executives have begun to take workers out of their current jobs to avoid these sanctions. In particular, it has been a matter of forced cleaning workers who have been employed under cleaning tenders and have been actually employed as branch workers. This has led to chaos in numerous public institutions and institutions and the victim of subcontractors. The postponement of the application of this substance will not solve the problem, it will only divert. It's not possible to solve the problem without going to the source of the problem. For the solution to the problem, at least the proper decisions must be carried out, and the workers employed in the main work outside the tender should be employed as public workers. The final solution is to stop subcontractorization and to employ all subcontractors as public workers. With change, the solution to these problems is intended to provide opportunity. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the temporary Article 1 of the current Law Bill 687 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya), Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends 2. Buildings that were damaged in the province of Van in 2011 and identified as medium damage or severe damage according to Law 7269 are considered a risky structure under the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet No. 6306, dated 16/5/2012, and are being processed according to the Law on these structures." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0111par0215	Mr. President, won't we join Van in the motion? We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0217	Now I'm going to read the reason: Buildings identified as medium or severe damage due to the 2011 quakes in Van County are not possible to process these structures under Law 6306, as they have been destroyed by the risk-determination of structures in accordance with the Law No. 6306, in the days following the execution of Law 6306. Since it has been identified as damaged by the arrangement, it is estimated that a temporary clause in Law 6306 will be added to Law 6306 in order to be assessed as part of Law 6306, which was destroyed because it poses a risk to life safety. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. It's the Temporal 1st Amendment of the current 687 rows. We propose and propose that the declaration of the article shall not be applied until the date.31.12.2015, which is not implemented until.01.01.2016. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0112par0228	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0102par0229	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0113par0230	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. In the 18th year of his loss, he dedicated his life to the world of Turkey and Islam, and left behind millions of mourners, nationalists, and the Prime Minister, Alparslan Türkesh Bey, who had left behind, with gratitude and gratitude and gratitude, and we reminiscely remember him and his ideas, and we give him another word from this stand. The Public Contraction Act was added to Law 6552. Dear friends, this clause was of interest to the staff employed by the subcontractors to do their jobs and to the authorities to have subcontractors sent back to the cleaning work immediately, otherwise it was envisioning punishment for the administrators. Dear friends, this item - the cookery company? Through 11 January -- he also told the Council of Ministers to make an arrangement at the same time, but this arrangement was not made until 11 January, where until the precious friends, the executives of the institutions, in the offices, sent staff who had performed the same task for years, even master, doctorates, to clean jobs. Temporarily, the 1st article management and staff are actually a comforting arrangement, but it brings comfort to the end of 2015. So, dear friends, for the arrangement that brings this relative relief, Mr. Secretary knows very well that as members of the National Movement Party, we really worked hard on this; we reached out to them, and we reached out to our friends in the Commission. Although the problem is unresolved, I also know that I have a debt of gratitude to our Precious Commission, which is the representative of various parties, particularly Mr. Secretary, for bringing this relative relief arrangement. Dear friends, can a worker who has worked for fifteen years be called a temporary (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. Furthermore, it is possible that the staff who operate the main and permanent services of the state will still be called more workers. How can the original and continuous work of the Constitution be consistent with the principle of the officers? How can subcontractorism, meaning modern slavery, be associated with the modern sense of state? If so, friends, it would be appropriate for all subcontractors to cease the bleeding wound of our working life and first publish the decision of the Council of Ministers, which properly defines tasks, and then assign staff to all subcontractors, training, and mandates. This is a commitment to the nation of the National Movement Party and to our brothers and sisters working as subcontractors. In the power of the National Movement Party, this problem will be resolved and given full staff. Dear lawmakers, in the 24th term of this platform, we have addressed the problems of the oppressed areas, civil servants, Turkish Armed Forces, Police Headquarters, petty officers, police officers, fire staff, non-assigned teachers, non-assigned agricultural and food engineers, jobs and occupational advisors, many social groups. Unfortunately, however, the government ignored these words and did not take any steps to resolve their problems. As the National Movement Party, which has carried out its responsibility to be the voice of the quiet, we refer this deafness and blindness of the Justice and Development Party to our nation's common sense and unwavering conscience. Now the evaluation will be our beloved nation on June 7th. Dear friends, friends who come here are probably making the final speeches of their term. We've had that kind of talk. And as I salute your grand delegation on this occasion, I wish all lawmakers in this period health, peace and quiet. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0114par0240	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the previously accepted motion, I submit to your votes the interim clause one: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now there's a new interim supply, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the temporary clause below to the current Law Bill 687 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman Love Look Ramadan Can Conquer Şahin "UNCLE 2-22/12/2014 and the 2015 Central Management Budget Law No. 6583 added to K Cetvellin IV. In the 8th article of the section entitled Other Payments, Modjic No. 2022 has been applied as 1.2,332" between the dates of 1/7/2015-31/12/2015 for months bound or bound according to the 1 th article of the Law on the Monthly Bonding to the Weak and the Unwanted Turkish Citizens. Does the commission participate in the motion with a majority of 14 people? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Now, since the Commission has joined the motion with its only majority, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0115par0258	We'll talk about it in the motion, we have a motion to make.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0114par0259	Then you won't talk. You have no demands on the motion.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0115par0261	No, we have a motion to discuss.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0114par0262	Okay. Do you?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0116par0264	I do.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0114par0265	You do. Sorry about the mix-up. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0117par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the new clause added to Bill 687. I don't salute pensioners and senior citizens, but the lawmakers who really do. Dear friends, I'd like to begin with a statement from Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Ataturk says that a nation's attitude toward elderly citizens and pensioners is the most important part of the nation's power to live. A people who have no gratitude for those who have worked with this power while they are in the past have no right to look to the future with confidence." Now, we've all worked in the past years, our fathers, our mothers, they've worked in the past, they're capable, but if we don't feel grateful to these people now, we can't look to the future with confidence, with confidence. That's what Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said. Now, let's see, they've been talking about pensioners ever since. Are we able to take care of these people when they've become powerless -- after they're not the only ones who've actually contributed to the rise of the country? We've just discussed pension issues, and we've made it clear that we don't show the proper sensitivity to our pensioners. Now, is there anything worse than bad? Well, I swear to God, there's worse. How do we look at poor, weak, homeless Turkish citizens who are 65 years old? Come on, they were retired, they worked in the past, they had a little salary. We're going to bring 100 liras. You really misled the nation, you gave them around $22 and gave them a contribution. It's a contribution, I get it, but telling the truth is the main thing. So, what's the point of looking at our homeless, needy citizens who have not been able to retire by working -- yet, our shame -- who have not been able to retire by working at 65 years of age? Now, with today's numbers, we're only paying $145 to these needy citizens. It's a painting of shame. You've seen this painting of shame, and you've brought a motion to correct it. I mean, you really like it, you know, just to see if it's gonna be any good. You raise it from 145 liras to about 200 liras. 200 lira, guys, think about it. What do you do with this 200 lira for a month? It's only $200. You're subtracting from 145 liras to 200 liras. Now, my state has nothing to say if it can't look at people who are poor, needy, 65 years old, but put your hand on your conscience, in an environment where most of Turkey's income goes from half to one percent, and less than half to 99 percent is distributed in an environment where poor people are left alone, needy, and 200 liras a month? We're about to make a motion, and we're going to tell these people that we're going to give 600 lira to people who are homeless, poor, 65 years old. There's not a lot of them, but the number of them won't shake us very much. The number of these is much, much less than the amount of money that people who have come to a place of corruption have. So, come on, let's all take care of the motion we're about to make together, and let's not see too much of the 600 lira money for these people, with all of us in common. You say we'll pay 700 lira. The crown is yours. But we've done our math, and we've determined that 600 lira can be given to these people without too much destabilization of our country. Dear friends, we're looking at social government. The Constitution states that the Republic of Turkey is a secular, democratic and social law state. See, that word "social" is called "state father" in public. If you don't surround our people with a sense of social state, a sense of state, then of course you'll pay the political price. So I'd like you to support our motion, the motion we're about to make. Of course, not only are the elderly, but the conscience-wounding part of our society, children, disabled women, are also extremely vulnerable and vulnerable to this scope. Of course, we'll have to take care of these. If you include the disabled and the disabled, you'll be the head of the law and we'll unify our laws. But I would also like to say with shame that by lowering the scores of the disabled reports given to the disabled, we are living in an environment where we have paid before, where we have reduced the score of countless disabled people who have been paid by our government, who have been rejected from their salaries. In the same way, we've come to a situation where, in order to get a disabled pension, our people with disabled children, if only you'd been a little more disabled, you'd made fun of the care-needed salary. It's very, very painful for a parent to say that. But in order to get a penny more, even the child has to be two points more disabled, a citizen, unfortunately, has to accept it. You're all getting calls. Every day, no exceptions, Mr. Hodja, please help us, we'll renew our child's disability report. Look, they don't want us to get a report they don't deserve. Only our citizens who deserve it, but have not recovered from disability because of the scores you've dropped, are begging us. So, we're going to take care of these fragile parts of society. If you don't own them, don't worry, we, in the power of the Republican People's Party, will take care of both the pensioner and the disabled and the homeless and the 65-year-old, and we will keep them where they deserve to live. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0118par0285	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Any other requests? No. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause added to the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill should be changed in the following way. Aytüğtor Ali Haydar Öker Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Free Special THE LAST MADDE... - 22/12/2014 and the 2015 Central Management Budget Law No. 6583 added to K Cetvellin IV. The "1.751" indicator for months bound or bound according to the 1st article of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Unwanted Turkish Citizens is applied between 1/7/2015-31/12/2015 between the dates of "7.015" and 1/7/2015/12/2015. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the temporary clause added to the current Bill of Law, we propose and propose that the declaration of the agreement be replaced as.2.332,3,152. Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0119par0304	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0118par0305	Mr. Erkan Akçay, the Manisa MP, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0120par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With this motion, we aim to increase the additional number of indicators from 2.332 to 3,152. Now, as long as this poverty situation continues, the amount of the specified indicators will be tied monthly according to the current procedure and will be linked to our citizens from $138 to $185, as of July 1, 2015. So our needy citizens are getting a 47 lira raise, according to what we're doing. It is recommended that the additional number of indicators be raised from 2.332 to 3,152, and will be raised to 250 lira per month, which will be tied to our current citizens. Now, valuable lawmakers, as our National Movement Party, our primary objective in this bill talks is to compromise. So we've come with a modest suggestion that both the government and the government will come as close as they can to this compromise. There's a great benefit in accepting this motion because our goal is to compromise. In fact, this number has to be more, at least half the minimum wage we have to accept together because these numbers are very low. He's going to be needy and over 65 years old and he's going to be a weak and homeless Turkish citizen, and that's going to be $185, tops, which is not acceptable. Prior to that, there have been arrangements, such as the arrangement of this bag, as we have expressed in the law. If we're going to make an adjustment, we're going to make a improvement, there's a great deal of use in doing it properly. As they say, let the stone that you cast touch the bird that you frighten. As if, it is necessary to do so. Now, there's a problem with the disabled. As you know, tens of thousands of our citizens, especially because of their home care allowance tests, are concerned, and soon our citizens who are unable to pass this income test will be cut off from their home care allowances for disabled citizens. This shouldn't be cut either. This is Law 2828, and in connection with this, the requirement for a review of Section 2014/07 and for a home care allowance must also be brought to more reasonable, reasonable levels. Otherwise, the number of citizens who benefit will remain at a minimum. There's an application of income testing far from the truth. Finally, my dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has made such claims about social policy during its 12 years of power, but Law 2022 -- the pension of old -- is a law that entered into force in 1975. The Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation, which provides various benefits, was established in 1985, and the application of green cards is an arrangement that was introduced in 1992. In fact, the architect of these arrangements was not the Justice and Development Party government. There is a measure of improvement in aid to disabled persons. I wish you all the satisfaction of our motion.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0121par0316	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause added to the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill should be changed in the following way. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends THE LAST MADDE... - It's dated 22/12/2014, and number 6583, 2015 Central Management Budget Law added to the K Cetvellin IV. The "1.751" indicator for months bound or bound according to the 1st article of the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Unwanted Turkish Citizens is applied between 1/7/2015-31/12/2015 between the dates of "7.015" and 1/7/2015/12/2015. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0122par0326	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0121par0327	Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0123par0329	Mr. President, I made my first speech in the 24th term on November 2, 2011. In that speech, I thought it would be a good idea for Mr. Speaker to imitate two female vice presidents by highlighting some of his illegal practices. Indeed, some legislature activities were carried out in the 24th century at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by illegal means, but the parliamentary sessions under Mr. Coral Akşener and Mr. Şeşal Mumcu were based on a principle of complete neutrality and rule of law. I'm so glad I wasn't wrong about this vision. Thank you and thank you for giving us this honor. At 28/3/2012, I made my assessments of 4+4+4, and at 2/11/2011, I stressed: After thirty-eight years of public service, I thought it was time to take part in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to be the voice of common sense, to speak the truth without fear of anyone, without hesitation. Today, I have the honor and happiness of remaining faithful to my word, which I consider to be the final combination of the 24th century. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are envisioned in 2015 as $145.81 a month in senior months. If we apply the 1.751 coefficient to the officer's coefficient today, we get this number, but in a country where the hunger limit is $1.301, the poverty limit is $1.587, these numbers don't match the measure of mercy. Likewise, between 40 and 69 per cent of our disabled citizens can receive $437 per month with 3.240 coefficients, while the disabled can also receive $437 per month at 4860 coefficient. Our proposal is to raise the coefficient of 1,751 to 7015, and pay 600 lira a month to our needy citizens over the age of 65. In the same way, we recommend that those who are disabled between 40 and 69 per cent increase their coefficient to 9,000, instead of 3.240 coefficients, to 4,860 for the disabled in need of care. The AKP's government is attempting to create a 25-cent perception for the five-cent increase it will implement months later. It's due on July 1st, and our Finance Minister doesn't think it's appropriate! On July 1st, the current Finance Minister will not be Minister of Finance. Ahmet Davutoglu, who is currently not Prime Minister, will not be able to be Prime Minister. The Republican People's Party will be the government, which will relieve huge income and citizens' groups. Hopefully, after June 7th, the Republican People's Party's public staff will make the public's hopes come true. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] For those who will contribute to this process, I ask God for ease and respect those who deserve it.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0124par0338	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I submit to your votes for the temporary new clause: those who accept... those who refuse... accepted and thus acquired a temporary new substance. There's a motion on Article 88, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of (a) bendi to the 88th Article of Law Bill 687, which is currently in session, and that other dams be identified accordingly. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Levent Gök Cemalettin Lightning Erol Dora Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mine Lök White "a) on the date of publication of Article 48 from 01/10/2008," Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, with your permission, I'd like to make a small statement. Sure, go ahead. The provision of Article 48, which is included in the motion, referred to yesterday's talks by the second amendment, which is considered to be the subject of the new clause after Article 47. The article stipulates the removal of the second joke (b) of Article 80 of Law 5510. The currently processed motion sets the date of this verdict's execution. With that explanation, I commend you. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0125par0354	We agree.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit04spe0124par0355	I'm having him read his motive: In an effort to make the transactions more practical, the real person was intended to be removed from force from the second joke of Article 80 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 5510 (b) in order to eliminate the inequality between the tradesman and the company's partner, prevent non-registership, and compensate for their insuranceed losses due to the creation of a previous bonus debt. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 88th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 88th article has been accepted. I submit Article 89 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 89 is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0124par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 91st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, the government has a request according to Article 89 of the Civil Charter on renegotiation of Articles 34, 35, 41 and 88. The presidency will grant this request. I'm having the advisory board read the government's motion to revisit Articles 34, 35, 41 and 88: The request of the Government for the renegotiate of Articles 34, 35, 41 and 88, adopted in the 90th Union of the General Assembly of Law Bill 687, under Article 89 of Internal Law and Social Security. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Aytuğ Atcı Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Instead of acting president of the group, Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The counsel board's opinion has been presented to your knowledge. Now I'm going to read the government's request and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and renegotiate the 34, 35, 41, and 88 of the 687 Numbered Bill of Law under Article 89. Minister of Labor and Social Security The bill has been motioned to be reorganised in accordance with the law regulation technique of Articles 34, 35, 41 and 88, and to reduce the scope of the sentence for working at night in the scope of the public interest and to re-organise the criminal activities related to building control. I submit the government's request to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In this case, I am renegotiating Articles 34, 35, 41, and 88. The 34th article had already been removed from the bill. Now, does anyone want a word on the 34th amendment to renegotiation? No. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34, which was removed from the draft text in the 90th Union of the General Assembly, dated 3.4.2015, be reorganised as follows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Bornt Turan Ramadan Can Tülay Kaynarca "The fourth joke (f) of Article 2 of the Law on Building Control, dated 34-29/6/2001 and 4708 has been changed in the following way. "f) In the workplace, to check that I have been conducted in accordance with the health safety plan, which must be organised according to work health and safety legislation, and to warn the building contractor in writing to take the necessary measures, to report the situation to the relevant Department of Labor and Business if caution is not followed." Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, sir. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0126par0046	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0124par0047	I'm reading the reason: Building control agencies have been tasked to supervise the work in accordance with the health and safety plan and the approved structure project at work, to warn the building contractor in writing to take the necessary measures for occupational health and safety, if the situation is not obeyed, to report to the Office of Labor and Business Affairs. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 34: Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I am renegotiating Article 35. Vocabulary? No. There's a motion on it, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 90th Union of the General Assembly, dated 3.4.2015, of the current 687 rows of the Law Bill, we propose and propose that the 35th Amendment removed from the Tasan text be redacted in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Ramadan Can Bornt Turan Tülay Kaynarca Article 8 of the Law No. 35-4708 has been changed as follows, along with the title of Article 8 of the Law. MADDE 8- The following administrative sanctions are applied according to the conditions of the verbs and conditions that have been determined by the Constitution and by the legislation. A) It is understood that control personnel are not on duty or that the building control agency does not give information to audit personnel in writing about its mission, B) There is a flaw or flaw in the definition of the document predicted by the issue, C) The fourth joke of Article 2 (b) or (f) failure to fulfil the tasks specified in Article 2, In their case, the assessment is about 10% administrative fine for the construction control of the structure's service contract. If the errors fail to affect the carrier system of the structure, the provision of the structure will be fined by up to 20% of the building-control service agreement, provided it determines that the fourth joke (a) or (c) of the 2nd article (g) is not fulfilled. D) If the fourth joke of Article 2 (d) or (e) or (h) or (i) of Article 2 determines that the tasks specified in thebents are not fulfilled, the detection will be fined by 30% of the building's construction control service fee. Building control agencies will be fined by up to 50% of the building control service agreement, if multiple penalties are required by the administrative authorities mentioned in the above bench, in accordance with the assessments for a job they take charge of. 1) It is determined that the audit service has been accepted at a low price of minimum service written in this Law, 2) In the case of finding the owner of the building or the deputy to receive a service price without being transferred to the building control account, there will be an administrative fine of up to 3% of the total amount of construction control service contracts for all the audit tasks taken into account. F) A administrative fine of up to 2% of the total amount of building control service agreements totaled in case the first joke of Article 6 is acted contrary to the rule. 1) If errors affect the host system of the structure, the fourth joke of the 2nd article (a) or (c) is not fulfilled by the tasks specified in the (g) columns, 2) The violation of the first sentence of the fifth joke of Article 3, 3) Three administrative fines have been imposed on the building control agency in the past year, In their case, the State of Emergency and State shall be suspended from taking a year's work by the Ministry on the proposal of the State Building Control Commission, after the release of the final administrative fine or of the examination of the sentence by the authorities. After the announcement of the first sentence for banning new employment, a second verb required to be carried out for banning new jobs and to be sentenced and declared for this reason, a verb which must be executed for the third time in order to ban new jobs and therefore to be sentenced and then to be declared as a result of that, the permit of the Ministry's structure control agency will be terminated by canceling the request of the Central Building Control Commission. While acting in violation of the second sentence of Article 5 of Article 3 or serving in the building control agency, the architects and engineers in the labs are fined 5,000 Turkish liras by the Environment and Urbanity State Directorate at the proposal of the State Construction Commission. The administrative fine, the verb and the state that requires punishment is issued and served in writing with defences of the building control agency and its interested ones following the detection and inspections carried out by the authorities. The administrative court can be contested in 15 days against administrative fines. In the meantime, the administrative fine will be finalized if there is no appeal. Objections are determined as soon as possible by reviewing the document in cases that are not necessary. The court's rulings on the objection are final. Processes for banning and termination of new employment are announced in the Official Gazette. The ban on new jobs is not in the way of further tasks under the control of the building management agency. However, it is not allowed to continue work by the relevant administration unless another building control agency is assigned by the builder to continue the construction work, which is essential to the banning of new jobs for the building control agency. In cases of termination, further structures under the control of the building control agency are not allowed by the relevant administration unless the new building control agency is assigned. The partners of the building control agency, which has been banned from taking a new job, are in detention; the partners of the building control agency, which has been sentenced to termination, cannot take an administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory institution within three years, and another building control or lab company cannot be a partner. The documents of inspector architects and auditors who appear to have caused three administrative fines for the building control agency are cancelled by the decision of the Central Building Control Commission. The inspector architect and auditor engineers, whose document has been cancelled by this means, cannot take an administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory establishment for three years, and another structure cannot be a partner in the inspection or laboratory. It appears that it has caused three administrative fines to the building control agency, and for three years, technical staff cannot take an administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory establishment, and another structure cannot be a partner in the audit or laboratory. According to the state and nature of the verbs and conditions determined by the State Department of Environment and Urbanism on the proposal of the State Construction Commission, if any changes to the personnel, facilities, machinery, equipment and quality control system, or that the experiments carried out are incompatible with the specified technical criteria, or that they are acting contrary to the provisions specified in this Law and its legislation; A) Warning punishment for irregularities detected in terms of administrative and technical conditions related to the quality system of the labs, B) After the notice of the first warning sentence, a sentence of 5,000 Turkish liras will be fined if a verb has been committed that requires the same kind of punishment and is charged with the third time after being sentenced and then served with a warning sentence. C) When equipment and equipment calibrations are not done on time or are not met on time, or are not properly collected fresh concrete samples taken at the construction site or in case there are gaps in the government's logo or in the sample records and reports, the laboratory is fined 10,000 Turkish liras, except for the lab's experiments on the lab company's coverage list. D) After the first sentence issued according to this joke (c) is issued, a second sentence that requires the same kind of punishment will be suspended by the Ministry of Ministers for one year of new jobs if a verb is carried out that requires the same sentence after being punished and served the same sentence for it for the third time. 1-After the execution of the sentence issued according to this joke (d), the execution of a second verb that requires the same kind of punishment and the execution of a verb that requires the same kind of punishment and the execution of the same kind of punishment for which it has been declared for the third time, 2- The fact that lab reports of experiments to governments or individuals suggest that there are unresubstantiated consequences, On the proposal of the Central Construction Control Commission, a permit for the Ministry's Laboratory Agency is cancelled and terminated. His contract will be annulled and his guarantee will be registered. The third, fourth, and fifth sentences apply to administrative procedures on the laboratory establishment. The partners of the lab agency, which has been banned from taking new jobs, are partners in the lab agency that is being sentenced to termination, and within three years, they cannot take any administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory establishment, and another building control or lab company cannot be a partner. The documents of inspector engineers, apparently caused three administrative fines for the laboratory establishment, are cancelled by the Central Building Control Commission. The inspector engineers, who have been cancelled by this means, cannot take an administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory establishment for three years, and another structure cannot be co-owner of inspection or labs. The technical staff, which appears to have caused three administrative fines for the laboratory institution, cannot take an administrative or technical position in any building control or laboratory institution for three years, and cannot be a partner in another building inspection or laboratory. Concerning vocational rooms report the result to the Central Construction Control Commission in accordance with its own legislation concerning the auditory architects and engineers and other architects who have led to administrative sanctions under this clause. The warrant will be revoked immediately if it is given permission by laboratory agencies or auditory architects and auditors to file a document against the truth in the process of receiving permission. In a job in which building control agencies are responsible for taking on a new job, you will be fined once for taking a new job if the fourth joke of Article 2 (a) and (g) are detected at the same time as acting contrary to the curve. If multiple verbs that require warning punishment for laboratory institutions are detected simultaneously, a single warning penalty will be imposed on the institution, based on administrative fines. If multiple verbs, which require administrative fines for laboratory companies, are detected simultaneously, the institution will receive a maximum of 15,000 Turkish lira administrative fines. The administrative fines issued under this Law will be issued by the State Building Control Commission's Office of Environment and Urbanism and will be paid within a month of the notification of administrative fines. According to this Law, the Ministry provides assurances in the process of providing a building inspection warrant and a lab permit. The type of collateral, amount, extradition, and registration of sanctions are determined by the regulation prepared by the Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0127par0112	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0124par0113	I'm having it read. In Article 4708, administrative sanctions have been set for building control agencies who have failed to meet their obligations according to the guidelines prescribed by Law No. 4708. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 35th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm opening a debate on Article 41. Vocabulary? No. There's a motion on Article 41, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request and propose that the amendment to certain Laws under the Law and Security Act shall be changed in the form of the declaration, which is not counted in Article 41 of the Bill of the Law, which is part of the 41st Article of the Law, which shall be adopted in accordance with the Law on Business Health and Safety. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Abdullah Çalışkan "Bkent Turan Osman love Look Tülay Kaynarca" Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0128par0130	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0124par0131	I'm having it read. The EU directive 2003/88 states that employees in tourism private security and health services can be arranged by entity over eight hours of the night's work period. Under regulation, tourism, health and security sector businesses are not subject to a seven-and-a-half-hour working period in the night's work, in a manner that will not exceed the weekly legal work period on the basis of the sector's needs, and that the employee's written approval will be limited to seven-and-a-half hours. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 41st article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I open Article 88 to the debate, and on behalf of the person I meet the request of İstanbul MP Sulejman Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0129par0139	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, we conducted a busy study together. I'm especially sorry we didn't hand over the rights of my stenographer friends. They had at least one shift, we've talked many times, but we've expressed it here, in this House, unfortunately, we haven't been able to fulfill its rights. Again, my dear friends, the subcontractor who works here at the National Assembly, our contracted friends have been very hard on us, and since we can't meet those demands, we're really leaving here, for this period. We've solved thousands of problems, thousands of laws, but we haven't been able to solve the problems of our friends who serve ourselves here in the service relationship. Again, we had consultants with us. The counselors were friends of ours, who worked for all of us; some MPs won't be able to come back at this time, and their workload will end. Every employee has the right to severance, but the right to severance for the advisors who work for us here will be closed today. We haven't been able to solve the problem of citizens of 4/C. This Parliament will be closed today before the contract personnel can solve the problem of the 4/B people. Many efforts to resolve these problems, many wills, especially with my friends, as well as Free Special, Kadir Gökmen Öğümüm... the motions we made there were rejected one by one, despite the efforts of my friends on the Commission. I feel sorry for it. We're going to say good-bye in this House today, and I'd like to say once again that a great injustice has been done to those friends. Dear friends, again, we have been given the assets of many foundations, community organizations, and we have not met our demand for the release of the property of the TSB-DER. TCU-DER was an important institution. All the other organizations, all the foundations, the problems of all the relevant institutions have been solved. Dear friends, another important issue is computer engineers, unassigned teachers, and again, without solving the engineers' problems. Now, you may be laughing at what we're saying. You'll see, by this time June 7th, the Republican People's Party will be seated. You'll see. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I promise you that when we come to power, it will be our honor to solve these problems, our honor debt. It'll be our honor to solve these problems here.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0130par0149	You don't believe it yourself!
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0129par0150	It'll be our honor to solve your future, your hard work and all the pensioners' problems. My final word to all of you is that the day of reckoning will come, the Aghas, the Pashas, the sultans, the queens, and on that day of reckoning, this account will be asked on June 7th. I give you all my regards, my love, my friends.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0131par0154	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. There's a motion on matter. I'll read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and reconfiguration of Article 88 (c) of Article 88 (i.e., which has been changed in the 91st unification of the General Assembly of the Common Assembly 4/4/2015, as follows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Kaynarca Sermin Balık "c) The first joke of the Interim Article 1 is on the date of publication from 11/1/2015, Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0132par0166	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0131par0167	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to restructure the ruling on the implementation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 88th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 88th article has been accepted. Now, therefore, members of lawmakers, the votes of the clauses in the third section are completed along with the reciprocal negotiations. Before voting on the bill, Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower will speak to specify the color of the game. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0133par0176	Bravo Hajji, will you accept?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0134par0177	I hope so. Mr. President, this work that we've been talking about in the General Assembly has really taught us a lot. In fact, this is a three-day study that only the General Assembly has seen. Prior to that, in the lower commission phase, in the Commission phase, in the talks outside the Commission, even in lobbying work, full field politics was implemented. I mean, really, our friends like me, whose political lives are short, have learned a lot from this study, and we've learned a lot. This law, frankly, taught us how to do politics, and how to make law without fighting, without fighting, without hurting each other, showed us this. So I express my own satisfaction that I have been involved in the work of this bill. A lot of changes have been made with this bill, but what we're most interested in is that it's not in the bill, it's added, or it's harmful. For example, there were no living rooms on this bill, and it was accepted by us. Again, the rights of our miners, who were martyrs in this bill, were being renewed. After 2003, all of our fallen miners were given the rights of our martyrs in Soma and Ermenek. Again, non-payment for miners will be paid by the employer through the TMSF with a clause added to this bill. Again, one issue that is not in the law is that the problems of our citizens, who were victims of the earthquake, have been largely resolved. There were harmful substances in the law, which were removed. There was remote work, it was removed. Even as a result of the warnings, the worker had to be terminated, removed. Sir, we had the rights of our citizens in traffic accidents, which was removed. As for the unions, there were situations in which the 5-6 trade unions were almost defunct because they were under the dam, all of which were removed, cleaned, cleaned up, and somehow passed the law as a result of long struggles. We also have two apologies for this law: the first one is one of the pensioners. The pensioners' 15 per cent cuts could only be reduced to 10 per cent, needed to go down to zero. We owe them an apology. Don't worry, we'll make up for that apology in CHP power. Again, we owe our citizens over 65 years of age an apology, and we couldn't make them happy about that law. Don't let them worry again. We'll solve their problems in CHP power. We have reached the end of the 24th century, my dear friends, and we have experienced many painful and sweet experiences in this period. I thank all my fellow lawmakers who contribute freely to law enforcement, and thank you very much to our advisers who have supported us day and night in our work; to the fans, stenographers, the technical staff who have made our work easier, the teamakers, the cleaning staff, the cooks, the photographers, the law experts, all of our staff; and I thank you very much, to the reporters who have been following us very carefully; to the families who have given us great tolerance, and to the people who have neglected us, and to the people who have chosen us, and I thank you very much. If I hurt anyone without realizing it, I ask forgiveness and respect.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0135par0186	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaçoglu, you've entered the system; you want to speak now?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0136par0188	I want it now, about the last thing.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0135par0189	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0136par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, there has been an important law that includes the health and work safety of a very important part of society -- some of them, some of them -- that is, about those who are over 65 years old, especially those who have been cut off in the work of pensioners -- that is, in general, more than a few issues, a law passed. Of course, let's take it from Soma, another team... in fact, in the accident that occurred in Soma, many of the issues involved in the lack of living rooms were included in this law. Mr. Secretary, of course, is the most influential person to have this law come out in agreement, and we thank him, along with his other team. There's been a lot of compromises on a lot of issues, there's been some areas we haven't been able to compromise, but I think they'll be moved to a better place with the new power. In this regard, I wish the law to be good for our employees. If we've broken our friends in a series of painfully sweet events, we apologize to them for breaking it. But everyone should know that we did it for Turkey, so we fought for the Turkish nation. From our point of view, we put up a fight against those who were wronged. Thus, our efforts were only for the Turkish nation, which had been carried out on the basis of our mission to the legislature. We also thank Mr. President, who has led the House in a calm, positive and unnerving manner, and we also thank him, and I want to make it very clear that we will say yes to this law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0137par0196	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0138par0198	Mr. President, thank you, too. A tense opening of the Parliament is the final round of the 24th term, with the ongoing legislature and a law that political parties have reached largely a compromise in the last few days. Maybe after all the talks are over, we can say a few things from the podium as the group's vice presidents. But I made a promise that this law would be an example of the way the law works. It is necessary to thank Mr. Minister here that the law is open to partnership proposals by visiting political party groups before it comes to the General Assembly, as well as considering opposition proposals during the General Assembly, which has led us to spend most of the last few days of the House in this manner, with a culture of reconciliation. With their inadequacies, we'll pass a bag of laws with a lot of positive regulations. I wish we had completed these legislature activities in four years of Parliament practice, giving our people permanent solutions to the field and working life, but that was not possible. In the end, along with all the negatives, we find it valuable as the Democratic Party of Peoples to pass the law in such a culture of reconciliation and with positive materials that concern the workforce and the working life. We wish good luck to our people, to the workers, to all workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0139par0201	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The bill is all open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, under the Law on Health and Safety of the Work and Security Act and the Open Vote on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws: So the bill is accepted and legalized. [[Applause]] Now, to give a thank-you speech, I would like to call Commissioner Adana MP Necdet Ünuvar. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I salute the esteemed General Assembly. We've adopted a very important law, first and foremost. On the last day of the 24th century, we adopted a very important law that concerned the relatives of our miners who died in Ermenek, Zonguldak, Yozgat, and millions of people in Yozgat, for the good of our law. We're leaving a phase behind, painfully sweet. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Ayse Nur-kaplılı, Mr. Sadik Yakut, Mr. Coral Akşener, our members of the group who are here, our deputies, all our stenographers, our friends, the officers of the Laws and Decisions, the officers outside, the officers outside. From here, I wish all our friends a peaceful, healthy, happy life that will continue and will not continue politics. On this occasion, the late Alparslan Turkesh, who died 18 years ago today, begs for his mercy from Cenab, the General Assembly, and I wish you all a good evening. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. To give the thank-you speech, I would like to call the Minister of Labor and Social Security, Faruk Çelik, to the stand. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0140par0222	Mr. President, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. We have completed a very important law, a law of 90 articles, as a result of the 16-hour shift of the High Assembly. First of all, Mr. Commissioner, I'd like to thank the members of the Commission personally, all our friends on the subcommittee, and all the political party groups that have contributed to the General Assembly, all my fellow MPs. In a sense, as the last law of this era, I would like to express my happiness with the belief that we have added a compromise and a culture of tolerance to this law that we have adopted. Right now, at the beginning of this little speech, I'm... living in politics after death is an exception, my friends. In this frame, in the year of his death, I also cherish the late Alparslan Turkesh. Dear friends, in 1999 I entered Parliament. I've been trying to serve as Minister for five years and then about eight years. The numbered days pass quickly. It's been 16 years for us, and for many of our friends here, I'm guessing four years, and you don't get it, but the numbered days go by fast. It was a very meaningful year for me because I was the son of a construction master and for sixteen years I had the opportunity to serve in Parliament, to win this republic, to praise God. (Applause) Of course, I thank our nation, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, and our EC PARTY. The main thing is to leave a nice sedan under the sky. Politics is being done for service, it must be directed towards that goal. When I look back, I'd like to leave you in peace with a few things. For what it's worth, a reform like the foundation of the Social Security Agency has hit my Ministry era, and this major reform has been implemented within four days, five days, by the compromise of all parties and all NGOs. General health insurance was our dream, and during this period, general health insurance took place. An important arrangement, such as the employment package, has taken place in the functionality of İSKUR (ISKUR), where 50,000 people a year are placed to work, where 700,000 people are put to work. We've arranged for a separate law to be carried out here, which is not about occupational health, safety, and today we've made important arrangements to make amends. I know, I do. We've moved the institution of professional competence, not with understanding, but with a truly radical, qualified people working. We took out the Union Law, left that law of the revolution behind, and a new law came into effect. With the constitutional amendment, the Unions of Public Officials and the Common Contract Act were issued and legal changes were made. And what's more, it took place during the time of the establishment of an important unit, such as the President of the Foreign Turks and the Associations of Relatives. There has been an important law passed, such as the Ministry of Religious Affairs Act. There have been efforts to resolve the very important issue within the framework of the consensus of society with their aberration. There have been major struggles with the problems of our outcast brothers, such as the Roman player. With our proposals, perhaps more than 20, we have allowed the laws that solve very important social problems, such as Ceylannar, to pass through this parliament. It's all over now, but I'm in the belief that we've left a pleasant seda behind, and with the understanding that we've left all of you to welcome all of you, Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to all the presidents of our political parties, to all the members of our group, to our dear friends, to our future friends, who can't, to our friends in the House, to our special lives, to health and success. I give you all my deepest respects, and I give you my blessing, and I give you your blessing, sir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit05spe0141par0238	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0141par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 91st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations between the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization and the Government of the Republic of Turkey for Advent of the Central Agreement, and the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization for Permanent Moving of the KEI Centre, and the Court for Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 696 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the case of the economics administration of the United States and the economics of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, the United The adoption of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization signed in Thessaloniki on 12 December 2014 and Agreement between the Central Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization Responsibility of the Central Agreement and the Moving of the KEI Centre Permanently. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I declare the conclusion of the open vote between the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization for the Resolidation of the Central Agreement and the Agreement between the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization and the Government of the Republic of Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used: 236 [[x]] Wish Rise Mine Lök White Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report (IPA II), which is ranked in the 7th place of 7th place, in the Framework of Aid before Turkey and between the European Commission (IPA II) Framework on Applying Financial Aid to the Republic of Turkey. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 708 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AUDIENCE IN THE UNIVERSE OF IPA ICI (IPA II) AUDITION OF THE UNIVERSE TO BE CONTINUED TO THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY AND THE COMMUNITY OF DELICTION OF DUCTION AND THE CONTINUATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF DUCTION OF DUCTIONS (IPA IPA IPA II 2) MADDE 1- (1) was approved on February 11, 2015 in the Framework of Pre-Accession Aid Tool (IPA II) between the Republic of Turkey and the European Commission signed in Ankara. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the draft of the Framework Agreement on Applying Financial Aid to the Republic of Turkey in the Framework of the Pre-accession Aid Tool (IPA II) between the Republic of Turkey and the European Commission is a clear vote on ratification of the Framework Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used : 235 [[x]] Wish Rise Mine Lök White So the bill is accepted and legalized. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement on Co-operation and Association between the Government of the Republic of Sudan. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 686 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of Turkish rule and the establishment of the Republic of Water and the establishment of the Republic shall continue to establish the establishment of the Constitution and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Sudan, signed in Ankara on April 28, 2014, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, since we're going to discuss international agreements from now on, I'd like to submit an open vote to your votes for electronics in all international agreements we're going to discuss: those who agree... those who don't accept... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, it is a clear vote that the Agreement on bilateral Agricultural Co-operation and Association between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Sudan is appropriate to ratify: [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked 9th among the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Belarus. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Affairs Report of the Dair Law Charter and Foreign Affairs Report, which is in the 10th place, in line with the Government of Turkey and the Office of Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations, in accordance with the establishment of a Country Office in Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 11th place, where we are eligible to join the Electronic Transport Document of the Contract for International Transport of Things from the Road. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 12th in the Union between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kosovo. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 582 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF SERBEST TRACY WITH TURKEY REPUBLIC WITH COSOVA REPUBLIC The approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kosovo, which was signed in Ankara on September 27, 2013, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2 - (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the supplements of the agreement. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3 - (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, it is a clear vote that the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kosovo is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 246 [[x]] Wish Rise Mine Lök White So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Charter for Search and Rescue Services between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Azerbaijan. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 447 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AZERHURITH REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY IS AGREEMENT TO CONTINUE THE COORDINATION OF THE SECURITY OF THE SECURITY OF RESIDENCE AND SURVIVEMENT The Co-ordination of Search and Rescue Services between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed on September 11, 2012, was approved by the Dair Agreement. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Law Bill on the Approvement of Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for Search and Rescue Services is open to vote: So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of Turkmenistan in Youth and Sports Field. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 584 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONSIDERING THE CONTROL OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY AND ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY OF TERRIVITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of Turkmenistan, signed on May 30, 2013, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, it is a clear vote that the adoption of a Co-operation Agreement between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan in Youth and Sports Area is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 244 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the Republic of Kosovo, the Council of Culture Centres in the District of Turkey, and the Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Establishment, Processing and Actions of the Republic of Kosovo. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 432 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment, the establishment, the operations and the activities of the establishment of the Republic of Kosovo and the rule of the Republic of Turkey are being established in accordance with the principle of the establishment of the establishment of the establishment, the establishment, and the establishment of the establishment of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 14 September 2012 in Pristina for "Agreement on the Foundation of Culture Centres between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo." I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the State of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo have voted publicly that the Agreement on the Foundation of Culture Centres, Operations and Actions of the Republic of Turkey has been approved: ▪ The number of votes used: 259 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. In the 16th place, we will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of a Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of emergency. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 690 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF COMPLICATION IN THE ACTION OF ACTIVITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF ACTIVITY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, signed in Ankara on March 20, 2012, was approved. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, as a result of an open vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Bulgarian Republic's Government on the ratification of the Co-operation Agreement on Emergency Conditions: ▪ Number of votes used: 240 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. Congressmans, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan has requested a brief statement from his place. I'm fulfilling your request. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0142par0231	My esteemed President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we are now approaching the end of the 24th term. I first thank you on behalf of our government for all the laws and proposals of this period. And I want to thank our opposition parties for contributing with all their criticism and opinions. We've been through a really hard, hard time. I give thanks to all our Acting Speakers, to our members of the Presidential Court, to our commissioners, to our political party groups, to our Parliamentary staff. We've made 421 laws in this period. We worked about 3,850 hours. 2,134 verbal questions, 38,000 written questions answered. Sadly, we lost some friends in this period: Aaron Çakır, Herafettin Elçi, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, Murat Bozlak, and Murat Bozlak. To all our fellow MPs who have lost their lives, I ask for mercy from His Holiness. I wish that the next June 7th elections bring blessings for our country, for our nation, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0143par0237	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, and I'm going to read it: The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held on Saturday (April 4, 2015). Mehmet Naci Bostancı Levent Gök Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The decision of the General Assembly not to meet on Sunday (April 5, 2015) on Sunday (June 7, 2015) is that the final results of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's parliamentary election will be held on Sunday (June 7, 2015). Meeting at 00 p.m., April 7, 2015 was suggested that he take a vacation from Tuesday (including Tuesday). On the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, Idris Baluken of Bingöl. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0144par0258	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the warmest love and respect on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. We will have our final talk in the final minutes of the 24th century. Four years have been very fast and stormy. Looking back, it's like we've had a dream where there's excitement, joy, pain, nightmares, and we're waking up from a dream today. I wish we could fit the good stuff into this whole dream, but in the natural course of life, it might not be possible. The important thing is to be able to leave a few positive, positive sentences after you leave. The important thing is, once you're out of here, you can walk away from your people with your head held high and your head clear. I'd like to point out from here that I think that the lawmakers who did this are the happiest people in the world. Of course, we've had an extremely difficult four years. Parliament began with tensions, the reduction of parliament's parliamentary position began with the shame of the detention of lawmakers from opposition parties, and unfortunately, that tension reflected almost all over the four-year legislature process. Too late, that shame was removed, but I wish it had never happened, and as a disgrace to our history of democracy, the problem hadn't been written down. Again, when we look at this four-year period, I want to make it very clear on this platform that our people have been waiting for us to put aside a constitution of coups, and not be able to make a democratic, libertarian, civil constitution. Unfortunately, we didn't give a good test on democracy and freedom. There's no need to elaborate. We have enormous problems with freedom of speech, speech, freedom of organization, freedom of the press. Even the fact that the election dam and the internal security law, which could lead to the police state in the last two months, I think it should be remembered here as practices that will not be well remembered for this period, not well remembered in history. Of course, not everything was negative. In particular, the problem of headscarf in the 24th term of freedom has been solved, and we see it as a huge profit of democracy. We've been very grateful in the 24th term that the MPs who came to this House wearing their headscarf with their own faith, their own identity, are not the reason to report, but in particular, our intense expectations of our headscarved friends have been expressed here on this stand as a moral duty, because as a fight for women's freedom, as a struggle for freedom, we would expect that all of these years of our friends would come here and have the rights, the struggle for freedom, for all of this country's oppressed segments, for freedom. To defend the struggle of Alevis, non-Muslims, all religious groups, Kurds, all different identities in this country on this bench, believe me, it would be best for them, but as I said, we see it as a very important historic step. I'm afraid we didn't give a good test on women's problems. If there's a congressman among us who hasn't done the self-criticism for the murder of Özgecan, he didn't do his job well. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to solve the fundamental problems in this country in the field of ecology. It was not discussed, unfortunately, that the HES priests, outposts, fortresses, mines, and resistance to them would be enough trouble to address the agenda of this Assembly. I would like to welcome from here the resistance to the Travel Resistance, which began especially as a major ecological movement, and again against outposts, against the goalkeepers, against the lice, against the resistance that began in Gever. I especially want to remember the young people who died in those resistances here, with respect, with mercy. Unfortunately, we failed to make good tests on poverty, unemployment, hunger, corruption in this country again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, isn't it ten minutes? I knew it was ten minutes.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0145par0271	I took it as if you had a five-minute request.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0144par0272	Ten minutes would be more convenient.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0145par0273	Here you go, sir. Go ahead.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0144par0274	I'd like to express again from this platform the bitterness of having failed to achieve universal human rights values, especially in terms of foreign policy, the criteria of the European Union. In the Middle East, I feel that the dangers that have been committed in Syria have to be expressed here. For our country and our people, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this era's most valuable, most valuable work, the process of resolution. I'd like to point out that for two years in this country, if there are no soldiers, police, rangers, civilians, guerrilla funerals, all the people who contribute to this work will be grateful for history's work. But I wish this House had written down the names of all lawmakers in history with a final that would lead to permanent peace of mind. In the 24th century, we saw that the speech of the most contrary ideas did not cause apocalypse. While expressing the most contrary ideas here, I think we've seen at least in the 24th century, when speaking a few sentences in Kurdish on this platform, when reading several verses on this platform, this country was not divided, or there were no terrible regime changes in this country. I want to make it very clear from here, especially in the coming term, that I should not agree with the most contrary thoughts of the basic philosophy here, but that the defense of those contrary ideas on this platform should be adopted as a principle to the end. We have a choice ahead of us. I'm afraid we're going into this election again under a dam mortgage. We enter with an inequality distribution of treasury benefits and extremely inequal competition conditions. If this House had lifted it, we would have carried together the honor of carrying representations here in the 25th term, along with its contribution to our democratic culture, but unfortunately, I want to express to you the sadness of not being able to do so. Of course, there's a lot to tell, but I want to express in particular that no matter how we view life, no matter what our worldview, no matter what our different ideas are, every member of the nation sitting at this time is beating their hearts for this country, beating their hearts for this community, and trying to solve all the problems of these people under this Capitol roof. I especially remember the lawmakers who lost their lives during this period, Mr. Sherafettin Elçi, Mr. Murat Bozlak, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu here, with great respect.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0146par0280	You didn't tell me about the Samsun MP.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0144par0281	There might be some lawmakers I've forgotten here. I wish God's mercy to all of our lawmakers who have lost their lives, and my condolences to all our people. I thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Again, in the 24th term, despite all pressures, I thank all the MPs of the People's Democratic Party from here, who, despite the persecutions of the streets, stand upright in spite of the tortures, will be here next term, or won't be. We may have broken hearts during our activities during this House period, perhaps we have wavered. For all of this, he says that we want to be lawful with the valued MPs of all political party groups, that we want to be lawful, that we want to thank and thank the people of 78 million people of Turkey who have given us this honorable mission. I salute the General Assembly. Good luck, good luck.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0147par0287	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0148par0291	Thank you. Mr. President, we met at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on June 24, 2011, and we began our work under oath. As I took an oath, I vowed to uphold the existence and independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the state, the unconditional sovereignty of the nation, the rule of law, the democratic and secular republic, and the principles and languages of Ataturk; my honor and honor, that I will not abandon all people's rights and fundamental freedoms in the sense of peace and national solidarity and justice, and that I will not part with the great Turkish nation. We're entering a new era to renew this power of attorney to the nation we've taken over during this period. First of all, we thank all lawmakers who have served during this period and all of these MPs, the families who have taken the burden of the politicians, really, for carrying this burden. And in this new era, I pray for the best for them. Yeah, we're actually here. We have important things to be thankful for. There may be different political parties, but let's not forget that we represent an old nation, we represent thousands of years of state tradition. So, in this regard, I think we need to be able to grasp these values. In this regard, especially the Erzurum-Sivas Congress and the national struggle, we thank Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the state of the Republic of Turkey, and everyone who has served in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey so far. Yes, let it be the will of the nation that lasts, that our government may live forever. We were represented by 52 MPs as the National Movement Party. With 52 MPs, as my country and my nation, we made it our priority. During this period, we looked at the issue from neither the power nor the opposition. The values, principles, principles, history, faith, identity of the nation we're responsible for, all of this has been our road map. We've looked at issues in this framework, we've submitted our motions in this framework, in these frameworks our MPs have done very important work, they've done work in the General Assembly. I, the Deputy Director of the National Movement Party -- April 4th -- believe that we are acting in the consciousness of representing the Nationalist Movement Party that our late Prime Minister founded in 1969. We've only had one power over this, the people's law. What's more, we believed in the rule of law, we defended the law, and we continued our struggle under the law. We have always strived to unite in good, to unite in good, and to expel the wrong with our hands, with our votes, with our proposals. I'd like to welcome the MPs from the National Movement Party Group. What we really need to be looking for in this period is a good, good meeting, dialogue and compromise. We stood by every promise that we made before him, along with Mr. Mehmet Shandir, as acting vice presidents of the nationalist movement group, and we never cheated; in this framework, we worked hard to ensure that parliamentary work was for the benefit of our nation. Laws came out, we opposed, we agreed, we couldn't compromise, but let's not forget that the people who brought us all here represent the will of the nation, whether it's power or opposition. The majority of democracy, of course, governs the other, but it's clear and clear that in this framework, the whole nation needs a dialogue and a compromise in order to achieve its desires and desires. So, in this framework, we've all worked together, together, as a member of parliament, in its natural way, until the morning here. Maybe there are people who work here, but I think our children, our family, they've taken our burden, they've waited; they have rights. So when it was looked like this, we actually fulfilled our obligations to the nation that we are all responsible for, and to the families that we are responsible for, in the way that will bring us here. Eyes and ears will bear witness, sometimes there will be reports, but as a man who believes, all of what we've done here, I hope we've done good in the future, I call upon the Lord-right to take advantage of us all. So, today, here, in fact, when we're all working together, there's no doubt that we have colleagues here. As we have families, we have parliament employees; we have stenographers, we have cavasses, we have Laws and Decisions, we have the Presidential Court, we have the press. Together, I thank our precious brothers and sisters who serve together. We've got cops, we've got other employees, we've got brothers. Together, what we should really do is raise the reputation of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, to make the law of the nation superior. Let's not forget, there's no greater power in democracy than the nation, my friends. There is no other power above the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In that sense, we were all aware of that. I hope, together with our brothers and sisters who will come here in the next period, that we will meet together in goodness, in beauty, together with the staff that will be held in harmony with our history, our nation, its faith, its values, its needs, its needs, its interests. In this new era, I ask that the June 7th elections first bring good results to our nation, and I salute you and your valued deputies and their families all together. I entrust you all to God.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0149par0304	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0150par0308	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, who have given us the opportunity to greet you with respect and love, to be here, and the founder of our republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all his comrades, I salute and cherish them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, when we were elected, we were excited to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and to share this excitement, we shared on behalf of all of our friends, their excitement, their lack of presence, and we fought as the Republican People's Party in a process that could not be removed from the Republic's People's Party, no matter which party it was from, to be arrested at that moment and take the will and power of the people and power of the House, and we shared on behalf of all of them, on behalf of them, and as the People's Party of the Republic. Now, today, when we close our coven, we close again with four less, for another reason. After being elected to parliament, AKP MP Harun Çakır, HDP MPs Şerafettin Elçi, Murat Bozlak, and Republican People's Party MP Mevlüt Aslanoglu, I cherish and cherish them, their souls be blessed. [[Applause from CHP and AK PARTY]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why did we come here, why did our people vote for us and why did they put us here as MPs? First of all, we have the authority of the Republican People's Party as a left-wing, social-democratic party to respect work, respect human rights, honor democracy, ensure that democracy is carried out without all institutions and rules. In doing so, we came here to protect the equality of men and women, the disabled, the unemployed, the unassigned teachers, the workers, the villagers, the tradesmen, all the masses living in Turkey, all the social classes, everyone's interests, and to be their voices. We've been loud a lot of times, and there's times we've been screaming here, but you should know that even when our voices were loud, everything was for Turkey. We're all going on a ship together, as opposition to power. All we wanted was for this ship not to sink, in the direction of this ship, on the secular republic axis set by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, at the modern-day level of civilization and the best of the universal rule of law in the world, where the best rules of modern democracy are enforced, without unemployment, and in Turkey, we tried to do what we could as the Republican People's Party. When we shout our voices as the Republican People's Party, it's clear that there was a democracy problem, that the Republican People's Party would certainly raise its voice when the package was being discussed there, because its philosophy was directed at democracy and the modern level of civilization that Ataturk had drawn. Again, we raised our voices in male-female equality. Then we all raised our voices and made mutual decisions for the disabled. Again, we called them non-assigned teachers, we called them unemployed, we called them poor, we called them corruption. Of course, where they were, the Republican People's Party was going to raise its voice, our people gave us authority, power of attorney. As the main opposition party, we naturally wished that, in all the ways we'd applied, including the Constitutional Court, we would be able to control power in all the legitimate ways, to control power in every word we've spoken, to take the opposition's contribution and suggestions. The MPs of the Republican People's Party, which I have been honored to work with separately for this purpose, have offered 1,838 laws, in the interest of Turkey's citizens. Again, we gave 32,399 questions in order to oversee power, we took them and shared them with the public, and we shared with our constituents a picture, a picture of Turkey, with them. We've filed 19 motions, 10 motions for investigation. With the 1,744 research proposal, we have tried to make a modest contribution to Turkey's various problems, to contribute to the agenda, to the discussion, to the discussion, and to the development of solutions. Mr. President, we would like to not be governed by decrees like we did during the next Parliament period; we should not be governed by the bag of laws, or by laws called the basic law; nor should the law come out of this place. Look, here in a democratic culture, we accepted a package called the business safety package, a very important law in the culture of reconciliation, in which we all share criticism with our contribution and joint effort, where the voice of the opposition is heard, the voice of the opposition has convinced the government, and the opposition has convinced the opposition. Of course, our desire is much more advanced. As members of a party that says labour is the highest value, we find that the law adopted here today is inadequate. We want our workers, our pensioners, to be equipped with more social rights, rights, pensions. Still, the package discussed here does not apply in a compromise, but we did. We said yes. As you can see, when we do a culture of democracy, there are laws that come out, that come out here without a fight, that come out without arguing with each other, without speaking to each other in loud voices. But one of the major shortcomings of this House at this time was that violence took place here. I hope and hope that everyone has learned a lesson from these events. It is our basic desire that violence in the Parliament, one of the most challenging issues to the political institution and to the politician, will never, ever happen in the next term. Mr. President, we all have to work on this ship to raise Turkey's democracy, to improve the rule of law, to bring human rights to the highest level. We have to solve the Kurdish problem. We believe that the Kurdish problem in Turkey should be resolved by the proposal of the Republican People's Party, by the control of parliament and, of course, by the knowledge of parliament, by the commission of all parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this regard, Turkey is one of the most comfortable countries in the world where we experience other examples of conflictlessness. Because the Turk who lives in our country, whether it's Kurd or Alevi or Sunni, all of our citizens come from a thousand years of common history, we can never leave. When we take democracy, human rights, fundamental rights in national integrity to the top, we think there are no problems in Turkey that we can't solve, especially the Kurdish issue. Mr. President, dear MPs, of course everything is for Turkey, everything is for a peaceful and safe Turkey. The terrorist incidents in our country over the last few days should make us all think. We, the Republican People's Party, have made it very clear and clear that no matter where terror comes from, we have made it our policy to stand up and take a stand against it. Everything will be legitimate; everything will be with the political institution; everything will be in the culture of reconciliation by talking, discussing, discussing, discussing, discussing, even the most contrary idea. That's what democracy is all about. Democracy is not a regime that the majority condemns to a minority; on the contrary, democracy is a regime that protects the rights of the minority. Therefore, I have many of them. Without calling it legitimacy, we've done so with the work we've done today, taking the opinion of the minority, arguing, and agreeing in a culture that's the best way for our country to find them. In terms of the political reputation, it is our greatest wish that this issue, which is very important for the confidence of the politician, will continue in a much different way, much more enthusiastic and increasing way in the 25th term after this. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this time of the end of our mandate, especially our Parliamentary President, who is currently in charge of this session, Mr. Güldal Mumcu, all our deputies, all our staff who have helped us in Parliament, all the press members who have been publicizing our work here, of course, and to all of you, the opposition parties, the ruling party, everyone, and all of you, I respectfully acknowledge our thanks.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0151par0326	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Amassian MP Naci Bostancı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0152par0330	Mr. President, dear friends, I'll say thank you from the beginning, then I can forget. I thank our Parliament Speaker, our vice presidents, the members of the House, those cleaning workers, those waiters, the teamaker Ali, who gave us tea over there, the security guards, the police, who are everywhere, I thank them very much.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0153par0331	And ours is Ishmael.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0152par0332	Yes, I thank Ismail, and on this side is Ishmael. In the same way, as we finish the 24th term, I thank all the groups that we've served with here, their valued deputies, all of them. It's an end and a beginning, of course. May their new life be blessed here or somewhere else and have a good life. I'm sure everyone's learned the proper lessons from what's happened in those four years. Man, such a being, moves on by learning. The beginning and the end are each other's brothers. It was a fresh start at the beginning of the 24th term, and now we're ending it, actually, for another fresh start. It's called the dialectics. There is a saying in our ancient tradition that everything is opposite. The opposites form a unity: a brother of black and white; a brother of death; a brother of the beginning. Shakespeare has an immortal line in Romeo and Juliet. Romeo comes to Juliet's balcony and talks for a long time, and they don't know what time it is, and as the morning comes, Juliet says: "Romeo, it's too late, now go away." Romeo looks at the top of the date, and says: "It's so late that we can count early." All these studies, no matter what they say, I know, were in the name of our nation. All the friends here meant, meant, said, for the sake of this nation's future. Maybe our pronunciations were different, maybe our approaches were different, but in the end, we tried to talk about the interests of this nation, that we were individuals, that we came from, and that we could move in a stronger way to the future. I talked about opposites. The opposition, you know, is the caliph of power, which means the environment that thinks, acts, thinks, acts, acts, acts, thinks, thinks, puts itself in the position of power one day just behind power. The opposition is coming from the hospital. Of course, on the one hand, everyone will speak according to their political position, their position, but on the other hand, they will judge what reality is. There's an Iranian thinker who says that when I went to Iran, I couldn't visit him, in the book of Scary Consciousness: "We Marxists are Marxists." I suppose, when the opposition friends are giving us relentless criticism while they're talking to us on the stand, they're thinking, "Are we wrong in their conscience, if we were in power?" They're thinking, "What would we do?," just as Daryush Shayegan thought. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, anything human is within our knowledge. We are trying to replace ourselves with the opposition, of course, and the opposition is trying to do the same. And over time, I think we're a little bit alike, because one responds to a fist with a fist, and one responds to a smile with a smile, and says hello with a greeting. (EC PARTY Applause) Here we see, when we greet, we work beautifully when pleasant environments occur. Sometimes a voice goes up, a voice goes up, and then we all head for a tense environment. And it seems to me that at a short distance between this chair and where we sit, some friends are having such a revolutionary change, which I've always been amazed at, for example, by the fact that after two steps past the very angry speakers, they've always sat in their seats, making me think, "What is this?" But I think this is a little bit in Europe until the 17th century: Life is a theatre. With that kind of understanding, I think, people did so by putting a little distance between their own personal introductions and the representation of the nation. I'm beginning to think that everything that's done here has a real or symbolic meaning. When I look at Congress, dear friends, I see that everyone is a child of the people. Yes, and I am the child of the postman Osman. My father delivered letters, and my mother was Mrs. Elif. Actually, my story is the story of everyone here. I wouldn't have thought of being a deputy. I never thought I'd have a car, let alone a deputy.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0154par0341	Was your grandfather from CHP?
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0152par0342	But the republic and democracy -- that's what we owe, guys -- is bringing people's kids here. And since we're from the community, we're definitely going to fight, fight, negotiate, negotiate, negotiate for the unity of this nation. It's all in that dialectic, but we'll keep running together. In primitive tribes, certain words are taboo, forbidden. People don't talk about it, they don't talk about it. It's considered dangerous to talk about it. For example, they don't want to say the names of the people who died, they think their souls are going to attack them. In modern societies, we act with a sense that certain words will cause some discomfort, with a special concern for the primitive societies of which we are brothers. I think Turkey's over it. Everything that's in this nation under this dome must be spoken of from this stand. It is the primary duty of Turkey, where we are all part of a Turkey that is on the road to democracy and freedom. And please allow me to say, with the political change in the transfer of that revolutionary from 2002 to Turkey on the road to democracy and freedom, and with the support of the community's wind, and with the help of your actors, of course, the AK PARTY has a great place. Urbanization, enrichment, a more secure view of the future, all of which indicate that the future of this country is brighter, my friends. Turkey is moving forward. It's definitely on the path to democracy and freedom because these two concepts, these two concepts, are related to these things. (Civitas) means civilization. ▪City is the city. ▪Citizen is a citizen. It is the city norms, the Civitas (Civitas). When a country is modernizing, when it's urbanizing, when it gets rich, don't worry, there's no totalitarianism. There's no limiting freedom there. There are no judicial policies there. And those who have disputed such judgment, authoritarian understandings, enemies of freedom, these people from the people, no one, you or we, will not allow it, don't worry. (EC PARTY) So Turkey's future is bright, very valuable friends. We talked about what we learned. Sometimes there were reports from the podium. I'm guessing he's taught some pretty good friends how to do it. What do you call it? They say, "You've read so much, you've learned so much. In the end, what did you learn? He says, "I have learned to know my place." We're all learning to know our place in the end. The people themselves are the greatest teachers, and the people themselves are the greatest teachers. And if we all need to, if anyone doesn't know it, it's the nation who's going to kick his ass. That's why you put the crates in. And be assured that this is the strong wind of the nation, not the blow of the crews, which fills the sails of the ship we call the power ship, which we talk about a lot. That's why the nation's strong winds are full of sails, and the power ships are for the good of the nation, no matter who they are. I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0155par0349	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Congressmans, before we vote, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share my feelings with you. We have reached the end of the 24th Legislature. First of all, I would like to say that I am very honored, very pleased and very happy to work with you under the roof of the House, and to serve as Vice President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And on this occasion, I would like to thank all members of the Assembly, all members of the Parliament, including all members of the press working day and night for the right of public information, as well as all members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as well as our law enforcement and legislative experts who have given us close support on the Court of Laws and Decisions, as well as the members of our Parliament, and the members of the Parliament, who have delivered the work to our people. Unfortunately, Mr. Harun Çakır, Mr. Şerafettin Elçi, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and Mr. Murat Bozlak, who have left this period, remembers him once again with love and respect, asking God for mercy and patience. By the way, I condemn all violence and terror, wherever it may come from, and once again ask God's mercy and patience for all our citizens who have lost their lives because of terror and violence. By the way, I'd like to thank the political party presidents and my fellow lawmakers today, who are saying beautiful and flattering words about my way of ruling the House. And I want you to know how deeply those words moved me. [[Applause]] And I wish for all of you a healthy, peaceful, happy, and loving time, where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the General Assembly of Turkey are now and always the practice of universal principles of law, not physical acts of violence, but a place where ideas are freely established and always remembered. Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0156par0365	Mr. President, we know that nothing can complete your grace and finesse, but to show the grace of the House, a friend of ours here now, Mr. Kubat will present you with a flower. [[Applause]] Allow me to point out that Mr. Kabbat is as elegant as the flower. As a friend in his trust at the line of late Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, we are a friend in his grace and in his heart and in his reconciliation between groups and solidarity. And on this occasion, I thank him.
tbmm-2015-04-04sit06spe0155par0370	[[Applause]] [[The introduction of flowers by İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat to Vice President Şeş Güldal Mumcu]] Thank you very much. By the way, all those nice things you said about Mr. Kubbat, I agree with them. [[Applause]] As I extend my love and respect to all of you, of course I remember to vote on the counseling board proposal. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, we continue the talks of Bill 212, which is ranked in the 17th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, since it has been decided that there will be no commission after this, the decision is made, that the final results of the 25th-century parliamentary election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Sunday (June 7, 2015) will be carried out on Sunday (June 7, 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
