tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Karabuk MP Osman Caffeci, who wants to talk about Karabuk's anniversary. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on April 3rd because it's Blackbuke's founding day. I salute the High Council and our fellow citizens and fellow Blackbenders who are watching us on the screen. This is my last speech for this semester, too. And I'd like to ask everyone to forgive their rights, because there's a way to go and not come, and there's a way not to come and see them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, April 3, 1937 is the date of the foundation of Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory, the first and largest of our domestic heavy industry, in order to support our national independence with economic independence. Today, at the same time, is the 78th year of the birth and establishment of the republic's city Karabuk. This year also has a different meaning because Karabuk is the 78th province and the license plate number is 78. Dear lawmakers, our republic's greatest goal in its early creation was to support our political independence with the establishment of heavy industry. At that time, the state needed to prioritize the establishment of heavy industry. In order to do that, the iron steel industry, one of the national industrialization moves in our country, had to be established. The best place for this was Karabuk, and on April 3, 1937, iron steel factories were decided to be built in Karabük. In Karabuk, a 13-digit village in those years, the urbanization process was also under way. In those years, the construction of Karabuk Iron Steel Factories was given to an English firm, and the agreement also provided a fine example of the Turkish nation's firm's determination for independence. With the establishment of iron steel factories, Karabuk was the most important heavy industrial hub in our country, while he was in a rapid migration. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs Karabuk is a rare example of the city where urbanization and industrialization are co-founded in our country. In Karabuk, people from different cultures from all over Turkey have created a Blackbuk mosaic with a common culture of life. In addition, the fast-growing iron steel industry Karabuk has made Blackbuke the center and the school of iron and steel production, and the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory has also seen important tasks in the development of our country by building factories with technology developed by the Blackbuke Iron Steel Factory. Today, in every major infrastructure and many factories in our country, there is the labor and sweat of the Blackbender and the heavy industrial worker. When it comes to blackbuke, the first thought is iron steel, but today, Karabuk, along with its counties, has become one of the most important cities in our country with historical values and natural beauty. Today, during the Blackbuke AK PARTI administrations, the change and development of our country is at its full pace and especially the breakthroughs in the iron steel sector make us all proud. In this parallel, investments have been made and continued to reach 4 billion in all areas from education to health, transportation to sports facilities. Today, Karabuk is moving rapidly towards becoming a much more viable city that has completed its infrastructure. I once again remember the elders of that time, which led to the establishment of Karabuk, with gratitude and gratitude, and celebrate the 3 April Foundation Day of my Blackbuke countrymen, and salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İzmir MP Oktay Vural, who asked for a comment on the death anniversary of the late President of the National Movement Party Alparslan Türkesh. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are tomorrow the 18th anniversary of the 18th anniversary of Turkish nation's march to Hakkk, the great political and statesman Alparslan Türkesh Bey, who had long sought to live honorably with his country until the apocalypse. Yes, on April 4th, on a snowy day, millions handed him over to Hakk. My off-the-book speech today is to commemorate his precious memory. My respects to all of you. Yes, the late Alparslan Turkesh believed in the greatness, power, ability of the Turkish nation with unwavering faith and dedicated his life to this beautiful nation. On the political journey that he began in Adana, February 9, 1969, he said at that time, I invite you to a democracy sold for the price of spinach in the markets, not to justice, to truth, to a fair share; I invite you to the path of truth, to the path of God. So, from that day until today, for forty-six years, the National Movement Party has been doing its politics on this road. Yes, by stressing our nation's great stance, the late Turk said: "On the day when the Turkish nation will free itself from the influence of foreign currents and return to its own self-state philosophy, it will regain its quality of state, and will take its place over the nations of the world. No action that does not serve the idea of maintaining, raising, and sustaining the existence of the Turkish nation is legitimate to the Turkish nation," he said. he said. Recently, these warnings of Alparslan Türkesh Bey have become more meaningful as we see those who have despised our national values, the nation's name, the flag, the unity of the nation and the integrity of the nation, who have sold its sovereignty at the negotiating table with terrorist organizations. The concept of him is not a permanent concept as used by some politicians now; according to Turkesh Bey, the people are not members of the material sum of the members, nor are they members of the party that some politicians are using today. People are a physical being, from worker to peasant, student to teacher, shopper to officer, representing all of the shareholders of the same historical consciousness, worry, and glory. It represents the national will as well. His understanding of the nation is not a segregating, polarizing language, but anyone who feels the nation's innocence as those of us who are not. His understanding of the state is based on the nation that represents the entire community. He calls that understanding a national democracy. He has always advocated national integration and the goal of national democracy. Alparslan Türkesh has always seen the Turkish nation's way of ruling, the Turkish line of fate, in the democratic system. He defends the Turkish nation's understanding of a government that respects its beliefs, values, for the rest of its life. Thus, it is possible for human personality to develop and shape in free and democratic regimes. Free and non-democratic regimes are against human personality. There's no respect in these regimes, no human love. Therefore, we oppose all regimes that oppose the free democratic order, and we don't believe them. For him -- according to him -- the worst democracy, the best blow is better than the best dictatorship. As a statesman in love with his people, he also had strong visions. The destruction, which has been marketed as the "solving process," has indicated the scenarios of destruction years ago, waking up the managers. On this axis, when we arrive, the people of the country are brothers to each other, against their own people, against their own people, frankly, against those who create hostility by implementing a plan. The people of our country and the people of our country are brothers to each other. The openings related to this process will lead to Turkey's division and to want to divide a region, to ask for autonomy, or to try to create some kind of separatism in the form of democracy. We don't tear Turkey apart. That's what we're determined to do. Understand this well." That's what he said. So, today, we, as lawmakers in the 24th century, have been acting as representatives of this policy for forty-six years, under the leadership of our Mr. President, to maintain the integrity of the nation, to protect democracy, to keep the state alive. We continue to make politics in its philosophy. On this occasion, I give thanks once again to our late President, with gratitude and mercy, and I hereby thank the MPs for their duties in the 24th term to this case. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Vural. The third out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu, who wants to talk about power cuts across Turkey and the latest state of the electricity market. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. This is the last speech of this semester, and I hereby salute you all again. For all of us, I wish you well for our country from now on. My dear friends, I've been on this bench a few times before, and when I received an off-the-top promise, I asked our Minister of Energy to resign. Again, I took this stand to ask for the resignation of our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. (CHP clapping in rows) Why? You know, since Tuesday, we've had an extraordinary -- in his own words -- a power outage; it's still not been found, it's still not understood what happened. We've identified him, we're looking for motive. He uses a strange phrase like that. There's a minister who doesn't even know what's going on. You know, Mr. Secretary, he's been very unsuccessful with the mines. The miners' 301 deaths, the deaths in Ermenek, the accidents before them... they never succeeded in any of them; they only succeeded in comforting their families in burying the bodies. Other than that, I'm going to tell you what kind of failure there is, what kind of scandal there is in the Ministry, there is scandal, there is disgrace in management, there is emptiness, and I'm going to tell you about it, but other than that, there was a geneor. With that gene, I also told you that the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources was corrupt, that he was corrupt, that I had proven. I'm sending 10 documents to the members of the group who have taken it personally. I came out here and told them that those 10 documents had nothing to do with my claims, and that before my claims about 2013 -- before 2012 -- had made court decisions about 2006, 2005, 2007, and that he had sent them away. He can't run the mines, he can't run the mines, he can't manage them, he can't manage them, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can's done it, he can't do it, he can's done it, he can't do it, he can's done it, he can's done it, he can's done it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can's done it. I know there are far more successful people than the ruling MPs. Why do you insist? Another friend of ours comes along, runs this Ministry much more successfully. That's the way it's supposed to be. My dear friends, look, I have reports from the Ministry. You know, there's a pool system after privatisation. The manufacturers report the electricity they're producing, the common pool is created, where consumers are taking it. In and out of here, from time to time, there are sudden drop-offs and ups and downs. They need backup for these. The Ministry also has significant problems with the holding of these reserves and the auditing. As the Minister and Prime Minister have noted, there was a problem on Monday due to a withdrawal in the south, which took place on Tuesday after the fall in İzmir. That's where the backups have to come in. The government pays a fee for the reserves, between $20 and $30 million a month. It's supposed to be automatic for these backups to kick in. There are replacements, Primer These things come online automatically, they need to be automatically activated with software. All of this hasn't been done. A software that was given $2,750,000 should have started in 2013, but it still doesn't work when it should. It's such a mess, there's no such thing as trouble. I'm not saying that the Japanese engineer Kishi Ryoichi, who committed suicide at the age of 51 because Izmit Bay Pass failed at the Ashram Bridge, should commit suicide, but he should resign. There can't be that many failures. Where the Department of Energy is coming from, where the energy market is, is right in front of all of us. What's the success here? He comes in, he talks straight, he talks nice, like he knows everything, but there's nothing in the app. There are far more successful people in this group than there are in this group. There's no lack of production, there's a lack of management, there's a lack of will; the lack of management needs to be resolved as soon as possible. The Minister of Energy and Resources must resign. I give you all this opportunity to pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Selfwave...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0008par0054	Thank you. I'd like to complete my views on the Yemenic crisis with a few sentences I couldn't say yesterday. Yemen's civil war, in a way, is a reflection of the Saudi Arabia-Iran conflict. Of course, we shouldn't stand by and watch this conflict destroy the region. Turkey's mandate is to contribute to the smoothing of problems between Saudis and Iran without taking the side of one of the two countries. Because of its historical weight, Turkey is the best country in the region to do so. There's a lot to be done. However, those who ruled Turkey's foreign policy joined one side of the party without serious analysis, and jumped into the fight as a side. Once again, they are in grave error. They can't read the area correctly, they can't assess Turkey's weight correctly. I wish the Yemeni policy would change quickly without being disappointed. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0009par0057	Thank you, Mr. Selfwave. Mr. Yellow...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0010par0060	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, my precious Gaziantepians and our great nation, I have the honor of serving our beloved nation under this great roof in the 22nd, 23rd and 24th and 24th term. In twelve years and seven months, we've brought together many legal arrangements and innovations in public as the voice of the nation. Well, we're glad we could leave a nice little bit of happiness in the rest of the dome. I thank you for the opportunity to serve under this great roof, my first and foremost citizens of Gaziantep, and for my Justice and Development Party. Because I will not be in the new era, I thank my traveling companions, my organization, the members of the Turkish National Assembly, the advisors and deputies, my friends, all of them and our nation, who have always been with us during my mandate, especially to my family and children. I wish my fellow MPs success in the 25th term as I wish the June 7th elections to be a success. I entrust you all to God. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0011par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express my regrets here for witnessing that I've been in a more oppressive administration every day in the High Council, which I've been honored to be here for four years. The last example is yesterday's trials, the pressure on lawyers, the forced calls, the difficulties, the ignoring part of the trial. Another chapter is: Serious allegations are being made about training courses by the High Election Board and the polling board officials brought to life by the Ministry of National Education. In some counties, test training is organised without the necessary announcements, and the participants are certified. After allegations of a power outage, these allegations have already cast doubt on the election. The public must be satisfied immediately, carefully reviewing opposition unions' applications to the YSK. I'd like to report from here that we're going to be able to prevent all of these planned election tricks as a party. With all our people, I believe this choice will go smoothly. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0012par0070	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0013par0073	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is the last day of the 24th Legislature. During this period, we all know that my constituency is Malatya, and that each of you is working hard at the point where investments are going. In the upcoming elections, I believe that all of our lawmakers here will carry the sensitivity of this country, this country, this nation, this state, and the development of this state, I think it's best that we get through the elections in unity and unity at the point of development. In the 24th term here, I was especially happy to work with you as Head of Administration. I wish each and every one of you the best in your future political life.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0014par0076	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0015par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't give away my rights to those who attack me for defending the rights and the law of the people. And lawyers are the face of this country, lawyers are the keepers of basic rights and freedoms. Right now, lawyers aren't allowed in the Istanbul courthouse, they're not allowed in the courthouse.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0016par0081	Why wouldn't they be?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0015par0082	Is it right that our martyr prosecutor, the fallen judge, the prosecutor's police protection a week ago? Government officials are in the General Assembly now, and if our fallen prosecutor's police protection was taken a week ago, they need to explain to the public what his connection is to this case. Also, the courthouse is brought in boxes of materials, not run through x-ray devices. What kind of procedure did the Minister of Justice have to make, to explain it to the public about the officers who had a flaw in the delivery of these parcels, and my regards to you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0017par0084	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0018par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. While Karabük is celebrating the anniversary of Karabük, I also think that it is a day in which Ismet Inönu, who made Karabük (Karbük) Karabük, laid the foundation of the Blackbük Iron Steel Factory, and that it is of numerous benefits for us to remember Ismet Inönu with mercy and respect. Mr. President, there are values that make a nation a nation: writers, educators, sound artists. A nation is a combination of all of this. Today, we regret the loss of one of Turkey's stars, one of the stars, with the compositions and compositions of Turkish pop music in particular. Kayahan is among Turkey's faithful and unforgettable artists, with both compositions and lyrics, sung by many artists. With his songs, we experienced our youth and shared many moments with his songs. I share my regret over the timeless loss of Kayahan, one of Turkey's unforgettable artists. I wish him mercy, my condolences to the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0019par0090	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0020par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we have not yet said that the problems between the AKP's top executives, ministers, Prime Minister and President, that the government spokesman is naked or anything. After June 8th, I will explain how Ankara's parcels were sold and a hundred more headlines. But this is not Turkey's agenda; Turkey's real agenda is unemployment, poverty, hunger, appointmentless teachers, staffing, pensioners' problems, farmers' problems, education problems, bribes and corruption problems, and even serious doubts about the deep state that has recently begun to emerge. We want the government to go over these issues and not create artificial agendas by changing the agenda, and we say our people don't believe in them anymore. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0021par0096	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0022par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow (April 4th), the founder of the National Movement Party, the 18th anniversary of the late Bashung Alparslan Türkesh Bey's march to Hakk. And once again, We remember him with gratitude and mercy. Today, the late Basbug, who aims at a Turkish state and nation that has been developed with economic, cultural and political solutions that he proposes to our political, social and national issues, has the same history, is determined to keep the same state alive, live within the same borders, believes in the same religion, and has already responded to those who want to divide the Turkish nation into 36 parts. Again, I ask His Holiness for mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0023par0103	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0024par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, yes, April 3rd. On April 3, 1937, it was the foundation of iron steel factories and actually the foundation of Blackbuke, which the late Ataturk had laid the foundation of. So today, I'm celebrating the Blackbunchers. Sir, it's a painful loss... that our beloved Kayahan, the master name of our music, who truly won the Turkish nation's great appreciation for his compositions and songs, has succumbed to cancer. I pray for God's mercy, my condolences to his family, to the art community, to our beloved nation. One of your beautiful songs is Kayahan: I'm not afraid of snakes as I'm afraid of lies I don't understand this world. I swore an oath that I couldn't return. Therefore, in the direction of today's developments, I reminisce of him. Also, April 1 7th, Cancer Week. I pray God to heal all of our patients who have been exposed to this disease in the name of Cancer Week. And to all our citizens who have died of cancer, I pray for God's mercy, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0025par0114	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the past week, the member of the AKP's Artvin County General Assembly -- let me mention -- Hamza South, on her social networking site, shared something like this on her Facebook page, says that our mayor and the mayor are programming the special administration of the villages in Artvin's headquarters and the services that KÜYDES are responsible for. The demands and demands of our Mukhtars and our citizens in the villages must then be delivered to me and to the district and county administrations, not to the member of the other AKP General Assembly. With all due respect, the Artvinians are wondering: What people in the district and district of AKP are responsible for this, simply because of the vague expression used here and to the district administrations? If the AKP officials explain it, the Artvins will lead them to their villages and neighborhoods through them. Thank you very much if they shed any light on this. The victims of the citizens will also be relieved. In fact, we'd be more pleased if the minister explained it.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0027par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is April 4, 2015, the 18th year of the death of Basbug Alparslan Turkesh, the unforgettable leader of the Turkish world and Turkish nationalism. I hereby ask for God's mercy, and I give thanks and thanks, and peace be upon him.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0025par0124	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is a peninsula surrounded by three seas and has a shoreline of 8.333km. On the other hand, its streams are 177,714 km long. The total surface area of our marine and internal water sources is 25 million hectares as much as the total agricultural areas in Turkey. Therefore, the effective, efficient use of fishing resources is crucial. According to FAO Fishing and Information and Statistics Water Products 30/11/2012, Turkey's total production of water products was estimated at 646,310 tonnes in 2008 and 622,962 tonnes in 2009 and 653,660 tonnes in 2010. In 2011, 703,545 tonnes of water products were produced from 190,000 tonnes of breeding, and 750,000 tonnes of water were targeted in 2012. According to TÜİK 2011, the number of fisheries working as seafood provides direct employment to 37,747 people -- the Black Sea 16,486, the Marmara 8,240, the Aegean 8,678, the Mediterranean 4.343. In Turkey, where there are 167,558 hunting licenses, 3,996 of the fishermen work in Tirol, 8,720 at the mill, 2,752 at the tiro-toy, 288 carrier ships, 21.991 other ships and boats. The water products sector is also of greater importance in the value of exporting, and according to TİK data, exports in 2011 are 66,737 tonnes, 65,698 tonnes, internal consumption 468,040 tonnes, 228,709 tonnes, unappreciated 5,756 tonnes, and consumption per person is 6.329 kilograms. This data shows that fishing with such potential and sectoral volume only contributes 0.4 percent to GDP. In recent years, fish stocks have been reduced due to pollution in the Black Sea, the Aegean and the Mediterranean, common to neighbouring countries. Pollution is growing and poses a great threat to the interior sea of the Marmara Sea. It is vital that the search for national and international solutions to prevent pollution is weighted and protected and protected by fish species, and that all countries carefully obey the rules for the continuity of fish species. The amount of production acquired through hunting in Turkey is also considered to have reached the limit of the size of huntingable stock. Therefore, it is vital that measures are taken in order to ensure sustainable hunting in our country rather than increase the amount of hunting in our country, that the stocks be conducted in protective and developer ways, and that the conservation-control work be conducted with consideration of those who support the industry, the balance of supply and demand in fishing, and that sustainable fishing be maintained. In addition, the state co-ordinator for the solution to the sector's problems requires the cooperation of private sectors, cooperatives and fishermen who are organised in the sector. Together with those who are active in the fishing sector, we demand and demand that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution be carried out in order to investigate the issues related to the sector in detail, to implement policy and measures for the resolution as soon as possible. [[Balıkesir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] 9) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 14) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Malatya]] 16) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the reasons for the growing number of soldiers and police suicides in recent years, we respectfully present the establishment of the Parliamental research commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the 98 and the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. [[Mersin]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ardahan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Mersin]] 7) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yalova]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] In the last ten years, there has been an increase in suicidal tendencies among security forces. According to the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights, 818 martyrs were given in domestic security, while 934 privates and privates committed suicide in the barracks at the same time. In addition, suicide appears to be common among police officers who work 12 hours of overtime. There is no solid database for police suicides in the agency, which has been in place for over a hundred years. More than 600 police officers have been reported to have committed suicide since 2000, but at least a third of them have attempted suicide. I mean, on average, 50 cops kill themselves every year for various reasons. According to experts, sleep, food, seizures and work conditions trigger suicides that are being turned on by attention. The support of psychologists and sociologists needed to prevent both soldiers and police suicides is not enough. It is also known that there are also those who choose suicide, those who are disabled, especially among the soldiers in the privates and privates, because of the abuse. An arrangement under the heading "Results for Working Hours" of the Security Service provides that it can be worked during working hours beyond the requirements of emergency situations and services. Again, the 61st Article of the Law of the Security Service stipulates that police officers and commissioners will be given 24 hours a week. However, despite the provisions in the legislation, this situation is never applied in practice. Police and soldiers who can't get their overtime, who can't get their rest, who are overwhelmed with extra jobs, who are also affected by the stress of the conditions, while the public who is serving commits suicide is also affected. Their families are losing touch with the social environments of security forces who can't meet their friends, who interfere with their day and night, and are becoming increasingly disconnected from normal life. In recent years, reports that the number of suicides has exceeded the number of martyrs, the suffering of suicides, soldiers and police, family and friends, the complaints of military families cannot be ignored. The allegations that some of the suspicious deaths and statements made after the deaths were not satisfactory, that there were no necessary forensic and medical examinations are considered to be suspicious in public. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On July 23, 2012, we would like to propose and investigate the Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter, 104th and 105th Articles for the investigation of corruption charges against the Van County Disaster Directorate and the Van Governorate and corruption raid against the AFAD. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Mersin]] Two major earthquakes occurred in Van on October 23rd and November 9, 2011. In addition to the situation and results of these earthquakes, it has shown many problems, as well as many boned bureaucratic and systematic problems. During this period when citizens have to deal with many bureaucratic problems, some state institutions and some individuals have systematically used these earthquakes as an opportunity to get them a runt. AFAD and governorship are the heads of institutions where people should be able to address their problems after the earthquake. However, the situation arises in the earthquake process and later, while these institutions have not made the slightest effort to solve the problems of the people, they have managed to open up very serious doors to them through their practices. For example, on July 23, 2012, the corruption operation against the Van il Afet Directorate's personnel received significant evidence that 10 people were taken into custody and that 38 buildings in particular had been changed in the event of damage. This shows that some individuals within the AFAD take bribes from owners of the building, only considering their own personal rants, disregarding the safety of the people. According to media reports and column reports, the Van Governor's tenders for car rentals have been corrupted, especially through purchase of services. For example, the 2011/151697 tender registered on September 30, 2011, and 7 million 259,268.22 majorly priced Highways 11. Only one company participated in a year-long service tender at various construction sites, earning $7,199,820.00. Highway 11. What is the name of renting a car in 2010 for a rent price of $132,000 for 300 days, and not corruption? The purchase price of one car was $50,000, while the purchase of two vehicles was well over the price of rent. Again, tenders have been made that two tractors have a year's rent price of $124,000. While the purchase price of a tractor is around $50,000, the cost of a year's rent is more than the price of a tractor, it also shows the level of corruption. The extent of the corruption mentioned is more than a claim. It makes sense that the governor has not made any statement against these allegations. It is important to establish a parliamentary research commission for the investigation of allegations on this subject. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Friday/4/2015 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan and 30 lawmakers have been issued a parliamentary research motion (1167 rows) issued on 27/11/2013 to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the victims of the Trustees' pensioners due to the provision brought in by Law 6111. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Friday's Friday (June 3/4/2015), and held in the same dated combination of its talks. Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan in his favor. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0028par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs and the president and board of the Foundation of Retirement and the members of the Foundation that are watching us from the audience's desks upstairs today. Dear MPs, I'm giving the final speech of the 24th century. On this occasion, I salute Parliament once again. (CHP turns to applause) I hereby apologize to my friends, who I've offended without knowing in our talks over the past four years, and I ask them to grant them their rights. My fellow lawmakers, there are serious problems with the Bank of Foundations pensions, there are victims. A long time ago, I downloaded this Parliament's motion for research into Parliament, which has led to today. And in that sense, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and thanks to Mr. Levent, our vice president, Mr. Levent, on the floor of the House. My dear friends, the Foundation for Retirement and Help is established by the Bank of Foundations of Turkey in 1957. Since it was founded in 1957, he's got about 9,000, 10,000 pensioners, almost 10,000 pensioners, my dear friends. A social welfare agency is an institution for pension, in the same way that the USSR will provide benefits to other pensioners, who are co-hosts to the USSR at the time of its establishment. But in history, over time, unfortunately, there are some negatives. It's more than just a victim of 8,500 people, 9,000 people, 10,000 people, the Bank of Foundations pensioners, a globally, totally, 100,000 people involved. We have a problem with their pensions, their salaries, 100,000 people, my dear friends. What's this? Look, even though employees of the Bank of Foundations have paid about three times as much as they paid for retirement, we have friends who, unfortunately, have the same salary as the SEC pensioners, or even less than them. Therefore, to remove this bleeding wound, which concerns about about 100,000 people, my dear friends and friends, in a sense, needs to be resolved immediately. In terms of the duties and rights imposed by the Social Insurance Institution, the Foundation has a duty to do so, my dear friends. In the next crisis of 2001, 2000, the chest's general board changed its social security premium and pension bonding ceiling. So, when the ceiling was the highest public servant's salary, it was lowered to the SEC ceiling. It's one of the biggest problems. My dear friends have decided to transfer the crates to this institution in the S.G.K. arrangement. TÜFE increases to SEC pensioners on the 4447/38th matter -- one of the most important problems -- were not reflected in Vokifbank pensioners from 1/7/2002 to 1/1/2005. We've got a three-year-old victimic situation. Although other pensioners have had TÜFE increases in this regard, the Foundations Bank pensioners have suffered a profound loss, especially among those dates. My dear friends, on the other hand, some pensioners have filed lawsuits in the judicial court to address these cases, and there are court decisions that have come to the Supreme Court stage, which have been passed through the Supreme Court, which have been financially final and even in the execution phase. The basic basis for these is that even though they've paid the highest premiums, the overpayers face a minimum wage. Now, my dear friends, one of the main grounds of this problem is that, as I've just said, between 1/7/2002 and 1/1/2005, there have been lawsuits in business courts, including the fact that the increase in pensions by the SGC has not been reflected, and so on and so on, the increases in the future period 506 have been under the rule of law. One of these cases is Ankara 2. The case of Ahmet Bal at the Business Court is again an example of my dear friends, the Glorious case of Zeki, many cases have been filed. Look, when these cases were being filed, the Foundation employees, pensioners, and pensioners also faced a situation like this: they went to a lot of lawyers, they paid lawyers, they paid their legal fees, they gave them a charge. These include payment of surrogacy fees, perhaps more than 10,000 liras at present value. My dear friends have faced a more negative situation. These Foundations have sued the pensioners and followed the case process, assuming that these favourable practices, which will be held on their behalf by law and law, will benefit them in some way. But as the cases continue, even after these cases have passed the Supreme Court, they have come to their favor, but have also faced an interesting arrangement with a bag of legislation in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. What is this, my dear friends? See, there has been an incident involving the Reconstruction of some of the Acquisitions 6111 and the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Amendments to the Code of Laws, such as the 53rd Article of the Law, such as a freak. I read this article exactly, my dear friends, and that's what's most interesting. I mean, people thought they could trust a court order, but with this arrangement, the court's verdicts were sealed, they were left in the void. The following joke has been added to Article 20 of Social Insurance Law 17/7/1964 and Article 506 with the following article, my dear friends, with this bag of legislation. The implementation of the first joke (b) is based on a fair amount of comparison in determining the lower limit for providing and binding aid. However -- the most interesting thing is that -- income and monthly increase are not implemented until the date of the period of the month, in accordance with Law 506. The provisions and practices of ballots included in the founding bonds of the polls are included in the 12th article of Article 5510. ▪ This sentence is carried out on the increases before the date of its execution and on the cases that are being seen." An interesting bag is placed in the form of the law. My dear friends, this clause violates the principle of rights, the principle that laws cannot walk backwards, the universal norms of law, and therefore, the interim Article 33, which is added with Article 52 of the law, as opposed to Articles 2, 38, 36, and 138 of the Constitution. The first article of Article 53 of the Law in Article 33, which is added with Article 52, has been stated that changes made by the date of the amendments are not applied before the date of the amendments. That's what the real law is, my dear friends. In the same law, it is not legally possible to explain the two provisions to each other, to present a contradiction, especially to those who are retired to the Foundation. In other words, Article 53 of the law and Article 52 of the same law contain conflicting provisions. Two different provisions have been passed in the same law, which will cause the enforcers to hesitate. In a sense, it's an abuse of legislature. The Republican People's Party Group has made necessary appeals to the Constitutional Court to address the victim's injury, but unfortunately these applications have not been met. My dear friends, as I've just said, the Foundationbank pensioners represent a population of about 10,000 people. Not just with them, but with their families, their children, there's a large community, a large family community that they're obliged to care for. So, if they're involved in a bag of law freaks like this, it's very important that the pensions of our brothers, the Foundation Bank employees -- and the current employees -- are able to solve these problems that have been dreaming of retirement for years, to live at least humanly, to bring them to a human level of income. The acceptance of a parliamentary research motion or parliamentary research by the great Parliament will in some sense eliminate the victims of these people who dream about the future. As I've just said, it doesn't just cover a number of low masses. My dear friends, they have filed lawsuits in court of law based on the law, and as I have just stated, these cases have ended positively in the lower courts. Decisions by the other side have been applied to the Supreme Court's appeal and have been finalized and have been established in a material sense. In fact, some of them have performed the chapters on salary increases, and they have obtained court decisions with the ability to execute them. Now, despite all of this, despite the fact that there are court decisions in favor of you, bringing a bag of laws in the same period... think about it, my dear friends, while the USSR retirees are working, paying 3 lira SEC bonuses in the same period, the Foundations have paid 3 times the same amount of money by trusting pensioners, and naturally, after retirement, they've predicted a reasonable increase of pensions, but at some point, the salary they've been given is also under the assumption of the USSK. In this sense, the Bank of Foundations pensioners are suffering a deep loss, and I say it once again in the great Parliament. In this regard, I take note of the sensitivity of the ruling party and the other party groups in the parliamentary group, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0029par0329	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Against Isparta MP Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0030par0333	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. Dear friends, as a result of the financial crisis in 2001, Banking Act 5411 was issued in 2005 in order to improve the banking system, to ensure the firm's stability of banking. In this scope, it has been decided that the banks cannot cover the gaps of their staff chests because it is one of the reasons why the actuarial balance has been compromised. On the other hand, with Law 5510, in our country, we have been provided with social security and a single roof of the social security system. The employees who were subject to the pension regime of the polls could receive higher pensions than pensioners who were subject to Law 506, because they were taking their pensions from the Social Insurance Agency, not from their own. This, however, led to a breakdown of the activity balances of these crates because their revenues did not cover their expenses. Therefore, the 53rd article of Law 6111 has been based on the standard amount comparison in monthly and income increases. With the same arrangement, the discrepancies will be resolved. The ruling was taken to the Constitutional Court by the Republican People's Party. However, the Constitutional Court has rejected the request of a mistrial on the grounds that a court ruling has not been annulled and that conflicts that could have been created from a different interpretation of a law have been made clear by law. The Constitutional Court's decision included the following statements. ▪ The principle that the law enforcement body cannot change court decisions means that it cannot eliminate decisions that have been ratified by law. The principle that the court's decision cannot be changed by law will be the only way to prevent or alter concrete court decisions without any changes in material law. Under Article 506 of the Interim Article 20, some organizations have been given the authority to set up ballots in the form of a foundation or association in order to ensure the social security of their staff. The (1)th section of the article (b) states that it will provide assistance to members of the polls established according to this clause, at least in Law 506. The board has been brought to the implementation of the provision that the aid provided by the polls should not be lower than the benefits provided to the SGK insurance holder, with the aim of resolving the disputes, which, apart from the amount of assistance, could not be lower than the monthly rate of GSK insurance. The arrangement has made it clear what should be understood from the current ruling and how to apply the material in line with its rhetoric and purpose, as it is stated that the lower limit of the help provided by the polls would be based on the proper amount of comparison. It is necessary to view this application of the trust chests, which underpinn the increase in benefits they provide to their members by the SGK, as an independent decision to ensure its financial structure and actuary balance. Thus, it should be possible for the polls to determine a lower rate of increase in the assistance they provide if they do not violate the lower border rule. Otherwise, the function of providing social security for members of the Ark's original mission will be compromised. The rule is not to bring a new application into consideration for the implementation of the existing legislation to ensure that its members' primary duty to ensure social security by maintaining the fiscal structure and the active balance of the foundation chests, but to ensure that only the assistance provided by the polls would be based on the proper amount of comparison, and the rule is not to be understood for the sake of public interest, and there is no anti-Substantial aspect of the Constitution. On the other hand, since the regulation to ensure that the monthly and decent amount comparison of revenues tied by the polls is based on the fact that it is being carried out in predictions that will also be carried out in advance of the increase in the date it entered into effect, there is also no violation of the rule of law, since it has been found that it has been adopted in order to prevent the rights of the members of the polls to be violated as the lower border has been wronged in the assistance provided by the polls. The regulations made by the legislator to resolve conflicts stemming from a different interpretation of a law ruling have been opened due to the conflict, and have been made to ensure that the regulation be implemented on cases that have not yet been concluded by the date in effect, as well as on the basis of which a court will be held, or how a specific, concrete discrepancies will be passed by judges, as well as an order and instruction to the courts in accordance with their judgment, in accordance with the Constitution, law and law. It is the normative nature of the rule of law that every law must be obeyed in terms of its dealings and its enforcers. In a state of law, every public authority must be used in accordance with the law, and the courts are obliged to abide by the law when they decide on the conflicts that come before them. Therefore, the rule that determines the fundamentals for which the courts must observe is not necessarily a violation of judicial independence, as it determines the discrepancies stemming from the help of the polls. On the other hand, it will be a matter of the winning rights of the cases due to the income and the monthly settlements, which will be decided in favour of the insurance case, and that decision will be finalised. The fact that there has been a lawsuit against the alleged discrepancies does not mean that the conflict will end in its insurance benefit, but there can be no mention of any right that has been earned for them. On these grounds, I express that I am against the Republican People's Party's proposal, that I am against it, that I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0031par0346	Thank you, wise guy.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0032par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0031par0348	Is that what this is about, Mr. Vural? I can give it to you later.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0032par0349	If there are any other speakers...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0031par0350	No. Is this about this?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0032par0352	Yeah, about that.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0031par0353	Okay, I promise you, I'm gonna take a vote. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0032par0355	Thank you, sir. In fact, it's clear that this Bank of Foundations pensioners are suffering a loss, but we can't change the decision of the court by law. Instead of the statement, I think that if there is a victim, let's take a step towards resolving this injury, and there's a ready bag of law. If there's a victimization of these, if there's an injustice, the court's decision was this, it's this, it's rejected. It's more about the right to look at the matter than to say something like that. If they have a right, I think it's better to take a step towards returning those rights. As the National Movement Party, I would like to say that if such a step were to take, we would support an initiative to address the removal of a victim. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0033par0358	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0034par0359	We want a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit01spe0033par0360	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0033par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Friday/4/2015 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Commission Report 713, adopted and distributed by the Pre-election and Budget Commission members, was adopted by the Council of Ministers and appointed by the Council of Ministers and appointed by the Council of Ministers. The agenda's 708, 686, 422, 604, 58, 582, 447, 584, 432 and 690 drafts, including 7 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 puts the order of other tasks in order. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0035par0017	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, in our proposal for the group, the seven-member elections available for the Court today, and other than that, a number of international contracts -- many of which are related to the Turkish republics and some of which are very important for our country's bilateral relations -- are to be discussed today -- are international contracts on the agenda. Yesterday, we finished Article 9 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, number 687. In fact, for two or three days, the ruling and opposition have been working very hard and all the views on this matter have been jointly discussed at the table, and thankfully, we've reached a good point. I thank our opposition, all our friends, who have worked hard for this law, very much for all of us, and they have had a truly constructive contribution. Hopefully today, after we've made this law, we'll see what the outcome of our work will be later on. With these thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0036par0022	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0026	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in the last days of our House, we are again facing an agenda of the AKP Group's last day. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, it is clear when the House will be closed, and the commissions have a date on which laws are passed. We're trying to make laws in a period of time that should be discussed in the best interests of the country, with a rush, a rush, a thorough study, in a compressed time schedule. As the Republican People's Party, we also have to be careful to see if there's anything we've really overlooked about this, and of course you have to be. So, in a law on job safety and job health, we, our business community, our workers, in the most healthy environments that have made their lives in this way, we are doing our best to make sure that the standards of our millions of citizens around the world are desired to have job health and job safety, but we are concerned that they will be spoken in such a compressed time, we are worried that there will be a situation against the workers, against the workers who have escaped our sight, against the workers, against the workers? In this regard, while this law is being discussed, our friends will share with you the Republican People's Party's approach to these issues. Each one of these is important and valuable. I hope and wish that by considering the Republican People's Party's views on occupational health and safety, we can find a way for the law to come out in the best of terms for the workers. Look, yesterday we put the living rooms in the text of the law. As the Republican People's Party, it's something we think about a lot, something we care about. In the search of the ILO standards and standards that the entire world has implemented in order to minimize the risk of death and injury in the mines, the Republican People's Party has expressed its views, and I find that the General Assembly has gladly accepted our proposals and the living rooms have entered a law. Now our mining brothers will be safer working in the mines. Why is it important that this be carried out immediately? Because human, everything is for human. I mean, we've never had the luxury to lose a single human being, and we can't anymore. Especially after the major mining accidents in the past few months, Turkey is no longer remembered to our fellow workers who lost their lives because of mining accidents and business killings in the world, my dear friends. That's all of our sensitivity because this news is not only heard in Turkey, but the whole world is following it, and we can't tell the world that there are deaths in mining accidents in other countries when there are zero, even at least a minimum, in Turkey, there are so many job murders, business accidents, there are deaths, and there are so many injuries. We have to do whatever's first class on this. ▪ What methods and bases are done, they will be reduced to a minimum, or even not at all, and we have to do the practices that will make them say: Therefore, with this precision, we follow the Law on Health and Safety, my dear friends. Maybe we're short on time, but we're going to share our views, criticism, constructive proposals, even in this time shortage, as the Republican People's Party -- by sharing our views with you -- so that there's not a single thing that's open to us. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, after a terrorist attack on Istanbul the other day, we unfortunately lost one of our valuable prosecutors, and there was another terrorist incident the next day before the destruction of this terrorist incident took place. I spoke at the House yesterday to condemn terrorism as the Republican People's Party, to issue a joint statement, but unfortunately, no agreement has come to me from among the party groups. We need to stand up to terrorism. The consequences of terrorism, the infinitive, moral values in society, should have been expressed by our Parliament with strong opposition and opposition. Of course, someone's responsible. On the one hand, the responsible must be determined, but we had to underline the fact that no one in Turkey could make a bonus out of terrorism. We couldn't do that, but we did this, my dear friends, because the terrorists who killed our prosecutor entered the courthouse holding a lawyer's robe in their arms, and today there are practices all over Turkey about all the lawyers that are too extreme and impossible to fit in any form. My dear friends, the terrorist, of course, will conceal himself. He can get into a lawyer's suit, he can get into a judge's suit, he can get into a cop's suit, he can even wear the same suit as the President's. I mean, now that we're leaving here, how do we convict all the lawyers because the lawyer put his robe on his arm and walked into the courthouse? Like lawyers, judges and prosecutors, it's one of the most important elements of the judicial process. Besides, everyone's already passed through the x-ray devices in the courthouses, but lawyers are being treated really severely. There's no way to accept that. I mean, it's like all the lawyers are involved in this terrorism. We can't accept that. I'm also highlighting that as a brother of lawyer's origin. We stand against terror. Now, what good are intelligence forces for that?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0038par0033	Mr. President, how do we get it?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0034	The intelligence forces are my dear friends who will identify a terrorist who has already disguised himself.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0038par0035	How's he gonna tell them apart?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0036	It could happen to all of you, it could happen to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0038par0037	What's the solution?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0038	The solution is an unpoliticized intelligence agency. If you bring in an undersecretary of MIT who is not a member of the AKP, it will be a solution. Once the security guards, the governors, the trustees stay away from politicalism, these are solved, dear friends. You can't have an Undersecretary of the MIT, a person at the highest level of intelligence, a member of the AKP, resign for candidacy, put in for a list of themes from the AKP, then resign again if you're an Undersecretary of MIT; that would be AKP's security secretary. There are weaknesses, there are serious weaknesses. Now we need to talk about this.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0039par0040	The President is elected in Turkey, and so is the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0041	In a painting like this -- look, please take a good look at what I'm saying -- the government is in charge of this security weakness, my dear friends. You still blame the opposition. Hopefully, after June 7th, you'll see how security will be maintained in the country. I mean, when there's a painting like this, when a Prime Minister of political power, the Home Secretary and the President who joined him blame the opposition, the power really has to think very badly here. Now, why am I saying this? Terror -- I want it to be the Republican People's Party -- that it doesn't create the morale it desires in Turkey. That's what terrorism is all about - a morale disorder, an unsafe environment. That's why we have to put up a stand against it. Of course, valuable MPs, national will, respect for national will, especially the words and concepts used by AKP spokesman, the President, the Prime Minister. The national will... when the majority gets the vote, you bring it back to this day because it's all happening. So, in the same speech, in the presidential election at Istanbul University, why would you elect another chancellor when the university professors elected Rasit Tükel 1.202 votes, and then one? That's the question. If the national will is respect, you will have a will, a national will, but when someone else takes over, there will be no national will, and the President will have the right to be appreciated?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0040par0044	Even by one vote.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0045	Dear friends, you have to decide on these concepts. National will...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0041par0046	It's dirty will, it's dirty!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0037par0047	Look, again, we say that national will is not a place where the majority has every word. National will, on the contrary, is a concept protected by the minority. You need to be clear once in a while about these concepts. If the national will is what you say it is, then you must elect the chancellor of Rashid Tukel. Now, we see AKP's insincereness, we question it. These are the words that we want to say, we want to make it a democracy in Turkey, let all the rules and institutions in Turkey sit in place, but there are certainly a lot of words that we will say in every law against the AKP's power that corrupts all of this, that we will continue to say, and I salute you with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0042par0051	Thank you, Mr. Sky. In the end, Eskişehir MP Salih Husband...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0043par0053	I give up.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0042par0054	Okay. Against you, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0044par0057	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the motion given by the AK PARTY Group. It is not possible to participate in the motions the EC PARTY Group has already made regarding the working hours, because there was actually a political courtesy, a culture of reconciliation in this Parliament, but unfortunately, within this four-year process, the EC PARTY almost -- in order to eliminate this culture of reconciliation and this political courtesy -- has continued to run the Assembly General Assembly in a way that will look after its own party needs, and there is the same spirit in the group proposal that was brought in today's group. In fact, the current meaning of the Parliament's work has been completely removed lately. Because somehow an understanding of the work of this House is being dominated, and unfortunately, Mr. President, it's creating this perception. Mr. President, the parliamentary system is on the shelf, insinuating that it's waiting in the fridge. With such sentences, there are heavy sentences about the parliamentary system at this level, and the current work of this Assembly is no longer valuable to our current practical people. The heart would want lawmakers from the EC PARTY Group, outside the opposition, to say that the parliamentary system is still in place, and that this Parliament is continuing its work in the same way that will benefit the public. But I'm afraid we haven't heard a single comment or a single assessment from the AK PARTY group's deputy or the AK PARTY MPs. So we're actually running a study here today as the House of a system that's on the shelf. We'd like to say that this creates extremely problematic perceptions, bringing serious debates about the credibility of the House in the public eye. Of course, this sentence, which puts a mortgage on the President's will of parliament, is not noted as the only sentence that contradicts his position. So if a president should be neutral, give me 400 deputies in the polls. If he can ask for a vote in the form of a vote, give me the authority to make the new constitution. If he's propaganda for the public in the form of a new constitution, then there are serious problems there, there are serious problems about the public conscience and the credibility of the political institution. But unfortunately, as I said, we've never heard of lawmakers from the EC PARTY, except for opposition MPs. Anyway, when you look at the general hours of the House, there's a practice that's been working almost 16 to 18 hours in the last two months. In these 16-18 hours, no one actually complains, but what we're complaining about is that there are no talks here about the laws that solve the real problems of the people, the laws that solve the real problems of the country. As I was saying, there's a general council practice that spends time with the needs of a party and, more often, some tactical laws to be used in the election. You know, the heart would like to spend the last two months of such a busy shift in democratisation and freedoms in this country, or if we had passed a number of laws on working life and labor in this country that could solve the problems of the workers, the problems of the poor, the poverty, the hunger, even if we didn't have a whole number of problems that have been created by a number of palliative solutions. But unfortunately, when we look at these, we can multiply the topics, and we can't end up counting the areas of trouble in Turkey. Unfortunately, this Parliament is filling in overtime with a bag of laws that don't solve any of these problem areas, carefully prepared, bureaucrats' orders. The AK PARTY group seems determined to spend the last couple of days like this. We want to rephrase that this is wrong and that this has created huge problems for the credibility of the House. Look, the simplest thing is, even if we can't do anything about democratization in the last two months, we could give this country, the people of this country, an arrangement that destroyed the election dam. Even the 10 per cent election dam, which the coupists have taken out and have sought refuge behind the ruling owners so far, has not brought the EC PARTY group to its own agenda in the last two months, not bringing it to the Parliamentary General Assembly. The current problems of freedom of press, thought, freedom of speech, again, continue the same way. When freedoms and democratization are restricted so much, the General Assembly can be tortured in the middle of the day in the middle of the street, with no effort for a legal arrangement to move it. You're the one who legitimized these paintings. If lawyers are subjected to police torture at the courthouse door, your practice here, which is not disturbed by this freedom zone, is guilty in the first degree. Again, you've all already written your name in history as lawmakers who have passed a law to the police state by bringing in a freak like an internal security package. We're going to discuss a law on labor and work space in particular. And we would have waited in this law, in the last practice of the House, we're dealing with a law practice about work killings, about labor exploitation, about revenue distribution injustice, but, unfortunately, the arrangement that's been brought in is something that doesn't even go beyond the materialized form of election tactics. So we're dealing with a working calendar that is getting further and further away from Parliamentary practice, which determines the real problems of the people and solves those problems. In this regard, the EC PARTY has been fully registered with the suggestions you've brought in the last two practical days, where the EC PARTY has remained in class for four years. The 24th period, in our eyes, has been a lost period in terms of resolving the problems of the peoples of Turkey, and your government and group have completely failed to establish real social peace in this country, the process of resolution towards lasting peace, and the establishment of legal regulations related to all the problems in all areas in Turkey. The public will now consider it in the polls on June 7th. After June 7th, when we come back to this House, we'll all put the public's decisions ahead of us, and we'll assess the Parliamentary General Assembly and what laws should be discussed in the General Assembly. We're sure that with four years of practice, the public will teach you a significant lesson in the polls. In this election, the EC PARTY will see a loss it has not seen during its thirteen years of power through this practice, thanks to this dysfunction of the General Assembly. Here, of course, there'll be fellow lawmakers who don't. And maybe we won't be in these lines of Congress again. Even though we thought that we had a dysfunctional and inefficient practice during the 24th term, we still tried to do some things for the benefit of Turkey's MPs. We can all look at different windows, different world views, but we're sure that our concern is mutual, political for the benefit of the people and the country. Therefore, we already think it's appropriate to have a general halalization process here regarding this 24th term practice, individual resentments... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We think it should be handled in such a way. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit02spe0045par0075	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to the decision, we move on to the part of the agenda. Congressmans, please, I'm going to have to ask you not to leave your seats or go in front of the cabins until I'm done speaking. The Court shall vote for seven empty members under the 15th and 16th Articles of Court Law 6085 and under the 150th Amendment of the Civil Code. The joint ballot, which includes candidates for the number of empty memberships, according to the quota groups set by the Court's Pre-election Temporary Commission, has been printed by the Court's Membership Commission of the Council of Ministers among the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, as well as by the presidential office. As long as there are enough meetings and decisions available, five candidates who have received the most votes from the Court's vocational group will be elected to the two members of the Court, who have received the most votes from the list of other candidates from the Finance Ministry. I propose how the secret vote will be held: the vote will not be voted as a covert vote. During the commission, the clerk will mark from Adana to Denizli, including Denizli, and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, including Istanbul; and the clerk from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin to Zonguldak, the names of the MPs who have been read, including Zonguldak, and will be given a sealed ballot and envelope. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The member who has his name marked in the name book and received the sealed ballot will enter the voting booth, and the Court will place the ballot in the ballot box in front of the bench, where five candidates from the quota group and two other candidates from the Finance Ministry list will mark the apartment across the street with a cross sign, and the Presidential Court will place the ballot in the ballot box in front of the bench. The ballots will be invalidated, marked by more candidates than will be selected from the list of candidates. This issue is also listed on the ballot as a footnote. Same color pens are placed in the cabins. The members will use these pens. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. I'm going to draw a name for the count and transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man commission. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Şenol Gürshan, the centipede? Here. Derya Bakbak, Gaziantep? Here. Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum? No. Ertugrul Günay, İzmir? No. Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir? No. Kerim Özkul, Konya? No. Smart Aygun, Bigeli? Here. Orhan Straight, Slap? No. Ismail Tamer, Kayseri? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? No. Selahattin Karaahmetoglu, Giresun? No. Hakan Sergeant, Bursa? Here. Well, we've done it successfully, Mr. Lawmakers. Now we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. Now I'm having the ballots removed. The voting process is complete. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Kırklareli MP Senol Gürşan, Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak, Kopeli MP Zeki Aygün, Kayseri MP İsmail Tamer, Bursa MP Hakan Sergeantoğlu. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, I have a report from the Commission on the Commission for Accounts for the seven votes in which the Court has been empty: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of the candidates appointed in the 713 rankings, 291 members participated in the election for the 7 empty membership in the Court, three of the votes used have been invalidated, and the distribution of valid votes has been shown below. It's presented with respect. Şenol Gürşşan Derya Bak Bakı Aygün Court Occupational Mensups Kontenjan Group: Fatma Betül Ceylan 61 votes Osman Safa Proposes 10 votes Finance Ministry Occupation Mensubu Other Candidates Kontenjan Group: Mehmet Akif Umay 277 votes Members of parliament, according to this, the members of the Court's residence group, İsmail Aktaş, Abdullah Şaş, Ali Özek, Ahmet Silver, Osman Kaya; other candidates from the Ministry of Finance, Sema Küçük, Mehmet Akif Umay, were elected as members of the Court; I wish them well. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 90th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The participation of a delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at a conference on "Global Alliance for Participation" in Nairobi, Kenya, was adopted in the 73rd Assembly of Turkey, dated 10/3/2015. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. Name and Last Name Selection Environment It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The International Institute for Justice and Law (IIJ) and the European Commission will organise the study on "Producing the Role of Lawmakers in Building Anti-Terrorism Systems in the Frame of Justice" in Valletta, Malta's capital, on May 5-6 2015. The issue of accession to the study is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly An event on 21 May 2015 will be held in Berlin, the capital of the German Federal Republic, on "the Turkish and Muslim Children's Applications of the German Youth Offices." The issue of accession to the event is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan; İstanbul MP Rahmi Çiçeli; İstanbul MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım and İzmir MP Aydın Şengül; Adana MP Ali Demirçallı; İstanbul MP Gürsel Tekin; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; İstanbul MP Nursel Aydoğan; İstanbul MP Rahmi İstılı; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Ahmet Ken Tankulu's 50 MPs; Kağeli MP Haydar; İstanbul MP Şeker; İstanbul MP Şiş; İstanbul MP Şişlı; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; İstanbul MP Nursel Aydoğan's Party; İstanbul MP Nursel Aydoğan'sınılı; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul People's Party's People's Party; İstanbul People's People's People's Party; İstanbul People's Party; İstanbul People's People's Party; İstanbul People's People's Party; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP and İstanbul People's People's People's Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP İÜ ÇÜÇİÜÇİÜÜÇİÜÜÜÜÜÇİÜÇİÜÜÜKİÜÜÜÜKİÇİÇİÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜKİÇİÇİKİÇİÇİÜÜÜÜÜKÜKÜKÜKÜKÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜKÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜKÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜKÜKÜKÜKÜKÜKÜKÜKÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜKÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ The commission and the government are in place. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, Article 9 of the draft, which was considered the basic law, was adopted in the first chapter. Now we have the 10th article. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in the 10th amendment to Article 32 of Article 193, dated 31/12/1960, and the second amendment to Article 32 of the IRS Act. "UNDDE 10-31/12/1960" has been changed to "10 per cent for each child" in Article 32 of Article 193 and "for the first two children." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th Amendment of the current bill be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Oktay Vural Scholar Light You've brought Lightning Emin Çınar Ali Öz Article 32 of income tax law No. 193, dated 10-31/12/1960, has been changed as follows. "MADE 32- The gross minimum wage of the income is exempt from income tax." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the Article 10 of the Law shall be changed, as follows, in accordance with the Article 687 of Business Health and Safety Act, and in accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Aytüg Thrower Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğün Çelebi Süleyman Çelebi Mahmoud Tanal Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Musa Pine The second and third jokes of Article 32 of income tax law 31/12/1960 have been changed as follows. The minimum income reduction is 10% of the annual gross wage for workers over the age of 16 in the industrial sector, which is valid at the beginning of the calendar year when the fee is acquired, for their spouse, who is unemployed and has no income, is 10% for each of the children separately. If the income belongs to the partial period, the lunar fractions are based on discounts that hit this period by counting full moons. The minimum income reduction is applied according to this joke by multiplying the amount applied to the first income rate of income tax rate on Article 103 with the amount specified in the amount specified by the amount specified by the amount imposed on the first income rate. You can't return it if there's too much to be harvested. The term "child" in the application of the sale refers to 18 years of age or children who have not reached the age of 25 years and who are legally married to each other, including those who have been given a child or children who have been taken care of or who have been given a child. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0046par0092	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0045par0093	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0047par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone. My dear friends, I have received our pledge on the 10th Amendment of the Law Bill, 687 rows. Article 10 envisions a change in Article 32 of the Taxes Act. The 31st and 32th article of the IRS talks about discounts; the 31st article talks about discounts on disabled persons; the 32nd article was lifted at an interval; it was re-enacted; it talks about a minimum income reduction. The minimum income reduction is now 50 per cent for the taxpayer himself, 10 per cent for the wife and 7.5 per cent for the first two children; 5 per cent for those after the first two children. Here we bring a 10% rate for the third child. This 10 percent is 9 lira for a family with 3 children, and we're bringing in a change of $9, my dear friends. Mr. Secretary, it's already in the IRS Act, and the Council of Ministers is already in charge of organizing it. Look, under the to-do clause, the issue of discounts says under Article 32: The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase or reduce the minimum income reduction rate mentioned in the second joke, as long as the total reduction of the amount is not exceeded by the annual gross amount of the fee. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase and reduce it. You didn't have to arrange a nine-dollar issue, you already have that authority. My dear friends, when I talk about this authority, when I talk about taxes, I'd like to share one more thing with you. I've mentioned in the past that there have been a number of tax issues -- there's a lot of money -- there's a lot of money -- there's not a lot of taxpayers in taxes from time to time -- that's the kind of argument we have with the Minister of Finance. Now, I've taken out the cities, especially from November 2002 to November 2014, not the increase, but the decline, and I'm going to read them one by one. Look, there is a decline in 12 years in November 2014 in Adıyaman, when the number of active taxpayers dropped to 5,968, in November 2002. There is a decline in opium; where is our Minister now? In Afyon, the Minister fell from 12.973 to 12,239. There is a decline in Artvin, Balıkir, Bilecik, Bolu, Çanakkale, Çorum. In Edirne, the income tax is the active number of taxpayers... which means that the number of Faal taxpayers shows the investment made with it, so it shows the investments in the record, it shows the employees. There's a real drop. There's a rise in places like Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, there's a rise in about 20. Other than that, there's a drop in places like your Bayburt. We're supposed to invest in these places, encourage them, and that's what I'm talking about. So we couldn't do that, especially in the last few years, we caused the population to decline, the income tax is reduced, that's what we have to do. In Edirne, in Elazığ, in Erzurum, in Giresun, in Hatay, in Hatay, in Kars, in Kastamon, in Cırklareli, in Kırşehir, in Kütahya, in Kütahya, in Manisa, in Mardin, in Nevşehir, in Nevşehir, in Rize, in Sakarya, in Siirt. There's been a fall in 32 counties. Our provinces, Yozgat, banelings, Zonguldak, Bayburt, Kırıkkale, have fallen. We especially need to evaluate these statistics very well, and we need to read them correctly. In particular, because production hasn't increased in recent years, we've suffered a great deal in the provinces of Asia Minor because there is no economy that weighs heavily on production. I wanted to make that clear. I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0048par0102	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in the 10th amendment to Article 32 of Article 193, dated 31/12/1960, and the second amendment to Article 32 of the IRS Act. "UNDDE 10-31/12/1960" has been changed to "10 per cent for each child" in Article 32 of Article 193 and "for the first two children." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0049par0112	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0048par0113	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0050par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We don't understand why the Commission and the government don't agree with this motion. If we're going to make an arrangement for those who live on minimum wage, it's our most natural expectation of at least a useful consideration of this arrangement in this Assembly General Assembly, and we've submitted this proposal. Normally, in the second joke of Article 32, we said that the first two children should be changed to 10 per cent for each child after their declaration of 7.5%. I mean, we're talking about a country where the minimum wage doesn't even amount to $1,000. The hunger limit in this country has risen to over 1,400 TL. These are numbers that unions, occupational organisations have given us. A positive arrangement for millions of minimum wagers living below the hunger border is the conscientious duty of each MP, a promise that each political party actually made to the public. It's impossible to say that a recovery of the power of the minimum wage is in the period of AK PARTI power. So, we all know that there's no positive development here when you're talking in numbers here, maybe, you know, you can talk about an increase in inflation rate and the ability to buy. Therefore, there is no reason for the provision for tax reduction or minimum income reduction to be limited to a certain number of children and reduced to those who came after it. The regulation of this minimum income reduction, which is 10% for each child, has never improved the income problem of the already low-payers, and may contribute to partial improvement. But the Commission says we do not agree with the motion that may contribute to this partial recovery. The government says we do not agree. It'll be voted in a moment, and as always, the AK PARTY Group will raise digits and not accept them. Therefore, the arrangement you have brought here for healing will not do any good. I mean, we think it's positive that you're bringing such an arrangement, but let's all agree that the motion that the Republican People's Party had just submitted was in the same context -- at least let's make an arrangement that will comfort a large population, which is already under the hunger limit, which has reached millions. Look, we don't discuss poverty in Turkey anymore. So the poverty limit in this country is above 4,000 TL. We, in fact, have been almost convinced that millions of people in this country have been living in poverty. The wages of people under the age of starvation are at a level that we all need to seriously disturb our consciences. You're the ones who should have been disturbed here in the first place. With the resources of this country, the workers, the workers, the peasants, the minimum wagers, the underprivileged, in this country, we have nothing to say, but if you can't digest it, at least listen to your conscience in the arrangements that bring this kind of partial improvement. The distribution of income in Turkey is getting worse every day. The gap between the richest and the poorest, unfortunately, has increased as much in your governments as possible. So in Turkey, if the number of dollar billionaires is increasing, and on the other hand, the number of millions living below the hunger line is increasing every day, there's something wrong here. Therefore, there is no reason for you to object to this motion. At the very least, he wants support for this resolution that will bring relief, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0051par0125	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th Amendment of the current bill be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Article 32 of income tax law No. 193, dated 10-31/12/1960, has been changed as follows. "MADE 32- The gross minimum wage of the income is exempt from income tax." Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0052par0136	Sir, with this arrangement, income taxes don't come from three children, minimum wage. We've agreed with social parties in this arrangement, so we can't participate, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0051par0137	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0053par0139	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 10th Amendment. I salute you all. I'm not surprised the Minister didn't agree with these motions. On March 20, 2013, he stated that the minimum wage could be earned, and the 800 lira at the time was a large sum, and the price of olives and cheese was set. However, this arrangement, which has been introduced in the 10th article in this current bag bill, is actually an arrangement with minimum wage, which is very sorry, very sarcastic. A minimum-paying person will be married, wife won't work, 3 will have children, and then he won't pay taxes. Now, with the arrangement brought in here, the advantage for minimum wage is $9. With this money, which child do you pay for, or what family expenses? What's the minimum wage? The minimum wage is defined as a source of income that provides the level of human dignity for employees and their families. However, the minimum wage in our country is both calculated and severely cut down, considering the needs of the worker as just one person. The minimum wage for the first six months of 2015 is $1.201.50. A total of $2242 is cut from this minimum wage, including an insurance premium of $168, an employee's share, an unemployment premium of $12, a $63 income tax, and a $9 stamp tax. A single and childless person's minimum income allowance is $90. Therefore, the minimum wage of a single and childless employee in the first six months of 2015 is 949 lira. The direct taxation of this fee -- except for the employee's family -- is not consistent with the concept of a social state. Therefore, lifting the tax burden of minimum wage has now become a social and economic obligation. We, the National Movement Party, argue that no taxes should be taken from minimum wage. That's what we're proposing. Cuts, such as taxes, insurance, funds, reduce employees' net wage and also increase the cost of employers. This provides grounds for off-the-book employment. Off the record, there are many reasons, but that's one of the main reasons for off-the-book employment. Unfortunately, the application can be negotiated off-the-books between employers and employees. In exchange for a raise in wages or hiring, it may be possible for them to give up their right to insurance and complaints. The lack of control mechanisms is seen as another factor that encourages this situation. The minimum wage won't cause as much tax loss as it's supposed to be tax evasion. Although there may be some tax loss in the first year, the low-intensity, paid and paid part of their income has already been spent. The tax loss, supposedly due to increased tax revenues on expenditures, could also be covered by the increase in production in the manufacturing industry, depending on the movement of the goods market. So these minimum wagers are going to spend all of their income. With minimum wage tax-free, employers will prefer unregistered employment much less. There will be some increase in government tax revenues. Therefore, with the minimum wage being taxed, some explanations may appear in the short term, but in the middle and long term, it will benefit everyone. With these thoughts, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and with respect.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0054par0148	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0055par0149	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit03spe0054par0150	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0054par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends on the 10th article of the Law Bill 687 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough of a decision. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, there's a motion for a new substance violation. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins the motion with only 14 members, I'll open it up as a new clause on the motion. If the Commission does not agree to the motion with a majority, I will dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Bill of the Law shall be adopted by the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 687, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman love Look Ramadan Can MADDE 1 - 31/12/1960 and the first clause of Article 40 of the IRS Act 193 added the bell to the following. (11). For those who benefit from the labour-based training programmes organised by the Turkish Employment Agency, they are paid in effect by employers who run the programme. (In this case, the amount of reductions to each participant is not half the gross amount of the monthly minimum wage, regardless of the fee associated with the detection of commercial profits by employers.") Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission has joined the motion with a majority, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes on the new clause: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft law of 687 rows under discussion be changed to the second statement of Article 11 of the Law on State Officers No. 657, dated 14/7/1965, which stipulates a change in Article 657. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Common Law be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Cemalettin Lightning Scholar Light Emin Çınar Ali Öz MADDE 11-14/7/1965 by State Officers Act 657; A) The addition of State Officers Law No. 657 (I) to the "IV-Education and Teaching Services Class" (b) was changed in the following way. 'b) Teacher and other staff 1 3600 B) Ekli (I) is the EK indicator ruler (VII). THE EMPLOYEMENTS OF THE EMPLOYEMENTS HAVE BEEN CHANGED IN THESE WAY. (VII.) EMPLOYMENTS SINIFI A) Police Director 17,000 B) Police Director-General 16,000 Assistants of the Inspection Board President, Police Academy President, Ankara, İstanbul and C) Apartment Presidents, I. The law is 15,000. Counsellor, Other First Class Chiefs of Police, d) 14,000 of their staff included in this class The second, the third and the second 3600 Fourth Class Security 3 3000 Chief of Police and Chief of Police 4 2200 e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Senior Chief of Police, State Police and Police. aa) Higher Education 1,3600 C) Eki (II) Addict ruler "1. Following the declaration of "President of the National Real Estate Agency in the Prime Minister's and Ministrys," the declaration was added, "The President of the Institute for Research and Development of Business Health and Safety," "4." "The Institute for Business Health and Safety," which is part of the section "Institution for Prime Ministership and Ministrys," has been changed to "The Vice President of the Institute for Research and Development of Business Health and Safety," and added "The Regional Laboratory Manager of the Institute for Business Health and Safety Research and Development," which will come after this declaration. D) EK (II) In the section "Integrated to 5-Judgmental Institutions and Concerned Institutions and Higher Education Institutions" of the extra indicator ruler, the article text has been released. e) The EK (II) additional indicator ruler "2. Following the declaration of "President of the Development Administration Group" in the Department of Companies and Companies of Companies and Higher Education, the declaration has been added. F) Eki (IV) has been added to the 7th ranking of the Court of Restitution, President of the Development Group, President of the Institute for Business Health and Safety Research and Development, following the declaration. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0056par0090	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0054par0091	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0057par0092	Yeah, motive.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0054par0093	I'm reading the reason: The law enforcement officers who are willing to sacrifice for the peace and security of our country are unable to repay their services. Unorganized working conditions, professional risk, stressful work environments, the tenacity to work, even our police's determination to live. 300 cops have committed suicide in the last ten years. Over 100 police have been killed, 1,600 police officers have died during their duties and the occupational illness of the mission. Our motion is to improve the security services compensation, considering the heavy working conditions and payments to the peers of the law-enforcement class. Security services compensation for police workers is being increased, additional indicators are being improved, and additional indicators are set to the eighth degree. In addition, additional indicators of some titles are being rearranged, including additional indicators for employees who work in law enforcement classes to the eighth degree, as in other classes. Thus, the victims of employees and retired police personnel are still being compensated. Teachers' special education compensations are being increased and additional indicators are being raised. There is a complete discrepancy between the work density and responsibilities of faculty secretaries and their additional indicators. With our proposal, the additional indicators of faculty secretaries, whose numbers are around 1,500, are increased from 3,000 to 3,600, providing justice between the duties and obligations of faculty secretaries and additional indicators. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the amendment of the 687-line bill to the second amendment of Article No. 657, dated 14/7/1965, in the second article of Article No. 657, in which there is a change in the Law on State Officers. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0058par0106	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0054par0107	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0059par0108	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 11th Amendment to Business Health and Safety Act 687. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the right to live is a sacred right guaranteed in the Constitution and international human rights contracts that we are part of, but unfortunately, in our country, about a thousand people are stripped of their right to live every year because the measures to the health and safety of workers are not taken enough. The bill was changed to the business accident of the mines between 13/5/2014 and 28/10/2014, which occurred in Soma district of Manisa Province in the interim Article 59/15/2014. In this arrangement, the families of workers who died in the mining massacres of Soma and Ermenek are covered by various social rights and benefits. Our workers who lost their lives, who were killed by workers, were only taken seriously when they died collectively. It's impossible to accept. As workers continue to die every day, it is highly inadequate for the government to make provisions that are restricted to Soma and Ermenek, which have left a deep public wound. The regulations described in the article should be changed not only to the families of workers who lost their lives in all underground mining operations between Soma and Ermenek disasters, but also to include the rights of all workers who lost their lives in occupational accidents or occupational diseases to walk back. Dear lawmakers, according to the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, at least five workers die every day because there is no safety measure in Turkey. Each day, five workers are sent to die knowingly to avoid costs and satisfy capital's desire for profit. We have to stress that the killings of these workers cannot be naturalized or ordinaryized because there are no measures taken. According to International Labour Organization ILO data, the number of workers killed every year in Turkey, which ranked third in the deaths of workers after El Salvador and Algeria. Construction, energy and mining sectors have become a profitable, bloody sector of Turkey. Therefore, the capital is flocking to these areas, and the workers are employed for low wages, long hours, and death under conditions similar to the hells of 19th century wildlife. Dear lawmakers, Soma and Ermenek have reiterated the risks caused by privatisations in Turkey's energy production and by some sort of angular attraction in the mines. Capital and state relations, especially when it comes to dangerous jobs, such as mines, shipyards, are entirely based on the common interests of the parties, but not on the rights and assurances of the workers. Controls in businesses must now be done seriously, and for employees there must be a human working arm. In order to prevent laborers from risking their lives, to work as human beings and to prevent job killings, security and flexibility must be halted, particularly the subcontractor system. Political pressures against workers sentenced to poor labour conditions by the threat of unemployment should be terminated immediately. The union dam and the actual and legal barriers to organisation must be removed. Mr. President, instead of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, I salute the General Assembly with these feelings and thoughts that a labour and safety law that will be prepared with the participation of labour and trade organisations and scientists, which will really protect the workers, should be passed immediately.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0060par0116	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "work health and safety in schools that may be graduates of occupational health and safety under the Law on Business Health and Safety, dated 20/6/2012 in Article 5 of Higher Education, dated 4/11/1981, and under the Law on Business Health and Safety." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0061par0129	Sir, this is the 12th article in which the schools of universities are assigned a course in occupational health and safety. It's an extremely important arrangement. That's why we can't join, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0062par0130	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0060par0131	I'm reading the reason: The draft law aims to make it a mandatory course in schools where graduates can become occupational safety specialists. This arrangement is inadequate as it is. In order to improve health and safety awareness and culture in terms of working life in general, similar studies and educational studies should be provided at all levels and fields from primary school to university. The change aims to add this approach to the legislation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed 687 rows of legislation, dated 4/11/1983, shall be replaced as the 6/6-month term in Article 13/42, which stipulates to add Interim Article No. 2942 to the Publicisation Act. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0063par0146	Sir, we can't agree. This is an extremely important arrangement. There's a serious problem that concerns thousands, tens of thousands of citizens, in publicization, where citizens are being asked to return the cost of publicisation paid to them, and we're solving that problem together. Thank you, everyone. I can't agree with the motion.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0064par0148	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0065par0149	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to allow the collection of the proceeds, which have arisen as a result of publicisations that have been cancelled by the amendments, to be made possible in a shorter amount of time. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the draft of the 687 rows of legislation, dated 9/1/1985, shall be replaced by Article 14 (e) Article 8 of the Law on the Agency and its Missions of the Ministry of Social Security (i.e. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Law and Security Act. Haydar Akar Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan Kokturk İzzet Çetin Kadir Gökmen Öğümün MADDE 14-9/1/1985 and Article 8 (d) of the Law on Offices and Tasks of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security 3146 have been changed in the following way. "d" Department of Health and Safety "e) President of the European Union and Financial Aids Agency." Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0066par0173	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0065par0174	Who's gonna talk? Motive?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0067par0175	The Qur'an will speak.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0065par0176	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0178	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed lawmakers on Bill 687. But before, today, we lost our master artist Kayahan. And on Tuesday, we lost Selim Kiraz, our prosecutor, who was said to have no protection. I offer them mercy, my condolences to their family and to our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the bill we've discussed has been agreed on many articles. In particular, in our recent history, important regulations have been brought into account of the mining accidents that ensued our country. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, to all our friends and friends who worked hard to be our group in the first place. Our wish is that these laws function in a healthy manner, the immediate fulfillment of shortcomings, and the effective execution of control mechanisms, as stated in the law. Dear lawmakers, we've been through a very fast process over the last year. After local elections and presidential elections, we've put a four-year process behind us and now we've entered the general election market. There's been a lot of arguments and there's been a lot of arguments. Almost every day in Turkey, we experience the type of events that occur every few years in European countries. From what has happened in the past week alone, it's possible to see what kind of black picture the new Turkey is sitting on. Look, we're discussing the Business Security Bill, but I'm still not sure how serious the situation is. At least 139 workers died in March, at least 351 workers in the first three months of the year, but no one talked about it, according to the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council report. I can't stop thinking about our workers who burned to death in the container the other day. There are other issues on the president's agenda. How do I get the Mexican-type presidential dictatorship, his system, how to silence the opposition voices; he's thinking about them, driving our country into inner chaos. He's still speaking in a manner that is unbecoming and unprecedented, and unfortunately he doesn't care about any real pain in this country. He's still using and using a kid who was killed when he was 15. Is that what the President does? Is it creating a agenda, keeping it pure, asking for votes? Mr. President, show him your documents if he was shot on his way to buy bread. He can say "Imam" but he can't find the certificate of drinking in the mosque, despite the imam's rejection.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0069par0184	His parents have made a statement, so please don't make politics out of it!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0185	Never mind, never mind...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0069par0186	Go, go, go! No politics on the dead, please!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0187	Yeah, I don't think so. Don't boo his mother, don't boo his mother at the rallies. Kabadash lies have a counter-significant. He saw seven duvets that the allegations were false, and the deaf sultan heard them. Dear friends, please, let us all be discreet, regardless of our ideology and our view, and let us not allow the production of more political materials and the suffering of the family to suffer because pain has no ideology.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0070par0191	Who made the political stuff?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0192	Dear friends, let's see what happened in general when we left four years behind. Business accidents have increased unprecedentedly in the history of the Republic. The number of child laborers increased in violence against women. Education has again declined, as did the previous AKP rulings. The Imam-members were replicated and the Anatolian and science high schools were disabled. Regression in training has gone through the roof. The entire infrastructure of the growing of spiteful and religious generations has been prepared. All elements of the health system have become alerts.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0193	Tell me who fired the gun to the D.A.'s head.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0194	Doctors were devastated by performance, patients with emergencies. The ear was blocked in efforts to receive services from dentists' offices.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0195	Were they religious who slaughtered the prosecutor? Who was it?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0072par0196	The more you talk, the more you sink! The more you talk, the more you sink!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0197	We're not going down any deeper than you are, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0198	Talk to me a little bit about DHKP-C.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0199	All the views of our country's mosaic have been played to create chaos over faith and races.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0200	Why don't you speak to the president as much as you do to the DHKP-C?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0068par0201	The practices we did not see under September 12th were implemented by changing shapes and hands and being covered by law. The treatment of lawyers during the two days of the falls is the most obvious indication of how the law enforcement force has ruled over the inadmissible detention and violence of university youths to build this country's future.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0202	Come to the prosecutor, the prosecutor!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0073par0203	You're looking out for terrorists!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0204	Come to the martyred prosecutor instead of talking to the lawyers!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0074par0205	They are systematically persecuted by their employees, their students, their teachers, their patients, their doctors, their pensions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0071par0206	Let's talk about the DHKP-C. Talk to me about the DHKP-C. Are they terrorists? Say it, can you say it?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0074par0207	You've done a very good job of handing out wristwatches to your MPs as a symbol of this period. This term will be remembered with this watch, including the allegations that a former minister was caught in England with two suitcases.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0075par0208	See you on June 7th!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0074par0209	When we come to power as CHP, we will not allow any of these things, but we will answer to them one by one; we will make them stand trial in the High Court, and we will deliver our children, our daughters, and our women; and we will ask justice for those who were killed in the trip.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0076par0210	Can you say "terrorist" to DHKP-C?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0074par0211	I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0077par0213	Thank you, Mr. Öpül.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0078par0214	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit04spe0077par0215	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I don't see the number of decisions enough. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0077par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 14 of the Law Bill 687. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the draft of the 687 rows of legislation, dated 9/1/1985, shall be replaced by Article 14 (e) Article 8 of the Law on the Agency and its Missions of the Ministry of Social Security (i.e. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0079par0013	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0077par0014	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0080par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, we're actually discussing an important arrangement that concerns working life and working space, but unfortunately, we're re-expressing our criticism of your lawmaking technique. We are again faced with an example of a bag of legislation about an area that concerns almost a large part of Turkey's population, which is so sloppy and unresolved from the structural, radical problems involved in a field that concerns workers, workers. I'm afraid you haven't given up your habit of bringing the law here with this bag of laws. I remember here in February, Mr. Bulent Arinc, as Deputy Prime Minister, had a speech from this podium that criticised the technique of the law and then promised not to bring such legislation to the House, but it's interesting that after Mr. Arinc's speech, the AK PARTI Group and the government kept bringing the inflated bag laws to the agenda of this Assembly. We're dealing with the same situation here, as I said. Actually, there are some of the most radical problems in the field. When this bag of laws becomes legal, you have to think about what you're going to solve. So in your working life, what problem would you have solved with unsubstantiated, unsecured, flexible work? What would you be correcting about off-the-books work and subcontractorization? You have to ask yourself that. When you brought a law here, we expected you to at least learn from the disasters, disasters, work massacres that we had recently faced in working life. The recent work massacres of Soma, Ermenek, the grandkids are ahead of us. We know that these job massacres are more developed through subcontractorization and rejection systems. At least when we brought a law here, we expected you to make some proper adjustments to this subcontractorization and rejection system, but we understand that our expectations are in vain. Mr. Minister of Labour, though, has always adopted a method by slipping away from other ministers in the Cabinet: I mean, before enforcing a law, he's always shown a kind gesture to all groups that he's open to kindness and suggestions, but unfortunately, we'd like to have this virtuous stance before the law is prepared. There's no point in visiting the General Assembly before this bag passes through the Commission in Parliament. In fact, if he had visited political party groups before preparing, visited relevant trade organisations, trade unions, social parties, and brought some legal proposals to the General Assembly, perhaps we would not have experienced many problems in our working life today. So I'm saying again, with all due respect, we've encountered business accidents, catastrophes, which have killed more than 300 workers. At least we think there's some sort of arrangement that should stand in the way of that. We think that the Ministry of Labor has not solved the problems of working and working life, dealing with a bit of populist approaches before the election in terms of their own party interests, which ignore trade unions, ignore their professional organisations, are constantly closed to their proposals. We hope that these wrongs will be abandoned in the coming period. Although it's not clear whether you'll be a government in the coming period, but at least let's give our own warnings to the government's political party. I hope that we will deal with the power of the People's Democratic Party, with the power of the people here, and then you won't hear these criticisms from this bench, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0021	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the addition of the following joke to Article 15 of Law No. 3146, which stipulates a change in Article 12 of Law 687. ▪ The Head of the Institute for Research and Development of Business Health and Security and Research and Development of Business Health Institutes is organised by regulations on working with the Regional Laboratory Directors, the first and secondary educational institutions. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0082par0035	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0083par0036	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0037	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to promote occupational health and safety training. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law bill 687 rows shall be changed into "preparation by the Ministry" in Article 16 of Article 12/A, which stipulates to add amendments and jokes to the title of Law 3146. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0084par0052	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0085par0053	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0054	I'm reading the reason: A change is intended to make the text of matter more clear. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following declaration to Article 18 under which Article 3 of Law 3146 shall be changed. "The chairmanship of the Institute for Research and Development of Business Health and Safety includes at least one of the labour unions and at least one of the representatives of the public institutional trade organisations. The funding of the institute is covered by general budget pencils. The institute is administratively autonomous." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0086par0071	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0087par0072	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0073	I'm reading the reason: In this way, the institute was intended to represent social parties, and through autonomy, it was tried to ensure that it was not affected by political pressures and changes in power. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 19 of the Law on Changes in Law and Laws under Article 687 of Business Health and Safety Act, as follows. The Moonbeater Chooses Vahaap Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğüğün Ali Serindağ The following article is added to the Law 19-3146. The staff on the 4-EK MADDE 4- Ekli (1) and (2) lists of 13/12/1983 has been cancelled and added to the additional chapter of the Department of Labor and Social Security of Covenant No. 190 (I) and the Department of Labor and Social Security (I). Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0088par0090	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0091	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0089par0092	Vacay chooses to speak.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0081par0093	Mr. Chooser, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0090par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A bag of legislation includes many issues. In fact, occupational health is not an arrangement that fully covers matters related to occupational safety. So, here's a study before the election, where there's some sort of pre-election arrangement. Now, the motion we're talking about is a matter of staff restitution. The biggest problem in Turkey -- you know -- is unemployment. In the last ten years, 20 million of our citizens have taken the KPSS exam, while 611,000 have been appointed officers. Other than KPSS, there are staffs without KPSS obligations, exceptional staffs. That's where the trouble starts. Of course, this has been said many times. In particular, during your administration's time, these exceptional staffs, non-KPSS staffs, unfortunately, have been assigned to you more closely, regardless of experience, without experience, without human experience. We've been listening to your government's applications for the election of every pensioner for $100, especially yesterday, as if it were a very important practice on pensioners. The inflation rate has been announced today. I looked, the inflation rate for the last three months is about 3%. I'm looking at an increase in pensioners for the first six months of 2015 around 2.32. The government's six-month increase rate for employees is around 3%. So in Turkey, the rate of inflation in January, February, March, in the three-month period has risen above a six-month raise to pensioners, so pensioners have already received that raise in the first three months. I look at the people in your work life, and so do they. The lowest SSC pension in Turkey is around 360 euros. Look, we're going to enter the European Union. We say, look at the gap between those European Union member states and the pensioners in Turkey: Italy receives 1,772 euros average pensioner. Retired Italy, which received 363 euros in Turkey, receives 1,772 euros in pensions, 1,843 in Spain and 2,000 in Greece. Now, the work we're doing for pensioners on the election is about a salary bonus for religious holidays. There's one thing I've noticed. For some reason, when you offer an additional fee, a raise or better conditions in any social class, no one asks the source of this, but we, for example, will give the pensioners a double increase in religious holidays. Now you're giving pensioners a 100 lira raise. Where's the source of this? You'll get it from the budget. Well, I guess we'll have to pay the bonuses in the budget for the religious holidays. The pensioners have a lot of problems. He's got an attitude problem. Again, we brought this up before the 2011 election, and it was the source debate again, but after the 2011 elections, your government brought this up, and the missing breach, you brought it to life. But the policy is something that needs to be brought up again. The pensioners have a problem with their contribution. Pharmacies, hospitals, pensioners, they get 12 pens. This is a very important problem. It's arranged according to inflation rate when you give pensioners raises, but there are a lot of assets in that inflation account that don't concern pensioners. So we think it's important for pensioners to get higher rates of food inflation. I hope you'll support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0091par0107	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 21st article, which stipulates to add temporary clauses to Law 3146, in accordance with the current law bill 687 rows. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0092par0121	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0093par0122	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit05spe0091par0123	I'm reading the reason: The once-in-a-lifetime request for the appointment of Labour Services Experts and International Labor Services Assistants will remove the merits and experience in matters that require qualifications and will open up to abuse. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 21 is accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 22 is accepted. 20. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0091par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're continuing with the talks of Bill 687. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 23 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 23 of the current 687 rows of the Bill be removed from the text of the Bill. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Ramadan Can Hussein Fiz Osman Look at your love The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Baluken Abdullah Levent Tusel Adil Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Aytüğtor Sinan Aydın Aygün İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Crescent Kaplan Musa Pine Haydar Akar Ramadan Kerim Özkan Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0094par0026	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0091par0027	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0095par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 23 of Bill 687. I salute you all. Dear friends, this clause has actually been passed in the previous session of our General Assembly. The Justice and Development Party... The reason why the substance was removed from the text is that it was actually legalized earlier, passed through here. Yes, we've made a motion for the same reason, but we're expressing our objections in the previous negotiations of this clause, and we're trying to find out how we're going to get an answer from the Constitutional Court, and we're preparing the Constitutional Court for this clause. Well, let's think about what this stuff was bringing, and let's remember: it was actually a matter with a lot of depth, a lot of thought, a lot of study, and a lot of real political engineering. Let's remember, what did it say? He was saying, sir, that if we removed the senior state officials or were relieved of duty, I mean the undersecretary and the addendum over 7,000, if they were relieved of duty or if they were relieved of duty, they would be appointed as prime minister's advisors. Sounds good. So if a senior bureaucrat, an undersecretary, or if he's relieved of duty -- sir, I mean, not to let this poor man go to trial, let's appoint this former undersecretary of the Prime Minister. So, what happens if there's no staff? They will be assigned here once and for all, without the condition of the staff, and if they retire or receive the mercy of Hakkk, the substance would automatically fall. Sounds good, sounds human. You were doing the same thing for the lower-ranking officers, not as a prime minister's advisor, but as a minister's advisor, or as a member of the staff. Like what? When you removed the governor, you were making him governor, you were dragging him to the station, just like you were taking him to the station. So, what was the painting behind this story, what was the thought, what was the background? Let me remind you that the elections are coming. Of course, the government -- the current AKP government -- wants to preserve its presence. There's nothing more natural. But he's trying to make every effort to preserve his presence. These roads are sometimes a little rough on the law. No one can say no to that. Doesn't the President's request for 400 deputies force both the laws and the Constitution? He's pushing it. I've read the Justice and Development Party's programme. Doesn't it force the laws and the Constitution? He's pushing it. Now, none of you are likely to be forced to do that; it never happened. You can't say that because the President talks about it in front of televisions and forces the law and the Constitution. Now, doesn't the President who forces the law and the Constitution also want bureaucrats to force the law by acting in a similar manner? He might want to. That's what this stuff is for. I mean, it's a law set up to force laws, regulations, regulations, to do some troubling work from the undersecretary to the lower officials, that's what I'm claiming. If there's another claim, we can discuss it easily. This claims that you will protect the officers you forced out of office. In the next article, I'm going to try to tell you how you've protected it, what kind of umbrella you've created, so you'll see that this political engineering you're doing is actually hitting the wall, being watched by everyone. In the next article, I'm going to tell you a little bit more about what you're doing because I'm sure a lot of AKP MPs don't know what they're doing. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0096par0035	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. A number of government personnel' rights are being eliminated by the clause. The amendment aims to correct this situation, which is also contrary to the Constitution. I'm reading the other reason: Article 23 of Article 688, which is included in the draft text, has been included in the draft text, and has been adopted into consideration from the draft text. I submit these three motions to your votes.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0097par0043	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit06spe0096par0044	All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0096par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 90th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision to vote on the same three proposals to remove from the text on Article 23 of the Law Bill 687 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Thus, the substance is removed from the text. We will continue the negotiations through the text adopted by the Commission, but then the matter numbers will be identified. Now, there are two motions of the same nature on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 24th Amendment of the current law bill, which is 687 rows, be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Hüseyin Fiz Mehmet Yüksel Ali Ercoshkun The signatures of the other motion are: Sinan Aydın Aygün Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with these motions? We'll leave it to our appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0098par0024	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0096par0025	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0099par0027	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 24th Amendment of Bill 687. I salute you all. Dear friends, the 24th article is also linked to the 23rd article. Actually, it's only two and a half lines. We're talking about a two-and-a-half-line clause, but once we get into a little bit of detail, we can see that it's deep enough to write a two-and-a-half volume book. In our talks on the previous clause, I explained that when you actually relieved the undersecretary or senior officers of their duties, you appointed them as prime minister's advisors, then you removed the lower ranking officers and appointed them minister's advisors. Now, I'll tell you your true intentions here. Your true intention, my friends, is that when you go to the elections, if you try to force the law on an undersecretary or a lower official, he may object to you, sir, that this is against the law and we do not want to do it. In that case, you have two ways: you will either remove this person or convince him. What happens if you take him off duty? If you let him go, he'll sue and come back on duty, just like he did before. So, what do you have to do to convince him? To convince him, you need to take this officer into protective custody. You're telling the officer: "Sister, you do as I say, don't be afraid." If you do what I say, I won't fire you anyway, but if I lose power on June 8th, if another government comes, you can be dismissed. Don't worry, in this case you won't be dismissed, you'll be assigned to an equal staff, as you've been relieved of duty, as a minister's advisor, or as a prime minister's advisor. Well, if this bureaucrat doesn't think the way you do, if he doesn't look at the world through your window, if he's standing upright and telling you no, then what are you going to do? Of course you're going to depose him. When you remove this person from office -- in order to prevent him from going to trial -- you're making this person again, according to the ministry or rank, as a prime minister, and preventing him from going to court. So, at the heart of all this political engineering you've done, you, especially the undersecretaries, have the ability to get all the officers to do the law by going down to the level of office heads. And don't worry, because when you raise your hand on this stuff, before you tell them, these officers will do exactly as you say, they will understand what's going on in your mind, and some of them will say, "Damn it, I won't bother you." Some of them will say, "What shall we do?" Some of them will make the law, so the Supreme Assembly will cut the iron. Can I give you a little example of how the wind blows when you guys make a little change? Remember, when you put carpets in the illegal palace, these carpets used to be turquoise, so you know, they used to have famous red carpets, but now that Mr. President has seen fit like this, he laid turquoise carpets in or in the hall of the runaway palace. What happened in Turkey? Look at the color of the carpets in those VIP halls where you walk every day, and suddenly they change, and the red carpets are gone, and the turquoise carpets are in its place. Now, from this example, if you accept this clause, your officers will understand what's going on in your mind, they'll sink in some of it, they'll swallow some of it, but when the time comes, they'll answer for it. When is the time, the place? June 7th. They'll answer for it on June 7th, and we'll send you to the Supreme Court. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0100par0035	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0101par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0100par0037	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0101par0040	Mr. President, thank you very much. Kayahan, the great master of our music, has passed away. I pray for God's mercy, the head of our nation, and of his kinsmen. Music is one of the areas in which our common spirit has been compromised, and Kayahan was an artist who did it well, I say, may he rest in peace. And I'd like to say a few words about the narratives of Mr. Precious Aytug, who just spoke, who claims that this is a clause that we've removed from the same window, against bureaucrats who don't look out the same way as you, who don't agree with you, who stand up to you. He's saying this out of criticism, but I thank Mr. Aytug very much, and there's a tribute hidden in the text. It also states that the AK PARTY, which has been in power for thirteen years, has not touched bureaucracy, has stood in the position of a highly colored bureaucratic staff, and not everyone looks out the same window. I thank him very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0102par0045	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0103par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0102par0047	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0103par0048	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has made a comment by twisting my words. If you'll excuse me, I'd like your word on the bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0104par0049	No teasing, I explained my position.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0102par0050	Come in, we'll be glad to hear from you in a little while, please.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0103par0051	I promise I won't be running out of time.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0102par0052	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0103par0056	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, of course, nice to discuss, nice to chat. I didn't say that. I wish the AKP government hadn't touched the bureaucrats. I interpret what you're saying as an epiphany of events in your brain, in your soul. I'll give you one tiny example, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, that you have even relieved the director and the vice principals of National Education. Look, I've given up on high-ranking bureaucrats, all but all the principals in National Education, and you've appointed school principals who are only registered to education-BIRD-SEN, who look out the window that you look at the world from. What else can I tell you? I'm here to interrupt and pay my respects because I promised the president I wouldn't use my entire time.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0105par0061	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The 24th article in the draft text, Article 688, is included in the Bill of Law text, and is subject to consultation, so it is removed from the draft text. I submit the same motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who do not accept... have been accepted and thus removed from the 24th article of the bill. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 687th amendment in accordance with Article 26 under Article 48 of the Act on Unemployment Insurance No. 4447, dated 25/8/1999. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0106par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0105par0081	I'm reading the reason: The unemployment fund is an insurance policy for those who have lost their jobs in Turkey with millions of unemployed people. Given the possibility of deepening the economic crisis, the funding must be avoided for this purpose. It would be more appropriate for these expenses to be covered by the general budget. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Bill 687 of Common Budget shall be replaced by the "successful" of the 27th article, which stipulates adding additional material to Law 4447, as well as the "Fondan" declarations. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0107par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0105par0097	I'm reading the reason: It will not be fair to discriminate between those who take the test at a time when poverty is getting deeper. Failure in exams does not justify discrimination among citizens. It was intended for anyone who took the test without a change and the source to be covered by the general budget. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "This difference is transferred from the General Budget to the Fund" following the declaration of "11%" in Article 28 of the current law bill, which stipulates to add additional clauses to Law 4447." We propose and propose that it be added and "pay back with legal interest" be replaced by "pay back 10 times as much as legal interest." İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 687 ranking "We propose and propose that the Article 28 of the Law shall be changed in the following way, in accordance with the Law on Health and Safety Act, and in accordance with some Laws and Laws. Sinan Aydın Aygün Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Haydar Akar Musa Pine EK MADDE 4- 20/6/2012, Law No. 6331, under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, has more than ten employees in the very dangerous classroom and has been unable to do a mortal or permanent or temporary job in three years. The employment and occupational benefits they will pay in accordance with the C joke are taken as a incentive from the next calendar year and as a 1% for three years; and if there is a fatal business accident, it will be 3% for the same conditions. If this bonus is taken as 1%, the 1% premium is transferred from the budget to the social security institution by the treasury, which is not taken as an incentive. It is based on the total number of employees employed under the first joke (a) of Article 4 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, dated 31/5/2006 of the employer, which is in multiple dangerous classrooms throughout Turkey. The administrative fine issued in the first article (e) of Article 26 of Law No. 6331 (e) to those who do not report business accidents mentioned in the first joke, is imposed ten times more than the same clause, even if the act constitutes another crime. The benefits of the past are returned with legal interest. A five-year ban on incentives is imposed on employers in this situation. According to the fact that those who have been given a restraining order are the real or legal person; the same ban on this individual company is imposed on the company if they are partners in a private company, and on the fact that they have more than half of its capital capital, as well as on the fact that they have more than half of its capital. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the Ministry." Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0108par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0105par0122	Mr. Çelebi, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0109par0124	Good evening, dear friends. Mr. President, I salute you with respect and love. Of course, all our objections to this law are related to the abuse of this unemployment fund. An eye is set on unemployment insurance; wherever there is work, whatever work there is to be done, there is a large portion of the money saved for the workers from the unemployment benefit fund. The social state does not make the social state the contribution it should have done, but the unemployment benefit is the focus of its eyes. On the other hand, from the unemployment fund to the GAPP, there's a lot of tax pardons, a lot of insurance pardons, a lot of the money that's not being paid right now is all paid from the unemployment benefit fund, dear friends. But come on, let's fix that unemployment benefit you gave under the age of hunger, that salary he got out of unemployment insurance, and when we say, "Well, let's put it on the power brake." Let's extend the salary of these unemployed people about unemployment. When we say that, the power hits the brakes. But there's a source that's going to be transferred, every effort, every will to transfer that source from the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and there's a source in which all the employers' demands are being met, which is the Fund for Unemployment Insurance, my dear friends. In this field, however, many projects in terms of employment are actually interrupted, in terms of education from that fund. But on the other hand, whatever other demand comes about it, our Minister of Labor says, "God willing, I have the pouch on this matter" -- any kind of generosity is being done on him. It's not about being generous with what the workers pay. After saving elsewhere -- in Ermenek, in Soma, in other places -- let the state do it first, in accordance with the social state's requirements, and then, after the government's mission, if it's to harm the employer. Of course, it should be, of course, that the first-degree employers are in charge, so let them lie there, but here they are looking at the unemployment fund, and if the employer goes down, the money will go down from the unemployment benefit fund, and it will burn. It's a shame, isn't it, fellas? But we propose these things, we propose them in the Commission, we propose this once again, and if this motion is taken into consideration, it will be much more honorable when you remove your hand from the unemployment fund. I give you all my respects, my love, my dear friends.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0110par0131	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "This difference will be transferred from the General Budget to the Fund," it said after the declaration "It is taken as %1" in Article 28 (the Law) of Law No. 4447, which stipulates to add additional items to the existing 687 rows. We propose and propose that it be added and "pay back with legal interest" be replaced by "pay back 10 times as much as legal interest." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0111par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0112par0141	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0110par0142	I'm reading the reason: The punishment and incentive system is not right to be carried out through unemployment insurance. In the current way of the arrangement, unemployment insurance Fund's revenues will be reduced unless the business accidents, which result in mortality or constant inoperability at workplaces that employ more than 10 workers, occur for three years. It is wrong for workers and unemployed to be "black-day friends" and the unemployment insurance fund to be broken by an actuary balance, as well as by a fiction on the lives and health of workers. By means of this substance, workers who have been injured have been wronged several times by their injury and the reduction of income in unemployment funds. This should be organised with the general budget. The current arrangement will also encourage employers who take advantage of this incentive or who aim to benefit from it not to report business accidents, as it is not surprising that employers do not report at least business accidents in conditions where there is no initial provision of "admin fine of 10 times the amount of administrative fine." A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 29 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 687 of Business Health and Safety Act No. 687, "The Fund shall be saved by funds" of Article 29 and Article 4447, which shall be added to Article 4447. We offer and offer to change it into form. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Osman love Look Ramadan Can Hussein Fiz The signatures of the other motion are: Aytuğ Atı İzzet Çetin Çelebi Mersin Ankara İstanbul Ali İhsan Kokturk Haydar Akar Free Special Zonguldak Kisali Manisa Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of the second joke of Article 29 of the current 687 rows of the bill, "Repayment includes the deadline from the date of the accident to the release of the law." Adding to that, at the end of the third joke, "These sums collected are returned to the Fund." We offer and offer to add his notice. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0113par0167	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0114par0168	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0110par0169	I'm reading the reason: Under the 6th joke of Article 25 of Law 25 of Ermenek, employers are obliged to pay their wages or to give them another job, and the employer's obligation begins with the end of the operation (work). However, according to the current state of the matter, the payment from the Fund will begin at the beginning of the month following the release of the substance, and the work will not be paid for the amount of time it takes to be stopped until then. The planned payment must start from the date of the job's end, and all payments must be collected from employers with legal interest. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 687 ranked "investigated revenues are recorded by the "registered income" of the Article 29 of the Law on the Amendment in Articles of Business Health and Safety Act and Some Laws. We offer and offer to change it into form. Free Private (Manisa) and friends The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? - We're giving it to you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0115par0182	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0110par0183	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0116par0184	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We worked on the Commission for a long time, on the subcommittee and on the Commission. Mr. Süleyman Çelebi is here. Let's say on the subcommittee and on the top commission -- we've done an incredible amount of work in the commission itself, and in some articles we've expressed our right concerns as the Republican People's Party, our rights. And they weren't constantly considered, they were rejected, their blood pressure rose from time to time. Now, because the House has the last two or three days, maybe it's the last day, it's pushing time pressure on a culture of reconciliation, which should be sought out, sought by power, forced by the Justice and Development Party, but not too close to it. And good thing it does, because when the ruling party is looking for a compromise, life is actually much better for the parliamentary regime and for each of us. What kind of vision are we looking at? Friends, we have materials we want to pass, and you have positive contributions. Let's talk about this and do the right thing, but we don't have to go through the stuff that we're pushing and you're fighting. Let's look for a little more common sense in those matters. When we are told, opposition parties contribute positively this time. Meanwhile, when the ears are opened, when the perceptions are opened, we start to do the right thing a little bit further from the tradition of not saying what the opposition says two times two. For example, we've said a lot about this stuff, we've said a lot about it. After the incident at Ermenek, there is help to be given - similar to the soma. This is from the unemployment fund. For one thing, we're totally against it. We think the unemployment fund is a piggy bank for the bad days of the unemployed worker; we don't think it's reality. We compared it to a child in the Commission, and we tried to explain it to the Minister in the simplest way, and we said, "Friends, the piggy bank is the child's piggy bank." This issue is independent of who put the money in it, can increase its allowance, can give it to his own father or collect it from his relatives during the holidays. Once the money's in the piggy bank, it's the kid's money. When you as a father said to your child, "I will buy you a new pair of shoes when your shoes are old and the festival is come, the child rejoices. " Bring on the holiday day, let's open this piggy bank, and we'll buy you a pair of shoes from inside of it. If you say, "It's not your job as a father." You pay the workers a fee, you pay them in the unemployment fund. He's the employee's piggy bank, there's no need to weaken it. We've told him so much about this objection, Mr. Secretary didn't accept it. On the contrary, they made a mistake. These funds, which were paid from the unemployment fund, were later collected from the company, and in that collection, you were saving money for the treasure. So, when you give it to them, you give it to them from the kid's piggy bank, and when you throw it back, you save them for the treasure. And Çelebi spake much of it; and Izzet Çetin spake many things: and the hair of the thrower of the moon ran out, and my throat was cut like this, and we could not make him hear. But when the pressure of time was imposed on that non-governmental culture of reconciliation, the perceptions opened, and we got to the point where he was telling the truth, my friends. The motion is that the right to hand over this money to the unemployment fund again in case of a crisis. But the point is, if you promise to do something to the worker, the prime minister of the age, the current president, the head of state, on the most painful day, don't worry, our state is strong, our government has a conscience. The wounds will heal quickly. We'll pay you six months if we have to. I'll do it. Once he says it, you'll do it like a government. Then, when it comes to doing that, I don't pay from the treasure, I pay from the unemployment fund. It's a piggy bank, whether it's the state that puts the money in it, whether it's the employer or the employee. Handing over that piggy bank is not compatible with the understanding of government administration, with our state traditions, and with the simple, clear example that I just described. The worker's money belongs to the worker. If the government's going to be a state, if the father's going to be a father, he's going to have to show it from his own pouch. There are many similar proposals. We are also opposed to giving the unemployment fund a hand for double routes, and we are opposed to receiving state commitments in such cases. The Fund for Unemployment must be used in accordance with its true purpose. Arguing is also a sign of what will happen when the Minister throws him away. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0117par0193	Thank you, Mr. Special. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The amendment to the last sentence of Article 29 of the bill is estimated to be appropriate when the payment from the unemployment benefit Fund is collected from the employer. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with these motions, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals on the 30th article, both of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th article of the current law bill 687 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Aytuğ Thrower Ramadan Kerim Özkan Sinan Aygün Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Süleyman Çelebi Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0118par0216	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0117par0217	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0119par0219	Mr. President, dear friends, in Congress -- maybe today will be completed, maybe tomorrow -- we've always contributed to important laws, and we've actually contributed to the government's vault. Unnecessary, undeserving... you know, it's an incentive. It's a beautiful substance about women's incentives for young people's employment. We, the Republican People's Party, are a party that promotes all kinds of jobs and contributes to all the suggestions that have been made. What's the problem here? I thank you for your sensibilities when this clause is brought in, our members of the Commission, those who contributed to this process. It was an arrangement that gave forgiveness to businessmen who took their money, even though they didn't do this kind of work, even though she didn't do the job, even though she didn't do the young man's job. It was an arrangement that pardoned 77 million liras from the government's vault, 77 quadrillion liras from the old money. Now, at the point of today's arrival, at least we've cleared the pardon. We discussed it for three hours with the people on the committee. I also want to thank friends here who contribute and show sensitivity. But, in the end, there's interest left. So, in fact, even though they got this money wrongly, we're suggesting that the interest of this money should not be erased, even though it's been unfairly earned. So -- our problem -- is that I see resistance to regulations that would contribute to the government in this sense, in terms of $5 million, $10 million, $20 million -- in this sense, in terms of working people, but I'm also giving you once again appreciation for how we're sensitive we are to the loss of the state in this regard. If we had passed this clause as it was, the government would have given 76 million to the capital that was unfairly profiting. This is where we stand as Republican People's Party, dear friends. That's where we stand against unfair gains, or we're never opposed to incentives, employment. But we don't compromise on unfair gain by making it look like it was done even though it wasn't done. We fought back on that. I would like to once again thank my friends -- the result of our resistance -- who have contributed to this, and who did not transfer the government's vault to another location in this sense -- from this platform. But I also wanted to tell you from this stand how this law came to be in such an arrangement, in such a logical way. Because there are many such regulations in this law, and we will say so as we come to it. This is what we do to get a footnote, to make a note of history. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0120par0224	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. This clause, which violates the basic principles of the state of law and the rule of law, calls for "necessary benefit" with the amendment. "A miscalculation of the average number of insured" is a motive that cannot be determined. This "forbearable clause for employers " clearly undermines the unemployment benefit fund. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 30 is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers 31 to 60 ▪ Articles. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker to speak on behalf of the group on the second chapter is Manisa MP Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0121par0236	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a commitment to the second chapter. There's a lot of stuff in the second section. As I have just stated, as the Republican People's Party... First, a research commission established in parliament by the ruling party before the May 13th disaster; a soma law proposal given to the Prime Minister and the ministers to ensure that the situation in Soma could never happen again; a sad, deeply wounded, heart-burning disaster, followed by the ruling party's motion; and then a Soma law proposal, given to the Prime Minister of the era, as promised by the ministers, and dated 30 May 2014, so that the situation in Soma would never happen again. On that day, everyone in Turkey, and especially the miners in Somah, felt that the promises of the state had been made to him would be kept, that their wounds would be quickly healed, that the state of the Republic of Turkey would never allow a similar disaster to happen again, and we were all prepared to give the government and bureaucracy the necessary support. On May 30th, when these promises were made, miners were doing a sit-in in Soma, and the vice presidents of the ruling party, officials from the public communication department, the MPs, a ten-member delegation came to Soma, and they gave the news, and they said: "We will solve all your problems. We were there, watching from one side. The miners asked: "When are you going to solve it?" said Salih Kapusuz: "We will solve it in five or six days, in a week." At that time, there were side warnings, Mr. Kapusuz said on the day of the Assembly." Ten Capitol days, three days a week, three weeks at a time. So the miners put an end to the sit-ins, and that ten Assembly days turned into a hundred calendar days. As the 18-point bill stood on one side, from increasing accession share in the third repeat of IVF application, etcetera, to reversing the property tax in the county, he entered into the Commission's report. We said, "Let's separate the Soma clauses, let's discuss 18 clauses, and all the opposition parties said it separately, and the power refused." The promises made in Adeta Soma have been held as hostages to spend some of his own arrangements, such as, for example, two years in the legal process of fighting parallel structures -- which would later be corrupted by the Constitutional Court. The opposition said soma. You said other things, but it didn't pass until September 10th. It was passed on September 10th. When it became legal, we looked back -- if we put the words into three categories -- the commitments to the families of the miners who lost their lives were relatively proportional to the others. The promises to current miners were partially kept. But not one of the commitments made to the health and safety of the workers was kept, nor was there a barley in that regard. Aside from the fact that these arrangements were not being made, the Soma Commission was working on one side. He worked on the sacrifices of lawmakers from four parties, with the incredible dedication of Manisa MPs, with the sacrifice of all lawmakers in the Commission. A 1,250-page report has been written, a report that can't be ignored. In the report, there were parts of the opposition that said, "Let's write. " But before the report was written, let it not happen again, before we were able to reveal the will of Parliament concerning Soma. Ermenek happened while we were lingering on that subject. After Ermenek, there seemed to be a bit more sensitivity, a law on Ermenek, and here is the extension of that law, and some of the promises made to Ermenek are being kept here. But what's sad, what's troubling, what's upsetting us all is that the Soma Commission is a 17-member Commission with four parties. You know, with 47 per cent of the ruling party in the last election, I'm taking one of the two people's votes. He says he sees the power to change the regime in the country, and he's basing the defence on the national will behind this commission, if you look at Parliamentary arithmetic, it's 100 per cent, and I think it's already had a 94% reflection to the House. Four parties are here in agreement, four parties have lawmakers, 1,250 pages of agreement, and 135 pages of proposals for solutions. In fact, we said, there's a 135-page solution proposal, that our bureaucracy gets tired, that it gets sad, that it can be a little detailed, that we've got 13 pages of summary, that they look here first, that they'll find the detail inside. The Mining Law will come out, we're waiting for the Mining Law, of course, but let's hand over to Commissioner Ali Reza Alaboyun, who's so far ahead of him, we've got to get the Mining Ministry together because the Energy Ministry takes energy based on output, but, of course, it sees resources as a subsidiary element, an entry, so it can't focus on it. We had a proposal to set up a mining ministry, in itself. The law of coal was 5,000 pages in America, and we studied Ukraine, about 3,000 pages. The laws of coal in various countries around the world are thousands of pages, and the laws on coal in Turkey are 19 pages from 18.5. We've suggested a thorough study here. Furthermore, the explosion was thought to have been triggered by the ministry's lack of control over an ancient production field of gases and gases, the abandonment of that area, and the use of non-fire-releasing devices in the field. So something had to be done to the gases in the old productions. This issue of old manufacturing came to us as a pool of water at the Warning Mine in Ermenek. So you should've seen what was in the production you left behind. For gasses, methane drainage was an essential factor to be considered. We've agreed on these things, we've said. On the way out of the Mining Act, we went to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources commission, and we looked at it, and the cover of the Soma Commission report hasn't been removed. We said, "How does that happen?" They said, "He's studying the Bureau, we'll look at it, we'll do it later." We went to the place where this law would be passed, and our dear bureaucrat friend, who was acting as minister that day, said he couldn't access the Soma Commission report. Thirty-five days before that word was said, all the press had it, and Mr. Alaboyun had it out for the press, but they didn't have access to the report. At the coming point, we're closing the House, we're about to sign a common destiny and a common grief in the 23rd term. After the accident in 2010, my hand set up a research commission, which wrote a fine report, which closed before I could discuss that commission report, which was established in 2010 in the 23rd term. Then we waited until Soma came along and we set up a commission again. We're very sorry that the commission's report, as it was in the 23rd period, without opening its page, without having to discuss it, without being able to discuss it here, without having to say their ten minutes of thought, without our members coming here one by one and expressing their own thoughts, and that's the worst thing that we're saying, is that it's being taken into consideration and closed from law. In the 25th century, I have a concern. We've shared your destiny, but let the 25th term not share our grief. Please, someone has to be discreet now, act with the seriousness of the state, and the regret and grief that this Commission report has not been evaluated in the next Parliament. We, the Republican People's Party, pledge to bring this Commission report to Parliament by law by the relevant ministries in the rule of the Republican People's Party, the first thing that will be established, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0122par0246	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0123par0250	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the second part of the Law on Change in Business Health and Safety Act 687. I salute the General Assembly. According to the bill, the employer, whose flaw was determined by a judicial decision at the mine workplaces in which the fatal business accident occurred, is banned from participating in public tenders for two years by the court. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk about subcontractorization, production coercion and redevelopment, among the main reasons for the work killings in the mines. Subcontractorization, union rights violations against workers, economic and social loss, as well as the deaths of workers. In particular, excessive ambition and in control invite mining accidents, resulting in subcontractorization in the mining sector in a very primitive way. The other issue is production coercion. The more coal the mining companies extract at least cost, the more they earn. And so, even when the workers breathe for five minutes, they create a hell of labor, where they are rushed to work. In addition, with the redevans system, the public-owned mines have been indirectly privatised, and these special attempts to subcontract the public have been presented with great public opportunities. The bill includes a number of partial and inadequate improvements on labour health and job safety, while regulations for employers which bring a large number of pardons and postponements and prompt workers to work under flexible conditions. As the bill was being drafted, the opinion of labour and trade organisations was not received, but the bill was no longer a labour health and safety package, and it became a package of forgiveness for employers, flexibility for workers. He's allowed mass labor massacres. It's not a deterrent for a company to be deprived of contracts for two years. It's best the Minister of Labor knows that by not bidding for two years, it can't become a company that cares about human health. Dear lawmakers, the bill is incapable of preventing labor killings. Turkey faces a very negative picture in terms of working life, which both the government and the public must focus on with extraordinary precision. He's the highest in the world in business killings, labor killings. In particular, in terms of business accidents that increased with AKP's arrival in power, the average three workers lost their lives in 2003, while the number was up to between 5 and 7 workers today. The average number of occupational accidents is around 75,000 per year, from the 2004 acceptance of ILO contracts 55 and 161 to the adoption of the Law on Occupational Security in 2010. At least 14.668 workers were killed during the 12 years of AKP government's rule. At least 1,886 workers lost their lives in business accidents during 2014 alone. Business killings have been concentrated in construction, mining, agriculture and transportation in the fields of business; seasonal work is dominated by ununioned, unorganised and unsecured working conditions. Occupational illness is the hidden epidemic of the age. The most business killings in Turkey have occurred in Manisa, where there has been a major mining massacre. Again, in Istanbul, which is the centre of the industry, and in almost every sector, there has been a busy job murder. Agriculture in Zonguldak, Karaman, Isparta, Elazığ and Şırnak; mining and organised industry in Antalya; chemistry in Adana, Düzce, Isparta, Mugla, Aydın, Şanlıurfa and Mersin; agriculture in Ankara, Gaziantep, Tekirdağ, Samsun, Malatya, Kayseri, and Mersin; chemical accidents in Koneeli; food and shipyards in Turkey. Murders in agriculture, construction, energy, transport, municipal, trade and education are being committed in every city in the country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have dominated both the National Employment Strategy and the National Industrial Strategy strategy, which threatens wages, severance, social rights, job security, labour health and labour safety measures, growth and stability. This fundamental approach to workers continues to be the key policy in increasing business killings. This bill distributes the obligations on the Ministry of Labor, providing employers with the possibility of a total lack of punishment. If the bill is legalized in this manner, it will be possible for employers who have handed over their obligations to various companies in the market conditions. In such a process, it is easy to say that the trend of business accidents will continue by improving. Mr. President, good lawmakers, in order to ensure the full extent of the safety and health of workers, Unions No. 6356, which is free and democratic, should be reorganised, a liberal and participant democratic arrangement must be carried out. The ability of labour health and safety measures to be supervised in implementation is through trade unions to develop democratic control systems directly through labour control. This is the most important of the conditions for employee health and safety to be active at the operating level. Mr. President, good lawmakers, this bill allows workers to work at night in 11 hours. The night hours, which are open to extreme violations, appear to be a new element that threatens labor health. The workers in the services and agriculture sector will not be paid overtime unless workers are able to work for 11 hours at night and 45 hours a week. Although this arrangement is in line with the European Union directives, it is not in line with the European Parliament and the Council's directive. According to Article 8 of the directive, normal working hours should not exceed eight hours per twenty-four hours in any 24 hours, while their work should not work more than eight hours during any 24 hours during which heavy physical and mental pressure or special danger is carried out by night workers. However, there is no difference between the bill and the work of all workers who work non-industrial, and the work of day and night can increase their working hours by 11 hours. Precious lawmakers are a universal concept used to define all rights against child rights, legal or moral rights, education, health care, housing, physical, psychological, or sexual exploitation, such as the rights of all children on the planet. This bill allows all children who are not 14 years old to be able to work in art, culture and advertising, five to 30 hours a week, leading to intensive child labor exploitation. The bill is neither in accordance with international directives nor contracts. Mr. President, it is absolutely unacceptable that Turkey, which defines itself as a democratic, social law state in the Constitution, would turn its back on international contracts that are seeking to ensure the safety of workers, human rights and freedoms, human and environmental health. In this context, I once again remind the General Assembly that there is a need for more comprehensive regulations to ensure an environmental and social development that envisions an international scientific and technical basis for mining and the safety of workers, and with that feeling and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0124par0267	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Konya MP Faruk Bal. Mr. Honey, you have a request on your behalf, if you'd like to join them. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0125par0272	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I ask for the mercy of my colleague, Istanbul prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in the end of a treacherous attack. Also, we have lost Kayahan. A master of Turkish pop art, God rest his soul, and bless his loved ones. Yes, I am grateful and grateful for the late Prime Minister, whom we have missed for 18 years. Turkey's political life needs its glorious perspective. And I pray unto our late high priest, the Lord of God, that his abode may be in heaven, and his grave may be filled with light. My dear friends, the National Movement Party, in the 24th term when we came to the end, has spoken what they know is true, stood behind every word they believed, and has been opposed in a positive or negative way by judging the laws that the government has brought in, in its own political opinion, in support of its proposals. The National Movement Party generally favours this bill. Talks have been made from a positive point of view by Mr. Minister, especially in the business world, in business security and in business peace. In general, the National Movement Party has criticised this bill for the fact that the bag is the law, but it looks positive and gives its support. I believe there should be an accounting in the 24th term on this occasion. The 2011 elections had a constitutional amendment on Turkey's agenda. Our nation was waiting for a constitution to get rid of the Constitution of September 12th coup, to be at peace with democratic values, to strengthen the unity and brotherhood, to extend fundamental rights and freedoms. Mr. President, a Constitutional Compromise Commission was finally established on the initiative of the Speaker of Parliament in the speech of State Gardenlı in 2007 and 2010. Dear lawmakers, this Commission has adopted the most accurate and reasonable working methods in the history of the republic and has made a serious effort to get people to contribute to the constitution. Within this framework, more than 20,000 pages of vision, proposals, and proposals could at least be collected as data pools. There are five separate chapters in the constitution, as you know. One of these chapters includes basic rights and freedoms; the second is legislation, the third is execution, the fourth is judgment, and the fifth is general administration. As talks were held on this minor, a major success was achieved in chapter one, which was agreed on 60 articles after the meeting of 82 articles. This would probably have spooked the AKP, which, in order to disrupt the environment of the understanding, the presidential system has proposed a freak under the name. And since the presidential system is fundamentally different from the parliamentary system, the presidential system has been placed in front of the Constitutional Compromise Commission. It is not a system that AKP has called the presidential system. It's a system that the President now states is a system that will govern one person by disrupting the mechanisms of balance and control, which he calls "rescue." See, how does the system that AKP has proposed under its presidential system create a one-man dictatorship? In the presidential systems, there is a separation of forces between the president and the legislature, and each election is made on different dates, so that the legislature, which will be built at the time of the president's election, will not be under the president's control and custody. This fundamental rule is violated by the AKP, the election of the president and the one-wing assembly will be held at the same time. If we were to review today's lobbying, press reports together, Mr. President is now asking for 400 MPs, and he has an office in Çankaya, where he will choose 400 MPs in the event that this happens. If this is true, if the presidential system is passed, if Recep Tayyip Erdogan is president, then how can this Parliament, the legislature, be a means of balance and control over the president? Something like this is against the nature of things. Thus, there is a legislature under the guardianship of the president, which, even if there is no other possibility, means that the Parliament of the Law plus the president equals dictatorship. But the AKP doesn't get enough of it. No matter what Congress does, it also gives the president the authority to issue a decree under the law. So by making a single signature decree, law enforcement, law enforcement, that gives you the authority to take away the main duty of the House. So the president, who described the tools we call the control tools as shackles, also wants to get rid of the judicial body according to AKP's proposal. He also sees the judicial body as a shackles, and look in that frame, what kind of proposal does he make for the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors? The president will appoint 16 of the 22 members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors to be appointed to parliament under his own influence, and 8 of the 17 members of the Constitutional Court will be elected President or Parliament under his guardianship, and will be able to appoint 1-quarter members of the Court and the Supreme Court. My dear friends, the essence, the word, the name is one, a system where powers are combined. The system where the forces meet is not only three words, but all those who know the Constitutional Law understand it. This is called a full-blown didictatorship. In such an environment, the AKP, which realized it could not bring the presidential system, drowned the constitutional work and prevented a new constitution, which the nation had expected from the 24th-century Parliament. My dear friends wanted to eliminate the Constitutional Compromise Commission, in effect, by not having the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey present the date of the meeting, as if he didn't do it himself, but three opposition parties noticed that the AKP has invited AKP to follow-up meetings, and since he did not show up, the AKP has been excluded from the Commission under the 15th Article of the Compromise Commission on Compromise. My dear friends, there have been terrible events at this time again. This is why I'm telling you that my fellow lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party can be taken away from this, but they need a conscience accounting. Because every mortal, every political life is mortal, and no one has ever sat in these seats. There are some of us, some of you, who are on the last day of Congress today, who will not be in the new era, and I'd like to invite you to a conscience accounting by reminding you of some of the key issues of Turkey, so that they can do accounting for those who will not be and those who will be. During this parliamentary period, the Turkish Armed Forces were framed. He is the Prime Minister of the period, the Prime Minister of the same period, who bent the judiciary enough to say "I am the mastermind of that conspiracy" and provoked such a judicial operation on the Armed Forces. During this period, my dear friends, there are 27 claims that the Prime Minister was assassinated by the Internet. For God's sake, the Prime Minister will be assassinated and there will be no forensic consequences; is that possible? So even the alleged assassination of the Prime Minister was used as a means of propaganda, and political morality was dragged into places in Turkey, thus derailed. Again, in this period, the brains of the Turkish Armed Forces have been entered. All pre-war, post-war, secret plans, including mobilization, were entered the crypto room, where the deputy prime minister was assassinated, and it turned out that there was no such thing at the end of the investigation. There is a claim that information obtained from the crypto chamber, which was later attempted by this assassination, has been served elsewhere, which is in the void. Such a tragic event should have been confiscated by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Again, during this period, the press has been under unprecedented pressure. Around 2,000 columnists, Ankara regional representatives, Istanbul regional representatives, reporters, etc. Threats have been issued to key media agencies due to financial and insurance inspections, and the press has been removed from being people's eyes, ears, and tongues. In this period, people have been created by ethnities, beliefs, professions, polarized, stubborn, contrasted, and an atmosphere of tension. Even Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, we may get some votes, but we can't understand why those who don't like us don't even have to make a self-criticism. Again, at this time, the Turkish shrine of Süleyman Shah, born of international law, was a Turkish land, and today the PKK extension was found in a region called Canton, where the PYD is the ruler, in which Abdullah Ocalan posters were buried. There is an international legal issue in Turkey that the Lausanne Agreement has laid out. 16 islands within the borders of our land waters, known as the unclaimed rock, have been occupied by Greece. The AKP government did not budge on these islands, which became a war issue in the 1990s. The murders have increased, the murder of women and children has increased, the abuses have increased; the bonzai and drugs have increased; the terrorist organization has increased; the terror organization has been legalized; the bandit in the mountain has landed in the city; he has set up a court, held a police meeting; he has appointed police forces; the governor has appointed, the flag has launched, the martyrdom; unemployment has exploded during this period. Out of 77 million, 8 million people are condemned to live below the poverty line, 46 million people are condemned to live below the poverty line. But in addition to that, the rich are well-off. There is no other country in the world that has increased the number of dollar billionaires in 12 years, which is in Turkey. Turkey raised four dollar billionaires in 2002 to 37, as of this year. So the AKP has created a billionaire who feeds on the inn without looting. In this kind of power, the AKP group has not been able to balance, control, or control the government that it created within its own party code. If he had asked his own ministers for an account, we wouldn't have to answer to the four ministers. If he had to answer to the children of his own ministers, this Congress wouldn't be so nervous. It's your account as much as it is ours for money that can't be reset. You didn't ask for this account, we asked for it, and I hope you all get it on June 7th. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish my friends the best of their lives that will not be among us in the coming period of the day's reckoning. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey next semester, I respectfully extend to all of you that the Turkish nation will have a more efficient working environment.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0126par0300	Thank you, Mr. Honey. In the name of the government, Mr. Steel. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0127par0304	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we have concluded the first chapter of the bill concerning the Health and Safety Act, which includes important regulations for working life. I thank all the friends who contribute, and thank the political party groups. As you know, in this chapter one, we have assured business security expertise. Besides, we've brought in pre-producing regulations. We've brought a prison sentence to the business owner who opened the stopped business, who opened the sealed business. We've increased the criminal charges due to the neglect of occupational health and safety. We've brought in a no-trial arrangement, so we've brought in a two-year tender in the mines where there's been a fatal business accident. We've brought underground surveillance system, called the chip system, to our underground workers who work in the mines. We've arranged for three children to benefit from their income tax reduction. It includes an arrangement for putting vocational health classes in universities -- related universities. As a result of publicisation, we'd take away the victims here, which were paid to citizens, which were limited to the main money, which eliminates criminal charges caused by the demand of public funds. The MYK document obligation is both in the second part, and in the first part, we have made arrangements for professional competence, which means that one of our employees has hours to get a certificate of professional competence, has exams to do, and they have an arrangement for funding opportunities to be used, not from the employee, but from the fund, and from the owner of this document. In Ermenek, workers will be paid at a minimum wage of six months and two months in January, when the accident took place. In addition, monthly payments will be made to the workers in that area for three months, as a result of the trauma caused by the accident. Again, in this department, we're going to bring you a little bit of material in a little bit about business training. Here, at minimum wage level, if an employer employs a person, if he employs an additional employment, he will be paid at minimum wage for six months, and the employer will have no cost there, but the worker will have a job there with practical training. Thus, with this encouragement, we provide the opportunity for the worker to have a job as well as the opportunity to find a new job, to participate in employment. Thirty months, forty-two months, with an arrangement coming to you, which includes important incentives that will take place in forty-eight months and forty-two months. And in the next episode, we'll be back with some very important arrangements. And in this second chapter, I'd like to say that we're looking forward to your contribution. Once again, I thank you for contributing to these important arrangements, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0128par0320	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, let's move on to the QA section. Question and answer for 15 minutes. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0129par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, are you planning to remove the subcontractor, do you have any such work? Isn't the removal of this subcontractorship useful to our country? We'd like to get your thoughts on that. Second: As of today and yesterday, lawyers at İstanbul Çağan Courthouse are unfortunately being bullied, not allowed in the courts. However, the prosecutor, who was martyred by terrorist organizations, is being cited as the motive. I mean, the gun in the courthouse, the handcuffs in, the banners in, that's motive. Now, the point here is to silence lawyers. If this is shown, then the lawyer is an integral part of the judiciary, so is the prosecutor, the judge, and so is the lawyer. A year ago, a judge in the Falls Courthouse fell in love with a secretary there, took her hostage. There's been no procedure regarding him, about the judges, about the prosecutors. However, at this point, it is not incompatible with the state of law to make lawyers look potentially guilty. Do you have any work on this? Have you had any talks with the Istanbul Attorney General? We'd like to know what you're working on. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0130par0328	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0131par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, perhaps it's not directly your concern, but there was an electrical blackout two or three days ago across Turkey. Still, unfortunately, the Republic of Turkey has not found the government, but has taken refuge in some grounds. But I'd like to share one thing with you: the most affected province in Turkey is the one that is found as the heart of the industry. About 70 million Turkish liras, according to SMEs, mid-level investors, the industrial chamber determined the damage. Could you be involved in such a program as taking responsibility for the damage of these SMEs, employers, or medium-scale areas as government? I have a second question: The Joint Health and Safety Unit was established during your administration on occupational medicine. As a result of the established Joint Health and Safety Unit, the workplace physicians were removed from their workplaces, particularly institutionalised, and a shorter-term, cheaper-quality, less-than-appropriate working environment has discredited physicians. In particular, rather than finding out whether working workers are suitable for the work environment, how accurate do you think it is to be brought to the point where patients who are going to the USSR or the SGK are to be blocked? Do you have any work to do to prevent that? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0132par0334	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0133par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is no high school here -- even though there are elementary schools and secondary schools -- a dense population -- in the district of Üskudar, Istanbul. Second: The Yavuzturk neighborhood has been promised a settlement of the development problem in the Yavuzturk neighborhood, which has been in your administration for many years, but so far the development issue of the Yavuzturk neighborhood has not been resolved. Another problem: Again, we have a municipal bus line in Yavuzturk neighborhood, but only old municipal buses work, new municipal buses don't work, our people are victims. Do you have any work on this? In the same way, we have Sultanbeyli County. When our people in Sultanbeyli are on the city bus in Mecidiyeköy, they travel an hour and a half until they arrive in Sultanbeyli. There is no public toilet that can satisfy our citizen's need for toilets when he arrives in Sultanbeyli district. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, there's no service for the municipality in the square of a whole county. Do you intend to provide a service in this regard? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0134par0344	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0135par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're discussing the Health and Safety Act today. As you know, serious business accidents occur at Turkey's Taşkomuru Association, especially in areas with subcontractors. The last time we experienced suffering in Kilimli, Kozlu, is an example of this. In addition to subcontractorising pre-op operations in accidents, there is a huge share in the fact that the reduction of the number of employees has become a threat to job security. So, now, the number of workers underground has become a serious threat to the security underground. There's a request for 3,200 workers in the institution's headquarters. Do you, as a Labour Minister, consider hiring workers to ensure at least the safety of the work there? Do you have any work on that with the Department of Energy?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0134par0348	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0136par0350	Mr. President, thank you. In public and other areas, service in the field of service will, of course, continue, but we've arranged together on what areas of service will be available. Thus, subcontractor practices are disciplined. Troubles in this matter, in our view, have been eliminated. What is missing is the decision of the Council of Ministers. I have already stated that once the decision of the Council of Ministers is announced on which areas to serve in, we will all see that the proceedings on this matter are over. There are no subcontractors in the private sector or in other areas, which will not be subcontracted in the enterprises run by the private sector or received by the tender, which is where we put this arrangement when we took out the Mining Law. Thus, the subcontractor application will no longer be carried out by the private sector in our institutions. Also, underground studies, of course, are a very important and dangerous area in the mine. For the rest of my life, I'm the Minister of Labor, where structural problems have to be solved in absolute terms; the new Mining Law allows it, and hopefully our underground mining enterprises will soon have to solve structural problems, and businesses have to be technologically weighted. We need to get a sense of technology rather than in high-risk places with a lot of people underground, so we don't have to go through that kind of pain. We don't say it, the world did it this way, took these steps, and the pain doesn't exist in many countries anymore, and Turkey has to use technology. Today, the changes of the Mining Law and measures related to the health and safety of the work brought by us are arrangements that will quickly bring Turkey into that league. Joint health care agencies, of course, are taking important jobs in the field of occupational health and safety, but we have a CSI unit about whether the environment is healthy and whether it is the cause of occupational illness. I mean, is our worker working in a really healthy environment that makes measurements, or is our worker working, or is it in an unhealthy environment over the values that should be, in our Ministry of Technology, we have mobile teams. And so businesses are prepared for the work of our workers in a healthy environment. Besides, what happened at the Casing Courthouse, and what happened after that, and some other developments, were the questions of our dear friends about the power cuts. I find it extremely appropriate for our fellow ministers to answer these questions, and I say I'll pass them along. Mr. Tanal has expressed some problems with Yavuzturk neighbourhood. Of course, right now, our neighborhoods may have problems, but Mr. Tanal has been causing problems in areas that are heavily required for two days. These, of course, I believe, have been brought to the attention of local executives. From your speeches in the provinces and in the House, I'd say they'd learn a lesson from them. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0137par0358	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Since we have a little more time, Mr. Kaleli has entered the system. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0138par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country, employment safety and health must also be supported by production and increased capacity use in order to maintain the rights of labour. Because as costs go up, the employer unfortunately has to take his share of the labor and the right of the labor. In fact, the privatised companies are hurting. On the grounds that they are supported, incentives are required. The union's rights and the union's preferences are challenged. Pressures are also increasing that will result in the dismissal of work. Are you taking any precautions regarding the increase in production, the rise in competitiveness? Otherwise, all these regulations will remain unmanageable and suspended. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0139par0364	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0140par0366	Mr. Secretary, as you know, you know that our fellow graduates who work in public institutions and institutions of permanent labor are well aware of the demands of our brothers and sisters to become officers, and I know that you have a lot of work to do at the point of resolving the victims. In the meantime, this may not be the case of the bill, but at this point in the future, may I ask, if our brothers and sisters who work in permanent labor staff want to do so, where are we at this point in time? Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0139par0368	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0141par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what's our last retirement number? That's my first question. My second question is, what are the number of pensioners who are retired and employed and who have been cut out of their 15% salary?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0142par0373	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0143par0375	Thank you. Let's start at the end. The number of our pensioners is 10 million 900,000, in a person's case, in a right-owner's case -- I'm not saying the percentage. 15 percent... so with a commercial activity, the number of people who are busy after retirement is 630. In another question, Mr. Kaleli asked, "Do you make an arrangement here regarding the support of my production? And about that, you know, yesterday, our Prime Minister has explained our new incentive system, as well as the incentives we've been doing since long ago, to increase both employment and production. Before that, we applied a regional incentive system. For many years, we have developed a truly unfair understanding of development in Turkey, an understanding of development between regions that does not uphold justice, a sense of regional development, incentive to eliminate inequality between regions, and Turkey has achieved significant gains in this regard. Now, with new regulations, the goal is to increase production again. If employment is desired, production must be made. These are an inextricable duo, to evaluate the employer and the worker with the logic of the 20th century, the thought, the perspective, the industrial relationship, which you appreciate is not true. So from a new point of view, we need to be judged as an indistinguishable duo of labor relations, to protect the right of labor and to achieve a sense of production that is competitive in the world markets, which, as the government knows, will consolidate that understanding, and I offer to your appreciation, which will not crush them in labour, much more than inflation, the increase of revenue, but also a lot of incentives to increase production on the other side. On the other hand, Mr. Oz, they've issued a request regarding the workers from the university. That's right, we're getting those demands. Our college graduate brothers and sisters have a request to be employed as workers. Many demands like this are ahead of us, but I hereby state that we are trying to resolve them in a row. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0144par0381	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. Members of parliament, the Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends have come to our office for a motion on the new clause violation. Under the new clause, workers who were laid off while working at Soma-Eynes Mining January are expected to be hired as workers for the Turkish Coal Company. However, it is not part of the draft bill, which is discussed under Code 399, in which the proposal for the arrangement is to be added. The possibility of any amendment proposals for a amendment to a amendment to a law or law decree that does not exist in the draft text is not possible according to Article 87 of the Civil Code. That's why we can't process this motion. It's for your information. Now, there's a motion for a new substance violation. I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins in the motion with a majority of 14 people, I will open a meeting on the motion/ as a new clause, and if the Commission does not agree with the majority, I will remove the motion from the process. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Bill of the Law shall be adopted by the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 687, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Hilmi Bilgin Abdulkerim Gök Fehmi Cube The following temporary clause has been added to the Law 31-4447. "For those who are under the age of 18 and under the age of 29 who have completed business training programmes launched by the Turkish Business Agency until 31/12/2016; A) the completion of the program by private sector employers in which they completed the programme in three months at the latest and the hiring of the first part of Article 4 of the Law 5510 (a) and B) In addition to the average number of monthly premiums and service documents reported from the workplace in the year before they were hired, 42 months of employment in the manufacturing sector, and in other sectors, the first joke of Article 81 of Law 5510 (perpetuated) will be covered by the share of the insurance premiums in the employer's shares, and the amount of the premium amount set by the same Law under Article 82 is covered by the lower limit. The duration of this joke is increased by six months for participants in business training programs starting from 30/06/2015. Businesses operating in the manufacturing industry, which will benefit from support as part of the first joke, are determined by the Ministry, taking into account the Statistical Classification of European Community Economic Actions according to its workings. It is imperative that employers give their monthly premium and service documents to the Social Security Agency during their legal time under Law 5510 to pay for the employer's share in the Fund, the amount of insurance premiums that hit the insurance premiums of the entire insurance policy, and the amount that is not covered by the Treasury and Fund must not be owed to the Social Security Agency due to the amount of the legal time of the employer's share, and due to the employment of the covered insurance provider, there should be no bonuses, administrative fines and delays due to them. The premium to the Social Security Institution, the administrative fine and the tardiness and delay hike on these do not prevent employers from taking advantage of this joke sentence, as long as bonus debts are redistributed and earmarked according to Article 48 of Law 6183 or under other laws concerned. In control and audits, employers who have been identified as not reporting their employees as insured cannot benefit from the benefits provided by this clause for a year. These provisions of the state administration shall not be applied in accordance with the Admissions and Insurance Act No. 8/9/1983, State Relations Act 4/1/2002, and Public Relation Act 4734, which is an exception to the purchase and productions of Article No. 5/4/2005 and Article 4735, which is the second joke in Article 30 of the Law. The premiums paid from the Fund are not paid in income and institutional tax applications or considered as a cost factor. The Council of Ministers is authorized to postpone the date for one year and to 31/12/2018 at the most. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the Ministry." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission has joined the motion with a majority, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0145par0412	Mr. President, the matter we're discussing is a motion by the Justice and Development Party Group in order to fulfil a commitment in a package of incentives that Prime Minister Davutoglu announced to the public a few days ago. Of course, with this motion, we have a positive view of this substance abuse. It is unthinkable that the Republican People's Party would not support an arrangement brought in for incentives. However, I'd like to discuss the matter in a slightly wider context. The aim of the proposal is to provide insurance premiums for those who create new jobs in Turkey to encourage employment. Dear friends, if it were possible for an economy to create employment with just an incentive package, the Justice and Development Party governments have released a package of incentives so far that we can call countless, but these incentive packages have never increased employment in Turkey. When the Justice and Development Party was in power in 2002, the unemployment rate in Turkey was 10.3 per cent; Turkey now has 10.9% unemployment in Turkey. The two digits cannot be compared statistically to each other. It can be said that the two numbers have changed the method of computation. It's impossible to compare the old to the new, since TİK didn't publish the old data with the new method of computing, but if TİK doesn't publish the old, there's nothing else we can do, we'll compare the old and the new to this again. Dear lawmakers, in Turkey's rule of the 13-year Justice and Development Party, unemployment has not been reduced, on the contrary, it has increased. Currently, in Turkey, according to TÜİK (TİK) figures, 5 million, 633,000 people are unemployed, the official number of unemployed, and the number of others that we will add to it will be 5 million, 673. When he says the official number of unemployed, TÜİK uses a method of computing: He considers those who are unemployed to be unemployed. And there are those who are not looking for jobs because they have no hope of finding a job, not counting that number of unemployed ones, showing it as a separate group, not in the unemployed group. In fact, this should be included in the unemployed group. There are about 2.5 million unemployed like this, and there are about 2,400,000 unemployed like this. Again, seasonal workers are accepted by the employer; but they are seven months of the year, eight months of the year, nine months of the year; whatever it is, they are unemployed, they are unemployed, they are unemployed; they are not unemployed. Five million, six hundred and seventy-three when we put them all together. Now, on the one hand, there are 5,673,000 unemployed in Turkey, and on the other hand, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister, explaining a package after a package to encourage employment. In November and December, two packages were announced, including a total of 25 precautionary packages -- not enough -- and now, again, he announced the package, and there are 11 measures here, totaling 36. 36 measures, if I ask you now, if I ask the citizens, if I ask the citizens of the business world, if I say which of the Prime Minister's incentive packets remained in your mind, no one will remember because they're packets of incentives like soap foam, whose life span is the size of a soap bubble. The Prime Minister likes them, puts their ministers to each other... the last seven ministers to his right and to his left, and Mr. Faruk Çelik was there, trying to fill the weakness, weakness of this package with seven ministers. Mr. Prime Minister, if you'd like to sit next to the entire Council of Ministers, your package can't be an incentive package again, it's empty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, the Prime Minister is contradicting himself. On 23 January 2015, he made a statement in Zurich. Turkey praises its economy. Of course, we'd be happy to have our economy praised abroad, if we had a situation to brag about. Even if we don't have the situation to brag about, the economy of Turkey is good. We'll be happy if he does. Of course, the prime ministers will go and say, "It's good," whether it's bad or not, it's the Prime Minister's job to promote the economy and invite investors to Turkey. However, the Prime Minister uses a sentence there -- I remind you again of history, January 23, 2015 -- says: "If Europeans need a job, now there is a big Turkey that could be a business door for them, come to Turkey." According to official figures in Turkey, 5 million,633,000 people are unemployed, Prime Minister Davutoglu calls Europeans to Turkey, and he says, "Come, there is work in Turkey." In fact, Mr. Prime Minister has sent a bill to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to ensure that foreigners are employed in Turkey on February 9, 2015, not even a month after he said that in Zurich, I'm actually putting an exclamation mark on this statement. The goal is that Turkey has enormous jobs, foreigners come to Turkey and work in Turkey. He's not a technical man in any area, so anyone can come to Turkey and work. He came to the council, the commission made an agenda. When Mr. Kilicdaroglu introduced this bill to the public at the Republican People's Party group meeting, the government backed down, didn't bring it. Now, intent, this bill -- I mean, they're not going to be able to do it -- the Justice and Development Party, if the government wins the elections, if the government wins the elections, will bring it, but you won't get this chance, you won't get this opportunity, people won't give you this opportunity. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now he's got a motion here. Mr. Prime Minister has instructed the group to submit a motion. For what? Let's encourage employment in Turkey. Why? Turkey has unemployment. In Turkey, according to official figures, there are 5,673,000 unemployed. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you bring in a bill for the employment of foreigners in Turkey when you're so unemployed, and attempt to enforce this bill? The Prime Minister uses one more sentence at the meeting he announced this package, which is very interesting: there is a perception that there is unemployment in Turkey. • Mr. Prime Minister, what perception, the truth, the truth. Doesn't the Prime Minister look at TİK figures? If an economy doesn't grow, if production doesn't increase, if it doesn't create added value, there's no employment; there's the problem. Now I'd like to give you some numbers. The former Prime Minister, the current President, Mr. Erdogan, has passed through the age of apprentice, phalanx, mastery, now that Mr. Davutoglu is beginning, let's face it, he won't be able to pass this apprentice, but I see so. Now, let me summarize Mr. Erdogan's years of apprentice, phalanx, mastery in terms of economic growth. Growth rate in developing countries in 2003-2007 -- including Turkey -- in countries similar to us -- average figure -- 7.7 per cent annually; Turkey 6.9. Turkey is behind the average of developing countries when money is the most abundant in the world. I don't compare China to India, I don't compare them to Turkey behind the league. Kalfalik period: Development countries have an annual growth average of 5.6 per cent; Turkey is 3.3 per cent; it is half. So our growth rate has dropped as we move from apprentice to protege. Now, the mastery period is 2012-2014. Development countries are 4.7%; Turkey is 3%. The government screwed up in class. He's bringing it here now, trying to create a perception that I'm going to increase employment with some fake scrolling packages. No one believes that. My fear, my concern, Mr. Davutoglu will never get rid of his apprentice, and the economy of Turkey will also crawl. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0146par0425	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Akchay. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0147par0429	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, there's usually an expression: it's not useful, but it's not a good thing. It's an arrangement that doesn't come in handy. But it also reminds us of a Nasrettin Hodja joke: Nasrettin Hoxha is in debt, giving his creditors a bag of thorn seeds. It shall be planted on the side of the highways, and it shall be sold after it, and after it shall be put on the leaves of the sheep, and upon the goats. And when we look at the motive, it's more than just trying to seem like he's doing something, pre-election, election eve, it's about propaganda. An arrangement that will contribute nothing to the economy or unemployment. Now, people get fired from their jobs, jobs, jobs. On 1 December 2014, a total 2,831 mining worker was fired in Soma. After the meeting of the Council of Ministers on December 1st, the government's spokesman, Mr. Bkent Arinc, said exactly as follows: "We will not leave our workers hungry and exposed. Of course, we will solve their problems. • E, our workers have two basic problems. A person who gets fired has to have a job first. And secondly, they haven't received severance pay so far, they've been screaming about it for four months, and it hasn't been solved. Hopefully, with an arrangement coming in today, there's going to be a severance pay for the company's assets, the money, the workers' severance pay, and I hope it'll be done. But, the best way to do that was to be paid severance pay by the Turkish Coal Company, who owns the mine, while there are already judicial decisions. However, we wish to follow this arrangement to its solution. The sudden unemployment of 2,831 workers in Soma (the 105k) population is a major social and economic trauma. The workers are still in action, and many of these workers -- I think it was Atabaca, and here it is -- a few faces have begun to be employed in the mine. The court's decisions are also made that these workers are the employees of the original employer. And in order to comply with these, well, as a social state, that's what's going to be done with the material added now, and with the real arrangements, once they're done, they can be restored to the work of those who have lost their jobs and have lost their jobs, and that's what needs to be done. It's getting late at night. With these motions, we can, you know... We have some additional clause proposals brought to us, we're looking at them, we're expressing our views. In these last hours of the 24th-century activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we hope we don't get a midnight surprise. That's our wish every hour, every minute. Honestly, I'm kind of on edge, I still can't believe it, like, when, what's gonna happen? But hopefully...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0148par0436	Don't get on your toes, it's nothing. Relax, relax.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0147par0437	Mr. Recep, we can't trust you, but we can trust the Minister on this, we'd like to trust him on this, that he won't. But there's no way we can say we trust the Justice and Development Party Group on this one. I'm not talking to these thoughts here, I'm giving you all my regards.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0149par0440	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0150par0443	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. Again, we face an AKP proposal that does not find a permanent solution to problems, which shows a pre-election populist approach to a palliative solution. The reason for the motion here seems to have taken into account some of the concerns about employment, but -- I've just said that when you don't have general economic policies on the law -- when you don't have a proper policy on unemployment, when you don't have a serious job and production, you try to make a bonus with proposals to lure people before the election, you try to show populist approaches. But you know that these proposals you've brought don't have a lasting effect on increasing employment or ending unemployment. I mean, there's a severe disease in the body, and because of this disease, almost all the organs, all the systems are clawing through a severe disease, but you're trying to cure that pain with a painkiller, and you're trying to create a sense that it's like you've cured the disease. I want to express in particular that this is not the right approach. You'll all see what sad table we're dealing with when you've already discussed the current situation with unemployment. So, the official numbers may indicate an unemployment rate of around 10 per cent, but we know that the actual informal numbers are very, very high. Because a lot of people who are looking for a job, who have lost hope, who have lost hope in looking for a job, are not getting involved in those numbers. For a few months, you do not include the number of people you employ as subcontractors in municipalities or different institutions, while most of these employees spend most of the year unemployed. I mean, there are problems that don't work out by flipping numbers, twisting numbers, turning a number upside down here. After all, Turkey has a severe unemployment problem, and this government has no decent economic policy to resolve unemployment. The numbers say he's out of a job of over five million. But like I said -- when you go to the locals, I'm sure you're dealing with more yourself -- the real numbers are way, way above that. Now, when that's the case for the unemployed, it's as if there's something good for the workers, or employees are trying to create a perception that these current unemployed people have gotten away from their economic and social conditions, which is not true. So when I was talking about minimum wagers, I just said that in a country where the poverty limit is above 4,000 TL, where the hunger limit is based on 1,500 TL, you can't talk about the positive conditions of employees in a country where millions of minimum wagers live. This unemployed army is already being used as a threat to employees in some way. So we impose slavery on you, we employ you in the conditions of slavery, you have no job guarantees, we can lay you off at any time, you can't make a living on these wages, but you're doomed to it. Because if he opposes it, you're simply encouraging a system of slavery to continue in working life by making the waiting unemployed pool a threat. So when you bring in motions for these kinds of incentives, I wish you'd show the sensitivity you've shown to covered funds. Massive figures from covered funds, trillions, millions of dollars in new money flying through the air, but when it comes to the arrangements for the unemployed, the employees -- like I said -- you're trying to trick the public with some sort of palliative, partial arrangement. Now we know why you're doing this because the election is coming up, and the polls in the election are showing that you're having a rapid decline. Perhaps with a vote you can't imagine, you're growing increasingly anxious to experience the greatest ruin in history. That's why you think you're going to be able to keep Turkey's agenda at different points, winking at nationalist votes, and that's what they call populist approaches, but believe me, that's not the public's real agenda. A very serious bill for hunger, poverty, unemployment, corruption is being prepared for you, and we are confident that you will see this bill as a surprise in the June 7th election. And one of the things you've done during this election is you've got a knack for using social welfare opportunities, the state's public resources, as much as possible, in favor of the ruling party. In fact, you see better when you look at the population of the masses that benefit from unemployment and the conditions of workers, because people who don't need it don't have the will to get these benefits, they don't have the will to do that kind of effort, but when you look at it today, we're dealing with a population that needs social benefits by folding itself every year. During this period, during the election, you will deliver these benefits to the poor. We don't have any complaints about that either, so deliver it, but we don't think it's ethical for you to do it during the election period, especially if you fit it in a time frame at the time, these approaches are unethical. So I'll tell you from my own constituency: In the election in Bingol, in the last March, almost immediately after all the villages I visited, within three days, the resources of this tremendous Social Aid Foundation came to an end. Like I said, I mean, we take it as a positive, but there's been a state of awareness here. Even if you don't give these benefits out of your own pocket, and you sign these huge withdrawals about these benefits, there is a growing state of consciousness in the public that you have to give these benefits to the United Nations as an obligation imposed on backward countries or poor countries, and even if the government changes, these benefits will now be distributed uninterruptedly. So we think this consciousness, as I said, will provide you with an important surprise in the polls on June 7th. Of course, when we were talking about employees, we talked about the evil of the living conditions of the workers. We know the treatment you received during your 13 years of power to the worker who raised his objection to the evil of these conditions, who wanted to exercise his rights, who sought his rights. I'm afraid you've had your share of batons, pressure water, torture for the worker who raised his head. Your power has been subjected to police torture in the middle of the street, in areas, in areas, as much as in other rulings during the period; their strikes have been banned; when they went out to protest the strike ban, you did not hesitate to commit brutal police violence again. You constantly discussed the right to a meeting and demonstration as if it were an illegal activity. There it was again, a month later, less than a month later, five days later, the workers will want to celebrate on May 1st, the workers will want to celebrate in Taxi. As you have done so far, you will also try to gain the right to pay the wages of the laborer, which means a great deal to the workers, taking care of their own values, and giving them the right to pay for the sum of their rights that they have earned so far. Like I said, you can do all this, you're in power, but I want you to be prepared for the big bill for this, and I'm saying that on June 8th, you'll see this bill in front of you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0151par0453	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The negotiations are complete. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So that's a new substance. There's a motion on Article 31 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 31 of the Legislature of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Law under the Law of Business Health and Safety Act. Haydar Akar Süleyman Çelebi İzzet Cetin Ali İhsan İkturk Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0152par0467	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0151par0468	Mr. Kokturk, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0153par0470	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that the 12th Article of Law Bill 687, which we are discussing, be removed from the draft text of the bill. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, as we all remember, the provision of this Article 31, which includes the solution to the property problem in Zonguldak, has been discussed in violation of the new article in the draft, and therefore the Zonguldak Law, which is one of the two main steps of the property issue in Zonguldak, which is particularly one of the main issues of the Imar Affafi Act, which was released in 1984. We talked about it last week. Because of the failure of municipalities to meet their obligations due to the Emancipation Act, due to costs and technical reasons, there have been some really big progress in solving the problem of some 20,000 citizens, who have struggled to obtain a deed allocation document according to the Zonguldak Law, but have not been able to obtain the deed. In my speech last week, I thanked Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our Deputy Group President, Mr. Secretary, to all of our political parties in Parliament, and on this occasion, I thank you again. However, even though Parliament will be able to work again from now on...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0154par0473	But don't say it anymore.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0155par0474	Don't say that anymore.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0153par0475	But I have to say this because we have demands for Zonguldak from next term's Parliament, we have demands from all of our political parties. Because the problem with the deed allocation document, one of Zonguldak's two fundamentals of the property problem, was solved, but the problems with the basin were not solved. I told you last week, in 1910, with the Prime Minister's thesis, the imposition of the immovables in the stone coal basin was banned. Although Law 3303 was issued in 1986 and the government owned the mines below it, it was not resolved at Zonguldak. During the Zonguldak study of the cadastro, the land that should be registered for the citizen's name was registered or unregistered for the treasure, in fact due to the lucrative statute of limitations. Now, with this arrangement, with the arrangement we spent in Bill 705 last week, we made a provision for the sale of these assets in Parliament, not for free registrations for the owners, but for the actual value of spending under Article 63 of the Law of Wraths. However, it is clear that Article 639 of the Civil Law, Article 713 of the new Civil Law, Article 10 of the Constitution, and Article 10 of the Constitution. In other parts of Turkey, these movers are registered free of charge in the name of their zalyets, under the conditions of these accruing statute of limitations. However, despite the fact that Zonguldak has been given a timeout, we are selling these assets only by paying the value of spending on their property, their property, their capital. I mean, we've legalized an arrangement for the citizen's registration by paying the price for the settlements they're supposed to get for free in Parliament. I would like to address the memory of our lawmakers and the institutional memory of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey during the next parliamentary period and ask Parliament to pass on a legal provision of this problem, in accordance with the 10th Article of the Constitution, and the 713th Amendment of the Civil Code, in accordance with the principle of justice and equality. I demand this on behalf of Zonguldak and, hopefully, Zonguldak will be free of the problem of the second base of ownership during the next leg of Parliament. I thank the entire Parliament.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0156par0478	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been accepted and thus the Article 31 is removed from the text. There are two motions on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 32 of the 687 Numbered Law Bill, we propose and propose that the temporary 17th article, dated 29/6/2001, shall be changed in the following manner, envisioned for the Evaluation of Unmovable Property of Treasure 4706 and to be added to the Law on Alternate Value Tax Act. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Akyürek Halil Özcan Abdulkerim Gök Seyit Ayyüpoğlu Osman Love Look Mahmoud Runs "Current Article 17-12/11/2012 and the establishment of the Metropolitan Municipality and 27 districts in 14 counties No. 6360 and the establishment of 27 districts under the provisions of some Law and Law Laws; places under the jurisdiction and auspices of the State under which the article has been established; whether it has been established before the date of the Act or whether it has been identified or whether it has been registered on the basis of its use of the same article, or who has been registered in the municipality and the mujamar district of Ceylanar, and who has been registered for the title of the Treasury, and who has been declared by the State of Emergency and who has been registered for the same period and who has been registered to whom and who has been registered to whom and who has been registered for whom and who has been registered for whom and who has been registered for whom has been registered to whom and who has been registered to whom and who has been registered to whom has been registered for the same period of the same period of this article, and who has been declared by the state, and who has been declared by the same article, and the same article, and the same article, and the same article, and the same article, and the same article, and the same article, and the same article. Those who have been shown as the owner of the estate's bell-use/user/or property in the property house of the deed, or those who have applied to the county's manager's office in order to buy them from their legal or admissible successors, are entitled to the sale price determined by the county's estate, whether they object to it or not. As part of this material, cadastro work is not the second cadastro. The non-moving and non-registered locations can also be applied to or/or registered to the Treasury, regardless of whether or not it was previously registered to the Treasury, or if it was not released without a registration, under the request of the Finance Ministry, under the request of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate. In addition to Article 4 of Law 3402, the movers are carried out under the provisions of the cadastro work and other operations of non-registered areas. According to this clause, those who have no objection to selling the rights, including those assigned to public services and those used in public services in the property plan registered in the name of the Treasury, will be sold to the owners of the rights of Article 492 in accordance with Article 63 of the Law of Law, if they apply to the town's property for two years after the process is finalized. Those who can't be sold in terms of actual status, if they can't be sold in private parcels, and if they don't move in with multiple-layer buildings on them, they can be sold to the rightful owners if it's not possible. If the owners of the rights have previously paid the full amount of land value in accordance with the laws of Law 2981, dated 24/2/1984, and have applied to the authority administration to obtain a deed allocation certificate, and have not yet completed the transactions, the amount of the property of these assets will be sold on the basis of Article 492, according to the Law of Law No. 2981. The deed of the estates that have been sold cannot be charged with anything other than cadastro tuition from the rightful owners for the parts listed in the allocation or application documents, which are fully paid for the land. The land prices paid partially for these movers are updated and reduced by legal interest until the deadline for the sale. As for those who have never paid for the land, spending according to this clause will be sold over the actual value. The property of the rightful owner of the move is not considered by the trees and the value of the property. The price of the move can be paid in advance or in installments. If paid in installments, a quarter of the sales fee will be paid within 30 days, and the rest will be paid in 24 months, with four equal installments and legal interest. It is not registered to the person who takes over the estate until the mortgage and interest are paid. According to this Law, the provisions of Building Law 3194 and Application Rules do not apply." Signed by the same motion: Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Aytuğ Atı Süleyman Çelebi Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0157par0508	Mr. President, for many years our Şanlıurfa had a property issue in Ceylanpınar district. In fact, it's a county that hasn't had a deed since it was founded, and with the work done here, the fate of Ceylannar is changing, and the Ceylanpınars will have their deeds. I thank everyone who contributes. I agree with the motion, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0156par0509	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0158par0510	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, on March 26, 2015, we submitted a motion as Republican People's Party Group to solve the property problems of our citizens in the Zonguldak province and make them property owners. Our motion has been passed by the participation of all political parties and by the government's support, and today the Zonguldakans will solve the ongoing property issue since before the republic, hopefully, and all of them will have the deed. Everyone will receive the deed, God willing, because of its application and because of its rights to the deed of allocation of the deed, due to the Article 2981 of the Emancipation Act. We're very happy about this. The second thing I'm happy about is that this step by the Republican People's Party regarding Zonguldak is now being followed in Ceylanınar. Our citizens in Ceylanpınar are extremely victimized. They can't get the deed to the land, the land where they've lived for years. They live there, and they don't have the deed to where they live. Now, Mr. Secretary has made a statement. You know, of course, Mr. Secretary's worked on it, but I'd like to fix his explanation a little bit. Mr. Secretary, in the government's bill, the municipality was called in so that our citizens living in Ceylannar could have the deed, so the land will be transferred to the municipality and the municipality will be handed over to the citizens. When to turn it in, how to turn it on, whether to plan the development, whether to cut off 35 percent from the citizens, whether or not to separate the official areas from the citizens. Now, I see here that the municipality has come out of the way, it will be given the land it uses directly to the citizens, it will be co-ordinated by the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, it will be sold to the citizens at the price of the property managership. Here, of course, it's important to determine the price. Of course the commissions will state the price according to the law, but if there's a number that the citizen can't pay in the assessment of the price, that's the problem. So what needs to be done is to spend on these citizens and sell them over the actual value, and if the actual value of spending is high, then of course you can think of different solutions; I remind you of that once. Second, here is the solution to the problems stemming from the Law on Development. This was taken from the motion on Zonguldak, and the same one was moved here. In 1984, our citizens paid 2,000 Turkish liras to get their rights from the Emancipation Act, or, by paying the price, the government may not be able to grant them a deed of allocation, and our citizens will get their deeds without paying any other price. There's a 400 square metre line there, and if it uses over 400 square meters of land, for over 400 square meters, our citizens will be able to get the extra part by paying a price again. I embrace our brothers from Ceylanpınar here, giving them all the love and respect of the Republican People's Party Group. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0159par0516	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Gök is the speaker of the other motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0160par0520	Thank you. Mr. President, the motion we're discussing is actually a motion from our EC PARTY group, and I'd like to correct it first. The result of that motion was taken with it, and in the same way, another political party group submitted it as a motion. Another issue, in fact, is the size of this issue that has been resolved in Zonguldak. I'm born and raised. I just remembered my childhood. Someone's political abuses have been wiped out tonight. Someone will come to Ceylanınar.... I will solve the immigration problem, I will solve the deed problem..... tonight is the last night. I thank all political groups from the bottom of my heart. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0161par0524	How do you thank me?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0162par0525	What kind of thanks is that?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0161par0526	Shame! You wanted to trick all the party groups.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0163par0527	When I thanked Mr. President last night for delivering a right here, some of our friends reacted. When our President visited Ceylanpınar, he said that these two problems would be resolved. Mr. Faruk Çelik Bey, my dear fellow MP, my friends of the Urban MP, whatever we say in the field, praise be to God... in the final moments of the 24th Legislature, in the last minute, perhaps the end of this moment, I thank all my friends in this meeting. Praise be to God, we've had a chance to do what we said. We're not the ones who promised and then came to Ankara and forgot about it. We've cleared this place of voting from citizens through the bans on politics, politics. Thus, all our citizens in Ceylanınar are particularly important in spending on the fundamental value of their rights, such as their mother's milk, and then their deeds are very important. There's a second hundred-year-old problem that we're going to be dealing with right after this, which is the problem of migrating. The solution to two fundamental problems in Ceylanınar, if you all say yes together and become lawless, has been especially given to this 24th term. I really want to thank you all from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0164par0530	How many times have we brought this motion here?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0163par0531	I'd like to thank all my friends, the entire group, who have worked so hard tonight. I also consider you, and all of you from this moment forward, to be an honorary citizen. I sincerely thank our current AK PARTY Group, Mr. President, MPs, our esteemed Minister Faruk Çelik Bey. Thanks to the commission, I want you to exist. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0165par0534	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0166par0535	What does this have to do with the president?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0167par0536	Mr. President, as a man who followed the Commission from beginning to end, the deputy has distorted the progress of his statement. I want word on that, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0165par0537	Now, wait a minute, Mr. Lightning. Baluken's been in the system before, so I'll take his word for it for a minute. Then I'll promise Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0168par0538	Yeah, not a minute. So it's an important issue, as the group's deputy president, we're going to pass on our thoughts on this process.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0165par0539	Yes, I'll give you your word. And then Mr. Akchay wishes to say something about it.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0169par0540	Mr. Lightning will speak.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0165par0541	You've handed it over to Mr. Lightning, all right. If you're in the system, Mr. Lightning, I can promise you your position. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0170par0544	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, there's an important motion here that solves the title issue of Ceylanınar. We're actually considering these proposals, both proposals, extremely positive, and we're going to support these motions. We're also withdrawing the motion that we've already submitted to the release of the substance, which has been organised with political, populist approaches. In fact, in the previous bag of legislation, the AK PARTY Group wanted to bring this arrangement on Ceylanınar (Ceylanpınar) with its motion at midnight, where they wanted to make the municipality an instrument in the process of delivering the deeds to the citizens. We opposed him, of course, because a very important situation could have arisen about the loss of our citizens, who have been incompatible with the political opinion of the city's long-standing property issue that concerns an entire city. Again, arbitrary applications for citizens who had the same political opinion as the municipality and opposed the municipal administration could be involved. Therefore, we said that we should stop being the city's middleman and develop the process of resolving the victim's sacrifice by the hands of a government agency, the deed of Kadastro. Now, given the motion, the AK PARTY Group has made this correction, but speaking from the podium, Mr. Urbana Congressman, as if all these processes hadn't happened, made a speech last night as if he hadn't tried to mislead other political party groups, and we consider it a huge misfortune. Each three political parties, which were found in opposition, offered constructive suggestions for resolving this victimhood. We also thank the Minister, who has taken into account these constructive proposals, and they have come with a new proposal that can be used as political material and can victimize the citizen because of the political difference. Thus, a long - lived victimhood of Ceylanpınar was eliminated. We say good luck to all Ceylanpınar, and we thank all the political party groups who have worked hard. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0171par0549	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0172par0551	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking on the stand earlier, the orator who spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group spoke my words a little wrongly to the General Rule, and I want to correct them first. The first was that the government's bill on Ceylanınar had no solution to a problem concerning the deed allocation documents. This part of the motion was taken exactly from the motion made by the Republican People's Party Group on Zonguldak. Of course, if something's being done right, there's nothing wrong with the ruling party getting it from the Republican People's Party, and we'd appreciate it. Second: Again, in resolving the other property issue in Ceylanınar -- the government's bill for the transfer of property to citizens outside of the deed allocation document -- the government's plan was to call the municipality towards the election, and let me develop a policy through the municipality. That won't be necessary. Look, the right path has been found again, the bride has been followed, the Republican People's Party's motion for Zonguldak has been followed here; the municipality has been removed, and the citizens will be given the deed directly. However, there is a problem here, at the price, the speaker mispronounced it on the stand, saying it would be handed over from the original value. Two parts of the motion: the property allocation documents will be spent mainly, or rather, up to 400 square metres of non-expension, over 400 square metres of spending will be transferred from the original value; others will be transferred over the value of the county appreciation commission. Now, look, there could be a problem here, and there could be a real value here. The government may say that the cost was high. I don't know, what's the real value of spending there? If it's above a citizen's budget, it could be a problem. However, in such a case, it is not a problem to give authority to the commission. Why can't it be solved? While the commission appreciates the value, spending can't fall below the actual value. Hopefully, this is well-conceived, and we accepted the government's proposal for the price, and we wrote it here as the price of the county appreciation commission. Let me put it this way: The Republican People's Party Commissioners have expressed their positive views and expressed their support from the beginning to the end on the solution of the property problem in Ceylanpınar, as well as on the solution of the property problem in Zonguldak. I would like to say once again that the Republican People's Party Group will vote yes to this motion and to other proposals of the same nature. I salute all the Ceylanians from here. Good evening.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0173par0560	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0174par0562	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first like to say that as a member of the National Movement Party Group who follows the process on behalf of the lower commission and the upper commission, I would first like to express that I appreciate Mr. Minister's efforts in this matter, but that this is the common will of all political parties in the matter of handing it over to those who are entitled to the rights of Ceylanpınar, and to those in Zonguldak. We really put in a lot of effort for him. We can't get out of it if we over-evaluate it because of the scope of the motion that we have given to all citizens with similar problems in the country to address their problems. He used certain statements, such as those in the Commission. However, in accordance with the technique of the law, we as the National Movement Party Group have to be inclusive, in order to solve similar problems throughout Turkey. You know, if there's a law against surrendering to an address, it's, like, three or five months in Ermenek, Soma, and then it's back on the agenda of Parliament. So there are a lot of places in our country that have similar problems. I believe these problems will be on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. As the National Movement Party, we had efforts at that time to resolve similar problems, but were told that it was not possible. So, the speaker, the congressman, came back as if the AK PARTY had done it, thanking the AK PARTY Group. That's not very true. Besides, we didn't understand much about the president's involvement. I'm guessing our deputy may have said something in the upcoming election season to get some help. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0175par0565	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Come in, Mr. Secretary, you have a brief request.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0176par0567	Sir, thank you very much. First of all, when I was assigned to Şanlıurfa MP in 2011, when I left, we had a intense zeal to get to know Şanlıurfa and Şanlıurfalı, and we had good times and days of bonding with them. There were serious problems. In the beginning of these problems were the property problems of immigrants in Ceylanpınar district. Now, of course, politics is a tool of service. Here is our President's character: Mr. President when he was Prime Minister, they came to Şanlıurfa, and at the meetings there, our citizens informed them of it, and he instructed us to sort it out, whether it's legal or legal or administrative. Since our esteemed congressman is Ceylanpınar, his heart is burning, it's necessary to accept that it's really a serious problem -- they've expressed their feelings in this frame. For four years, we've been struggling with all the local dynamics, and I've finally asked our Finance Ministry to draft a draft for Ceylanınar. Our Finance Ministry has prepared an arrangement for Ceylanpınar, and we have put it in this bill and sent it as a government bill. When we came to the commission, we asked the Ministry of Finance officials to prepare this problem, which is technically not to be a mistake, as well as to our friends, members of the Republican People's Party, members of the Commission, Cemalettin Gentlemen, in different places. We've already drafted a proposal to be resolved by the size of the local governments you gave about Ceylanpinar, and then the proposal came, not by local governments, but by cadastro size. There is absolutely no political question of our involvement here. Now, when the Zonguldak issue was resolved in the cadastral dimension, we didn't see any harm in setting it up the same way as he did. So, as a request from all of our groups, we took this request together in the Commission, in the lower commission, and -- it's a very pleasant work -- we made this arrangement in solidarity, in order to solve an important problem for our country, our citizens. But politically -- I've been in politics for 30 years -- if you have to say something from the bench, the ones that haven't been solved in a hundred years are solved by the AK PARTI in thirteen years. Let's give him that right, too. Otherwise, it is asked: "Who has come and who has passed? So these could have been solved in the various parts of Turkey, in Şanliurfa, but it couldn't be solved. In other words, let's say it's meant to be. We don't have much time, but that's how it happened. I'd like to thank our three opposition groups of members of the group, the members of the Commission, and the EC PARTY Group. I say to the Ceylanpinars, the Zonguldans, our nation, we wish you well, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0575	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0178par0576	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0577	I submit these two motions to your votes...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0179par0578	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0178par0579	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0580	All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0179par0581	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0582	Sustained.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0180par0583	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0584	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0181par0585	I said it was enough, Mr. President, but you didn't hear.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0586	I didn't hear it. I'm sorry. If you'd like me to repeat it again, if you have any objections. Mr. Akar, is that what your request was about?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0182par0589	Yes, about that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0590	I mean, we don't have that, but I'm going to make a commitment based on the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0182par0591	Everyone's got it, and I'll take it, if you don't mind.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0183par0592	On a brief twenty-minute assessment of the Minister...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0593	Please come in according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0182par0596	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, Şanlıurfa MP, our Ceylanpınar-born friend, expressed in his own time that the situation had been resolved in the 24th term, as if it were the Prime Minister of the 24th Government of the Republic of Turkey, today's President, was founded by Prime Minister Erdogan at the time, but in the 21st or 22nd century or 23rd term, he made a statement that it was different. So there's an expression that, in this period of thirteen years, the work that's been compressed and solved at the end of the 24th term is as if it's been discussed only during this period. When you look at it -- I'm on the CİT Commission -- the Ceylanpınar and TEGYM properties have always been discussed in Court reports in the OSCE Commission, which was discussed in the 22nd term, as well as in the 23rd term. During the 22nd and 23rd term, members of the CİR Commission went back to Ceylanınar, where they studied the problems of the nomads in their place, but could not find a solution. We went as the 24th-century MP, where the 674 families prepared our proposal as the CSI Commission for resolving the victims of 4,600 people, and as a result of this proposal, those citizens have 18,000 acres of first-class agricultural land there, 33,000 acres and 40,000 acres of non-advised land in the name of the treasure, but it's a hundred acres -- look, I'm saying something very important. Today those nomads don't own it, they're still the problem, there's still going on, and it's going on like this. But what had to be done there was to give citizens the same deeds as today's law in Ceylanpınar, where the nomads have lived since 1943, the same way they should have been given the deed. There were also other promises made to them, which were to be built by TOKI, where the stables, dwellings, places of worship, schools, and immigrants would be transferred there, but unfortunately, during the AKP administrations, there were three periods -- including the 24th term -- yet not even a nail has been struck. The nomads have only been assigned land, but their problems haven't been solved. And I'm just saying this to say hello to the Urbans and the nomads from here.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0597	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Members of the law, I submit to your votes Article 33: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0184par0602	Article 32, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0177par0603	We voted 32, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0185par0604	That was 32, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0186par0605	That was 32, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0187par0606	You were to vote on the number of votes that would be sufficient for the decision to vote on the motions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0188par0607	No, now, we voted the motions, and then we voted Article 32. Wasn't Article 32 voted?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0187par0609	You didn't vote.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit07spe0188par0610	It's all mixed up. Well, I submit Article 32 to your votes, and I repeat: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 32 is accepted. You also agreed to Article 33. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 687. The commission and the government are in place. We were in Article 34. There are three motions on Article 34, the two are the same property, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "to the Office of the Employment and Business Institution" and to the relevant vocational rooms and union representatives" in Article 34 of the current law bill 687. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and propose that Article 34 of the Court of Corrections shall be removed from the bill under Section 687 of Occupational Health and Safety Act. You've brought Lightning Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the drafting of Article 34 of the Persistent Law on Business Health and Safety Act No. 687, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Nurdan Şanlı Recep Special Osman Love Look Ramadan Can Does the commission agree with the motions of the same nature? We're leaving it to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0189par0027	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0028	I'm reading the reasons: The proposed amendment was intended to be removed from the bill, since the amendment to the amendment with which the clause was modified was deemed sufficient. I'm reading the other reason: In the workplace, it is intended to ensure that the work is done in accordance with the health and safety regulations that must be organised according to the health and safety regulations, and that it is the duty of workplace physicians and occupational health and safety specialists to ensure that it does not give birth to jurisdiction at work. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motion has been accepted, the substance is removed from the text. So, I'm not processing the other motion, I'm dropping it. Article 34 is out of the text. There are three motions on Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the law under Article 35 of the 687 rows under which there is an agreement shall be changed to ▪70 percent. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law number 4708, under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, under which there are amendments to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed in the frame of Article 35. I propose and propose that the first joke of the clause (c) be removed from the bill. You've brought Lightning Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the drafting of Article 35 of the Persistent Law on Health and Safety Act 687, which is currently in session, and the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Nurdan Şanlı Recep Special Osman Love Look Ramadan Can Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We're leaving it to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0190par0058	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0191par0059	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0060	I'm reading the reason: The provision of administrative fines on Article 35 was also intended to be removed from the bill, since Article 34 has been proposed to be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion has been accepted and the item has been removed from the text. So I'll remove the other motions from the process. I submit to your votes, Article 36: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 36 is accepted. There are three proposals on Article 37, all three are the same property, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of the Law Bill 687 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of the Bill of the Law be taken out of the law on the amendments to certain Laws and Laws under the Law and Security Act 687. With all due respect. Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 37 of the Law Bill 687 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Recep Special Osman Love Bak Nurdan Glory Does the Commission agree with these proposals of the same nature? We're leaving it up to appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0192par0088	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0089	I'm getting you to read your reasons: Under the arrangement, Article 14 of the Work Law has been changed and provisions related to "extreme work" have been added to the Employment Act. The quality of working from a distance is to do the employer's work outside of what is described as a workplace, at the worker's house or at a different location. It's part of the flexible and illegalization policy. In particular, during the release of the Business Law in 2003, this "extreme work" was discussed, and although it was in the bill, it was arranged to be removed from the text of the law. In our country, where about 37 per cent of employment is working in the form of information, this arrangement will increase non-regionality. The reason for the arrangement is that technologically there is a need for employees in high-tech sectors. However, this spatial removal of the workplace in this way of work, which has been repeatedly determined by the Labour Ministry inspectors in the previous years, especially when it is used as a tool for the spread of information work in the textile sector, will also promote free family labour and uncle system, business accidents, unsecured work, as well as eliminating the employer's labour health and safety obligations. Remote work will also give rise to unconcerned, unsecured work, the exploitation of family labor and child labor. It is also an arrangement that prevents women from being visible in their work life, which condemns them to work from home and home. This provision has increased the intensity and danger level of home-axis work, while home-based work is excluded from occupational health and safety. Borders on working from a distance will be cut off, union organisation will be negatively affected. It'll make the fees go down. The disintegration of the production process will become common. Raw materials made by employers will not be possible to control. In the home environment, chemicals and harmful substances can be used. This arrangement does not comply with the Treaty No. 177. What needs to be done is to determine the area of the work to be done at home and make it safe and secure. Idris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends' motion, I read the reason: The home - axisd work in this article is shaped by the Law of Debts. The work form of the Employment Act is being tried to be registered, but it is necessary to limit work, to guarantee social rights of such workers, to provide measures, sanctions for the health of workers and for the safety of work. Given that there are more than 200,000 and 90 per cent women working on a home axis in Turkey, work from home is an atypical and flexible work form and should be rejected as a principle. The point of view in regulations that provide no restrictions on what jobs can be conducted outside of work (out of home or outside of home) should not only be recorded but also laid on the basis of an arrangement in which the working class can benefit from common gains, which should be opened to the contributions and suggestions of trade unions, women organisations, vocational organisations and academics. A change is intended to address these problems. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends' motion to read the reason: The article is removed from the draft text, which is considered to be the answer to the need for current regulations. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... have been accepted and removed from the text of Article 37. There's a motion on Article 38 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 38 of the underlying 687 rows of legislation from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0193par0109	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0110	I'm reading the reason: According to world standards, Turkey is one of the highest working hours in the country. It is a violation of basic human rights, as it increases the exploitation of labor. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 38th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 38th article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 39 of the underlying 687 rows of the bill be changed to five days. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0194par0125	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0126	I'm reading the reason: It is intended that the worker be granted a three-day paid leave in the event of the adoption or adoption of his wife or the death of his relatives. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 39 is accepted. There are two motions on the 40th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 40 of the Law shall be changed, as follows, in accordance with the 687 Numbered Health and Safety Act, and in accordance with some Laws and Laws. İzzet Cetin Ali İhsan İkturk Süleyman Çelebi The second sentence of Article 63 of Article 40, 4857 of the Law has been changed in the following way. For workers working underground and underwater work, the maximum is 36 hours a week and cannot be more than six hours a day. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 40th article of the current law bill 687 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the Commission agree with my latest motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0195par0149	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0150	I'm reading the reason: The proposals and demands of trade unions in the area are clear. In accordance with this proposal and demands, the work period of the week is limited to 35 hours and 7 hours per day. Overwork and safety issues with change have been intended to be resolved. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 40 of the Law shall be changed, as follows, in accordance with the 687 Numbered Health and Safety Act, and in accordance with some Laws and Laws. Izzet Cetin (Ankara) and his friends The second sentence of Article 63 of Article 40, 4857 of the Law has been changed in the following way. For workers working underground and underwater work, the maximum is 36 hours a week and cannot be more than six hours a day. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0196par0163	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0188par0164	Mr. Kokturk, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0197par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you. As we all know, mining is a really hard-working, hard-working industry. Especially when it comes to underground mining, we see the conditions are getting heavier. In my constituency of Zonguldak, especially given the geological situation in the stone coal basin, the structure of veins, the lack of mechanics, it is necessary to really see and observe closely what conditions the workers work. With this clause, it is intended to be limited to seven-and-a-half hours a day, limited to 37-and-a-half hours a week, with 48-hour continuous leave of absence, so the week's vacation will be extended to two days. On behalf of the Zonguldak mining workers, on behalf of all mining workers who work at Turkey's Tashkomuru Foundation, and on behalf of the underground mine workers, I find this arrangement to be positive. Because it's not enough for a mining worker, who works hundreds of metres below the ground, who leaves his house at the crack of dawn, who gets at least an hour's journey through the chimney mouth, who has to walk for at least an hour to get to the work spaces in the chimney, and who can't get into the narrow areas of the human body, to make the mines into the country's heavy industry, and in doing so, it's not enough for a one-day vacation for a miner who's been exposed to coal and silis dust, causing respiratory failures like pneumonia. The two-day weekend is mandatory for both moral and health workers. I wish all of our miners the best and the best of luck to this arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0198par0171	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 40th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 41, which are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 41 of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under the Law and Security Act of the 687 ranked Business Health and Safety Act. With all due respect. Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan Kokturk Haydar Akar Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0199par0190	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0198par0191	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0200par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We think this item should be removed from the draft text. Because with this stuff, the working hours of the workers are up to 11 hours. Its current working hours are already way above all European countries in terms of workers, almost in terms of employees. The upper boundary here will bring with it serious problems, especially since it can be used in all jobs that are not considered industrial. Night hours are one of the most important things that directly threatens labor health, and it needs to be limited. We feel that there should be no conscience here to accept an arrangement that would eliminate this limitation. We're trying to contribute to what we find useful, useful in this bag bill, and we're trying to support it with constructive suggestions. But there's a real violation of human rights, against the law of labor. Therefore, come, contribute to the opposition's proposals, and support the opposition, in violation of the law of this work, in violation of conscience. In the end, the arrangements we make here will affect people's health directly. In many professions, workers, employees, unfortunately, are at risk of severe occupational illness. You know the drama of silicon patients. One of the biggest shames of the 24th-century Parliament, especially when we offer so many laws regarding siliconis patients who work in the sand-bolting business, who have died in acute fulinian forms within a few months, is that there has not been a single regulation. And we don't necessarily want to make an assessment of the miners' loss of life in the cave-ins. Each miner is actually closer to death every day with the particles he inhaled into his lungs while he was alive. As an expert on breast disease, I know very well about miners who suffer from severe health problems, such as pneumonia, and whose life span is short, as a direct follow-up physician. Therefore, we feel that there should be nothing in particular that you would object to in this arrangement. Seven hours a day, thirty-five hours a week is a proposal for human rights and labour law. So, with our amendment proposal, we want to make this arrangement. We expect your support in this matter. Consider a little bit about how you got lawmakers to do chores here in the last two months. I mean, we've had some serious difficulties in these comfortable seats, even in this comfortable environment, over seven or eight hours of work. We've had friends who've been sick for ten hours, who've been in the ERs, who've been in observation, where we've measured their blood pressure. So, in these circumstances, even under these comfortable circumstances, if we're having such a hard time getting over seven hours, I invite you all to a conscientious accounting for workers in places with heavy labor, and I offer you again your appreciation for the removal of this clause. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0201par0201	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0202par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, you're prolonging the work of the night in unindustrial jobs, and there's no limit to that. In all jobs that you can think of, which are not industrial, including health, all non-industrial jobs. When you say that, this leads to a clear point. So it would be wise to renegotiate this clause, if the government agrees. For example, in health care, we do not want health workers to look at a patient without sleep. Those of you who are medics know, they know people who fall asleep in surgery. I dozed off over and over while I was doing the blood transfusion, and I slept on the patient's head several times. Guys, look, this is a health issue, and tomorrow your granddaughter, the nurse in charge of your child, is going to sleep, for God's sake. You shouldn't extend the night hours of healthcare workers, that's really harmful. I mean, if the other person who sweeps the floor goes to sleep, it doesn't hurt a bit, it's just a violation of human rights. But when you put health into it, my dear friends, I mean, that's not gonna happen. That's why this stuff is not supposed to be accepted at all. If you agree to this clause, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to meet again once in a while if our General Assembly accepts the clause. There's a great deal of use in narrowing down that scope. So let's do it without keeping it large, and if possible, let's leave health out of it, and if we can do it according to the European Union norms. I mean, here, at the end of our work period, let's not sign a meaningless substance like this, not sign a harmful substance, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0203par0208	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 41 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 41 accepted There's a motion on Article 42, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of the current law bill 687 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0204par0221	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0205par0222	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0203par0223	I'm reading the reason: It allows all children who are not 14 years old to be able to work "art, culture and advertising activities" for up to 30 hours a day, to open the door to intensive child labor exploitation, which is not in line with international directives and contracts. This clause must be removed from the draft text and amended according to international contracts. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 42nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 42 is accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 43 is accepted. There's a motion for a new clause, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following clause to be added after Article 43 of the current bill of law. Erkan Akçay Oktay Öral Cemalettın Lightning Scholar Light Emin Çınar Ali Öz The following joke was added at the end of Article 112 of Law 4857, dated 44 ▪ 22/5/2003. ==Early life==As of the date of the subterranean mining operations of public enterprises and enterprises, the severance benefits of those who have reached the end of their contract dated 5/1/2002 and continue under Public Contracts No. 4735 are deposited into the account of those concerned under the Mining Law, dated 25/2/1998 and under contract 3213. The main information and documents are handed over to the public institution and institution concerned by the last employer the worker works for. The budget arrangement for the implementation of this payment is organised by relevant public institutions and organisations. Because of this payment, the right of the public institution and its organisation to reproduce is reserved for interested firms or companies." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion with your absolute majority? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission did not participate in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion. There are two motions for a new substance violation, both of which are of the same nature, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following item be added after Article 43 of the current 687 Order Numbered Bill and the following item numbers be identified accordingly. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recai Berber Muzaffer Citizen Selçuk Özdağ Nesrin Ulema Uğur Aydemir Ayşe Türkmenoğlu İlknur Denizli Fehmi Kübçü Ali Aydınlıoğlu The following joke is added to Article 112 of the Law No. 44-4857. "The revenues from the sale of property belonging to subterranean mining companies and their partners from the 5/1/2002 Public Contracts Act 4/6/1985 and under the Mining Law 3213 agreements will be used primarily for the sale or follow-up of the Savings Insurance Fund for those workers who have worked in these companies, and for those whose employment contracts have ended in order to earn severance and compensation. These payments are made by the Savings Savings Insurance Fund, which is being deposited into the account of the interested. The basic information and documents for payment are handed over to the Savings Register Insurance Fund by the employee's last employer." The signatures of the other motion are: Aytüg Thrower Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğün Çelebi Süleyman Çelebi Ali Haydar Öber Ramadan Kerim Özkan Ozkan Özgür Special Does the Commission agree with the majority in the motion for two new clauses of the same nature? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the commission has joined the motion with a majority, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Is there a request for a word? You have Mr. Akçay. Mr. Erkan Akçay, Congressman of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0206par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. In the last hours of the 24th century, we are again discussing an important arrangement in the final bag of bills and in addition to the last item. To recap: the families and heirs of 301 miners and their heirs who died in the mine company and in the mines of Soma, which had suffered the Soma disaster on 1 December 2014, the people who lost their lives since 1 December were unable to receive severance pay from 13 May. In particular, on December 1, 2014, when the workers were terminated with text messages and text messages, the issue came as a serious problem for the government to address. On 1 December, Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker Arinc said, "We will not leave our workers hungry and exposed." Of course, it's been four months, and the workers are hungry and out in the open. Of course, their employment is a very important problem. Even though it's an easy problem to solve, the government has been very hard on the workers because they bring in a number of exceptions and exemptions that have reached billions without blinking during the law talks and bring them back relentlessly. In fact, it was the fact that workers who were unable to receive severance pay, the Turkish Coal Company, the original owner of the mines, would pay severance as the real employer and pay the firm because the firm's reasons for failing to pay severance fees were blocked, and the Savings Register Insurance Fund was responsible for that. Anyway, after long discussions and searches, we've come to this arrangement that we've accepted and signed, and this is not a benefit, I hope this will be applied. If our motion had been accepted, it would have been 100 per cent, a more comfortable situation. I hereby submit to this motion that while I am willing to support and sign the application of the substance, we will continue to follow it carefully and discreetly, and it will not be long before these arrangements and payments have to be made. Is the problem over? The problem is not over, dear friends. The employment problem of 2,831 mine workers is already in the hands of the government as a fireball. It's not really a fireball, so a power that wants to solve it can easily solve it, because there are court decisions that will make the government's hand easier or the administration's hands easier for Turkey's Coal Company. As the main employer, Turkey is counting coal companies, referring to the Business Law. It's a situation that will make it easier for the administration to decide. The sum of the severance compensation that should be paid now is $41,44,000 per cent, dear friends, so the amount to be paid is 31,27,000 lira to the Eynez Mining Pit workers, and a total of $41,814,000 to the workers working in Atabaca. Hopefully, these severance checks will be paid quickly, and the workers will be spared a great loss, because many of them have not paid their rent, bank foreclosures and creditors are at the door, and they're facing a lot of problems. I wish that the government and the government would improve their employment measures quickly, without delay, and all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0207par0273	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Manisa MP Recai Berber on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0208par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, yes, indeed, after twelve o'clock in the evening, a very important matter has come up again in the process of resolving. And I salute you all. We're adding a joke to Article 112 - I don't call it material. So, in fact, the issue of severance, which is actually a much bigger problem, is that we're just taking care of a victim of a disaster-closed workplace, an employee of a stove. Actually, that's the tip of the iceberg. Because, in this January, we, our lawmakers, who have just spoken for six months, have been here with you from the beginning of our state, and the workers who have actually been closed for six months have been paid by the state. The workers who were there at the time of the accident, who were on that shift, received a double salary from both the employer and the government. Again, people who work there today can't be less than twice the price of the Asgarian fee. Again, we've created a difference for the first time in Turkey in minimum wage, which is twice the minimum wage for all of our parliament's MPs, which is very important to the subterranean workers. The minimum wage for underground workers is no longer less than twice the minimum wage in force. Again, you know they can't be tax cuts. So there was a huge advantage. But, that was a big problem. Yes, some friends have had different offers, different solutions have been dealt with since December 1st. The firm had a reason: it was seized by the TMSF, unable to pay due to its confiscated property. Now that reason will be eliminated by this legal arrangement, and hopefully by the next few days from the TMSF's sale of assets, the workers' severance benefits will be the priority. I'd like to point out that as a member of the community, as a member of parliament, not only will 2,831 workers' problems be solved here, but their indirect problems will be solved. Their debt to others, which is a tradesman, is now tied up. The fact that a source of around $40 million has come to Soma (Soma) on this occasion will, in fact, have now solved many problems related to business in Soma (Soma), economic life, social life. So I thank our esteemed ministers, who have worked so hard to resolve this in the first place. We all solved this problem together. I'd like to thank our friends in other groups, our fellow workers. Thank you very much for our commission. In its proper place, it was also a proper arrangement to add this clause to a bag of legislation concerning the Law on Health and Safety. I'd like to thank the fellow workers for their hard work again. For our workers, and for our Manisa, and for our Soma, I say good luck, and thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0209par0282	Thank you, Mr. Barber. Manisa MP Free Special on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0210par0285	Thank you very much. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're about to do the right thing here with the votes and agreement of four groups, and we're going to do a job for 2,831 of our friends who have been laid off at the Soma Ash mine, who have been laid off, to receive severance and other compensations. What we're doing is essentially the right job, but it's a missing job. Clearly, friends who can't bear to wait even one day will wait for TMSF (TMSF) to sell the assets owned by the Savings Insurance Fund, which this company has seized and to be compensated for. We're doing the right thing for doing nothing. But the truth of this is that the mines are the state, and the rejection agreement and so on doesn't eliminate the responsibility of the Turkish Coal Company here. If the Redevans don't pay off the worker's severance fee, the state will step in, pay up as the main employer, and then do what's necessary. The difficulty in doing what is necessary is a confession of shortcomings in the rejection agreement, and frankly, the laborer's labor, the labor of the worker, before the sweat of his labor is dried. The issue of delay today and waiting for TMSF (TMSF) is a fact that we all have to delay a serious responsibility and neglect again. We're still missing things here because we're only solving the problem of 2,831 Soma Incorporated workers, but we're dealing with 700 victims of Mining, and we're not solving their problem. We can't expect Mining to pay the damages of the victims of Ermenek, they won't, but the House will be closed, and we won't solve their problem. And we didn't solve these friends' problems too voluntarily. The Republican People's Party has been saying this for months, we've run out of feathers, repeatedly rejected. As a result of the time pressure of the non-dominated culture of reconciliation today, the necessity of the Republican People's Party was brought to a point when we called it and our red line. From now on, we will all vote together, but let us remind you that these 2,831 workers begged in Manisa, 400 of them came here, took 40 of them to groups, along with Mr. Süleyman Çelebi. He said, "Let's solve three opposition parties immediately." He said, "We can't get past Mr. Elitaşs, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, until tonight." Opposition parties can't help it if they don't do it in the search for reconciliation. After saying it, it's solved in a way like this, but the government's not keeping its promise. What was the promise of Mr. Bulent Arinc? ▪ We can't leave our workers hungry and unemployed in the middle of winter. Our government is strong, and our government has mercy. They are exposed, and they may receive their due compensation in three months' time. But the real problem is employment. What do you expect from us? The main employer, TİKIE, is to put these people on the job as public workers. Turkey has an important need, and we have said a lot in the Soma Commission, an application mine, a sample mine must be opened. TKI is the most advanced in the ILO standards we've signed, the most secure mine in Turkey that the minister can say and stand behind. The government must open a safe, model practice mine that will keep its promise here. There, mining engineers, mine technicians, workers who will land in the mines for the first time should be trained to practice. We must have a sample of the Redevans' costs that can be controlled. These 2,830 brothers should be able to work there as union public workers. If we could do that, we'd be doing a perfect job. Yes, Mr. Barber is quite right. Instead of staying in the laborer's pocket, it's an important step because he'll pay off the tradesmen's debts in Soma, but this company has debts to the tradesman's co-op in Soma, they have debts to the truckers' Cooperative, they have debts to the service drivers in Kınıkık, at the Battletepe, at the 40krek. We should've put in what they're owed, and we've suggested it over and over and over again, and unfortunately, the coverage has been regressed as a result of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources' resistance, and we can't solve those problems. The step is a small step, but it's an important step for our workers. We should have thrown out something better. The rest of the process is still not over by night, but by means of an additive, the tradesman, the movers, the Truckers, the Cooperative, the same arrangement can be made, and our government can take a step at the point where it is paid immediately and later purchased. That's the right thing to do, but unfortunately we have to say yes. We say yes, but it's not enough, it's got to be broader. That's right. Mining and the tradesman should be in on it. Jobs are essential, we shouldn't leave these workers out in the open, our powerful government needs to find a solution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0211par0292	Thank you, Mr. Special. We have a congressman in the system for QA. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0212par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary something about what we just talked about. This relevant company was constantly demanding the safety of the banks and was constantly getting early purchases from the TKI. I mean, in a sense, he wouldn't let go of what he was gonna get, he wouldn't let go of it, he wouldn't let go of it, he wouldn't let go of it, he wouldn't let go of it. In this way, the workers' severance or other tradesmen in that area could not be received. I mean, they didn't get paid. Doesn't that have anything to do with it? In regard to this matter, I warned you as a member of parliament in time, and I warned the Minister. These things... the workers and the tradesmen have to buy, I told you not to let TKI take care of them. I'd like the Minister's opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0213par0298	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0214par0300	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Kusoglu's question is, I just sat here, not something I know.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0215par0302	It's a tough question, a teacher can't answer.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0216par0303	I don't know, it came out of where I didn't work.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0214par0304	He'll be here any minute, Mr. Secretary. If it had anything to do with the reasons for the power outage, I'd be happy to explain, but he'll be back in a minute, Mr. Secretary, he'll explain.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0217par0305	You're getting a lot of tough questions these days, Mr. Secretary, the power outage has come to you, the terror has come to you...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0214par0306	In a moment, when Mr. Minister arrives, Mr. Kusoglu will give a satisfactory answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0218par0308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0219par0310	Mr. President, thank you. This question I'm asking is important. Mr. Secretary's right not to know this, but this is what they've always done: companies in Manisa-Soma have kept making sure that they're going to buy through banks. He allowed it, when he shouldn't have allowed it, and every time, after this accident, after 301 mortal accidents, they did it even when they shouldn't have allowed it. Because of all his debts, he was delivered without paying the workers, without paying the tradesmen, so it's been taken; it must be a crime. We're making arrangements here, we're destroying it somehow, but in relation to that, the Minister and the Director General should be subject to an investigation of bureaucrats. It wasn't right for them to do that knowingly, knowing that there was such a debt. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0220par0313	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0221par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question about his subject, his studies, and it seems that we will not be able to get satisfying answers to this Labor Safety Act. Mr. Secretary, first of all, how many high school imams have been turned since you came to the Ministry? How many new science high schools have you opened, how many new math schools have you opened, as a minister who follows the positive sciences very closely?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0222par0318	They're asking questions that aren't about the law!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0221par0319	Doesn't Turkey, which aims to enter the world's top 10 economies in 2023, really need to increase high schools of science, math schools? That's my first question.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0222par0320	Ask him about the law!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0221par0321	And my second question, Mr. Minister of National Education, is how did you allow the high school that Edirne was planning to do as the Science High School of the Rooms? I'm going to ask you to answer that, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0223par0323	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0224par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0223par0325	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0225par0326	Mr. President, there's a request.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0226par0327	Mr. President, there's no such thing as the imam-hating of high schools, so it's like: we're looking at the number of students we need anywhere, looking at the number of students we need. After that, if there's a serious imam-hatred demand there, and there's also a serious demand drop in any other high school school, or there's a gap there because a new building was built, we're trading buildings, one. Second: Some imam-hating high schools, this may not only be for imam-hating upper secondary schools, it may be a science high school, it may be an Anatolian high school, we assign some levels or classrooms to another kind of school, which has the capacity to launch schools until construction is completed. But let's say there's a science high school that needs science, and there's a science high school student, and there's an Anatolian high school, and even though we already wanted to move those students, there's no way that they could be converted into any other kind of school, like imam-hat. Now, that's more like the expression... that we had in the Anatolian teacher's high school that we turned into a science high school and an Anatolian high school. We shut down the Anadolu teacher's high schools and turned them into boarding science schools and social schools because their boarding house was available. In these -- I don't remember the exact number now -- but 2 or 3 of them were converted into just a boarding Anadolu imam-gap high school, which was over 390, all the rest of which were either science high school or social science high school. We also don't have a high school of mathematics; we have science high schools, we have Anatolian high schools, we have Anatolian imam-gay high schools, we have Anatolian vocational and technical schools, and we have multi-program high schools. I haven't heard of math high school, so we don't have that kind of high school, you mean science high school. As for the school in Edirne, the science school there has been moved to a new building, as far as I know. But I'll give you the exact truth, the real information later in writing.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0227par0332	I mean, that building is a science high school...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0226par0333	Maybe, I mean, that's how construction started, but that's the protocol they need.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0228par0334	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Barber...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0229par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, while we're working on this clause, there's always motions and negotiations in the Plan and Budget Commission, and there's one thing I'd like to ask you: there's no way that Soma Charcoals will ever get anything from TKI. It's not for safety, it's a misinformation. By court order, 60 per cent of what he's about to receive is blocked by the demand for compensation, and the court blocks it. Therefore, there is no way that this blocked amount can be paid to anyone else in any way, and there is no way that they can be paid for any other purchases. Hence, a TMSF such as this said one of its reasons - was to be paid for it. There are serious alternative investments in employment, especially organised industry, and because of other firms' work, T.K. will increase employment there quickly. So I wanted to correct that misunderstanding. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0230par0340	Thank you, Mr. Barber. Since we still have time, I have to make a promise to lawmakers who have entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Milldere.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0231par0343	There's one thing the Minister has left incomplete. Sir, the imam-hatip high schools are opening according to the need. But Roman children who go to imam-hating high school in Edirne are paid $100 a month. Is this from the sources of national education or from other sources?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0230par0344	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0232par0346	Mr. President, thank you. A moment ago, Mr. Berber, chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, was directed at my statement. I know all about it because I made a question motion on it last year. Each month, there is a report of rights in exchange for coals removed, which are paid against, but before payment is made, for some reason, it was done at the time, after the death of 301 people, which, despite our warning, was made about a small sum. I'm not giving you the numbers so it's not misleading, but I know it's done. It's not what he said -- the way I just described it -- it's been tried to make sure he never gets it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0233par0349	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, if you have anything to say, we'll take it.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0234par0351	Yes, the question of Mr. Millendereli is that Roma children who attend imam-hating high school in Edirne are paid 100 lira by the Ministry of National Education. We don't have that kind of funding, so there's no way we can pay the Roma kids or any other place in Edirne. However, it is wise to stress again on this occasion, that a question like this had already been asked on another occasion, and some of the Imam-student high schools were given lunch, but why not in other schools? There was a question asked, and I explained it on that occasion. Usually this kind of help or, for example, the Ensar Foundation does. The Ensar Foundation is a foundation founded by imam-hakip graduates. Therefore, I wish that this foundation's service for its graduates would be an example to the graduates of our other schools. This is the first time I've heard of Roman children being paid 100 lira, but if they do such a service, let this be an example to others. It's a positive attitude for students who need this kind of support from graduates who have the opportunity to graduate from that school. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0233par0353	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0235par0354	Mr. Secretary, the government must do it. Why are we transferring it to the foundations? Is that even possible? Is the government compliant with seriousness? You know why this is done.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0234par0355	We don't have that kind of practice.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0233par0356	I submit the new clause to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the substance has been accepted and a new substance has been violated. I submit Article 44 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 44 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 45: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 687 rankings are "We would like to propose and change Article 45 of the Law on Health and Safety Act and Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures, as follows. Haydar Akar Süleyman Çelebi Article 206 of Law No. 45-5434 has been changed as follows. "URGAL MADDE 206- 8/9/999 or those who are present at the age of 8/9/1999 have a pension due to their wishes due to their age limit or to the fact that when re'sen retires, they get eight years of actual service, provided that they have completed their term of service. The application of these provisions cannot be requested due to services taken into account in the monthly commitment of 8/9/999. For those who carry the terms specified in the first joke, the month after the period of the period following the application of the substance, they are tied and paid no payment for the past," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "no payment for the past" in Article 45 of the current 687 rows bill be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with this motion I've submitted? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0236par0377	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0233par0378	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to pave the way for those who are entitled to a pension for a change to be brought to justice by the problems that will arise in the case of the past. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 687 rankings are "We would like to propose and change Article 45 of the Law on Health and Safety Act and Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures, as follows. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Article 206 of Law No. 45-5434 has been changed as follows. "URGAL MADDE 206- 8/9/999 or those who are present at the age of 8/9/1999 have a pension due to their wishes due to their age limit or to the fact that when re'sen retires, they get eight years of actual service, provided that they have completed their term of service. The application of these provisions cannot be requested due to services taken into account in the monthly commitment of 8/9/999. For those who carry the terms specified in the first joke, the month after the period of the period following the application of the substance, they are tied and paid no payment for the past," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0237par0391	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0238par0392	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0233par0393	I'm reading the reason: The term of fiscal service has been reduced and the pension is intended to be tied earlier. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 45th article is accepted. Come in, Mr. Bostanci, you're in the system.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0239par0401	Mr. President, thank you. It's April 4th. Eighteen years ago, MHP President Alparslan Türkesh passed away. On this occasion, I ask God for mercy once more. He had performed an important mission as a recent political representative of nationalism, one of the main elements in our history of modernisation for the past 150 years. I had known him well, and I had been in the same courtroom in September 12th, before and after 1980. The late Turk was a man who interpreted nationalism in a way that fit the native fabric of this country and brought it to politics. When we look to the future from now on, we may differ from the horizon of Turkey, and when we look back from now on, I want to point out that no matter what their politics are, no matter where they are, all the different lines are part of our collective history, actors, perpetrators, all of them belong to this country and the nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0240par0406	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. There's a motion on Article 46, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the following sentence to the end of Article 46 of the current law bill 687 rows. This data cannot be given without the knowledge of the data owner. İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0241par0421	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0242par0422	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit08spe0240par0423	I'm reading the reason: The goal is to address the victims of data sharing with change. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 46 has been accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 47 is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0240par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 90th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 687. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there's a new substance incursion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Bill 687 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Hakan Davoglu Osman love Look Ramazan Can (b) ====Early life=====Early life======Early life=======Early life=====Early life=======Early life=======Early life=========Early life============Earth life===================Early life===============References====External links=== Does the commission agree with the majority? We agree, Mr. President. Since you've joined the motion with only your majority, which is 14 people, I'm going to open a meeting with you as a new clause on the motion. Is there a request for a word?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0243par0019	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0240par0020	Mr. Halaçoglu, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0243par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I am here to announce the 18th anniversary of the death of Basbug Alparslan Türkesh, the most important name of Turkish nationalism, to all Turkish nations, and to ask for God's mercy. On April 4, 1997, he received the mercy of Hakk. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. The founder of the National Movement Party, the great man. May he rest in peace, may he rest in peace. Dear lawmakers, despite the fact that those who have earned pensions have been cut down by the state to the 2nd Article of the Constitution, although they have another job or a job or even a job with them. In fact, I'd like to present to you that although it has been reduced to 10 per cent with this clause, unfortunately, to 10 per cent, it's still been removed. Because a man who has worked for thirty years has earned his pension according to our laws and a salary is tied to him. This salary is his earned right, his constitutional right. 15 per cent of his pension -- reduced to 10 per cent according to this law -- is cut off by 10 per cent if he works elsewhere or starts a business. You know, according to Article 2 of our Constitution, Turkey is a state of law. So, if it's the state of law, it's against the law to have your rights earned in any way. It's not just against the law, it's against humanity. Besides, if it's thought that he's occupying a place of employment, and that's why he's being cut off, beyond that, there are people who have become employers, pensioners, people who work for him, jobs. And yet it's still going to be 15 percent or 10 percent now. What right do you have to confiscate this? I mean, think about it, because you've retired, you've worked, you've worked, you've finally earned a salary according to the law, you've won, and you've worked somewhere else, so you cut 15 percent of that person's salary. By what law can you cut it, or by what law do you cut it? You can't explain it. This is not fit for justice, nor is it fit for justice, nor is it fit for humanity. Sir, just because we're going to fix some parts of the budget, I think it's one of the biggest mistakes and illegalities. We argue that it should be removed completely, not 10%. Therefore, I again ask the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to do what is necessary to correct this injustice, to ensure justice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0244par0029	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Ankara MP Izzet Cetin on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0245par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Dear friends, I wish the Republic of Turkey's Parliament would make proper laws instead of making such reactive laws. Now, I'm going to give the election to the poor people's president of the Republican People's Party -- at least because he sees their poverty -- so that we can get them to relax and get them to do it. When the Prime Minister says immediately -- so far, starting on May 6, 1986, in 2008, the AKP's ruling party, the ruling party of that day, the practice that has been coming to you so far, in a way that you really won't be in any country in the world, with the understanding of punishing employees of social security benefits that is 15 per cent. What's the social security bonus, guys? The social security benefits premium, as stated in Law 5510, is a salary cut out of his pension due to the fact that the person who completes the fixed age, the number of premiums/days, and the terms of retirement, and the person who completes it is unable to make a living on his pension after earning a pension, and if the employer is working for him, his name is his name, his name and account, so he's retired, he's retired, he's not living, he's opening a grocery store, why did you open a store? Dear friends, even if it really seems like a win for retirement, resetting this rate as the Republican People's Party is one of the things that we've explained in our previous election declarations -- both in the 2007 and 2002 elections. Today, just because the President of the Republican People's Party has announced it, it is not politics to apply for a 100 lira increase to one part of the pensioners, and on the other hand, to give $54 to those over 65 who are paid $145. This isn't really getting along -- it's not, it's not, it's not enough -- you've spared bank promotions from the cut. All the other pensioners, when we were getting pensioners, officers, you favoured banks to get promotions from banks, you didn't give them to pensioners. What else did you do? They went to the hospital during your time, the contribution went to the pharmacy, the contribution, the standing treatment, the contribution. What else did you do? Yeah, that's the attitude, guys. See, there's a certain number of them... I keep track of their pensions, their lowest and highest months here every month. So digitally, the average salary of the pensioner approaching 11 million on file today is $1,000, $1.100. So a person at this level is working because they can't get along; 5 points, 15 percent down to 10 percent, 100 lira. You'll be borrowing this in the future. Because the increase in wages you had for pensioners on New Year's Eve was 2.32 percent. So your money as AKP was $24 from the budget to the pensioners. If the president of the Republican People's Party didn't say, "I'm giving them a bonus." The pensioners were forgotten for you. So let's get up and move quickly at this time of night. Let's not discuss it. Aman, let's go home for a moment. Another country that makes a law by bringing it to an end is a banana republic other than the Republic of Turkey, and there's no other country that's run with the republic. It's only in your mind to bring such a law-making technique here. After all, we agree that your five percent proposal will bring the pensioners a share. However, I would like to say that the implementation of the punishment of pensioners working for the Republican People's Party will be over. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0246par0043	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0247par0046	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there's an arrangement here for the reduction of social security benefits from 15 per cent to 10 per cent of pensions in the new sanctioned substance. Sure, it's a positive arrangement, but it's a poor arrangement. As the speakers have just spoken from this bench, in fact, there is a profound need to address certain arrangements. So we all know about the problems that pensioners have had in this country; we've discussed it over and over in the commissions, the General Assembly; we've given questions motions, research proposals, but unfortunately, during this past period, we've failed in this General Assembly a legal arrangement that has led to a radical solution to pensioners' problems. I mean, it's a big shame for all of us. The truth is, most of the pensioners live below the hunger line, and they also live largely below the poverty line, most pensioners have to do additional jobs. So after he retired, he'd still call it a living, and since he's still worried about living, if people have to work again, there's a very serious level of lag here. We're dealing with a really bad picture, especially when you compare the pensioners' monthly amounts to European countries. We shared the digital data of all of this in the process, so we don't have to share it one by one at this time of night, but if the monthly salary of pensioners in most European countries is equivalent to the salary of middle-class employees here, something in that country isn't right. Is it because this country has no resources? Certainly not, because this country's resources are being misused, because they haven't been transferred to the right places, because this country's resources have been stolen, because they haven't been retired. I've always felt a great deal of regret about this: I mean, when you go to a tourist destination that needs to be seen in this country on any occasion, you always see retirees from Europe or pensioners from all over the world coming in with their backpacks on their backs to this country. Of course, we don't feel bad about this painting, but it's really upsetting to all of us that pensioners in this country can't go through something like this. People who have spent their years in this country and have retired for the sake of the state, people who have been kneaded with Anatolian soil, if they're suffering from a loss that can't even see the beauty of this country once they retire, then we all really need to put the hat in front of it. We've been through this kind of, uh, luxury demands, and a pensioner has become afraid of getting sick in this country. I mean, we've come to a level where, I don't know, when he goes to the hospital, he's been tested, he's had private hospital rations, pensioners are now afraid of getting sick. Even if the House couldn't do anything, it would have made arrangements in this period that would seriously relieve pensioners of health-related issues, which would have exempted pensioners from all these additional contributions, but unfortunately, as I said, there's a total parliamentary practice left in these matters. I don't want to drag it out too much at this time of night, but if it's a pensioner's problem, I'm just gonna go through two important groups by narrating them. There's a large number of people who don't fill their age and pay bonus days. Again, there was a large percentage of people who had to fill the bonus days and wait for their age to retire. And there have been a lot of opposition proposals here, but you haven't figured it out. So you're going to face a retirement community with mountain problems. I hope, in this period of time, unresolved problems will be dealt with seriously in Parliament and will be dealt with seriously. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0248par0055	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Minister of Labor and Social Security Faruk Çelik for the government. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0249par0059	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we're actually discussing a law that we've reached an agreement with, but perhaps some of our friends are wondering why it's getting a little long. Notice that each item is an arrangement that concerns the very important parts of society. So I respect that, of course, there's no harm in letting friends take the stand, they need to evaluate, and we respect that every political party has to comment on these issues. Now, I'd like to point out that the social security premium has been entered into our system in 1999 by the locals, the merchants, the people who work in their name and account. Others are involved in 2003, in 2003, with a support bonus for the USSR and other pensioners. Why was this needed? It is clear: When Turkey has a 38-40-year-old pension and those pensioners start working off the books, on the one hand it's over 50 per cent off the books, and on the other hand you will provide access to the new generation, social security, and employment. They've led us to new areas. What is it? It's a social security benefit. I agree, it's never there, it's never there, but it's needed; 48 years old, 50 years old retirement led us to these points. So now, what do we do? We're lowering these rates. On the one hand, the retirement age is rising, and on the other hand, we're lowering rates in these areas. Now, what are we bringing in today, fellas? We're gonna need it on the land and on the election. At the age of 65, our citizens who have no income receive 65-year-old monthly; this is paid $145 during the period of the 13-year period. If we do this arrangement together, hopefully, our citizens will get $200.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0250par0063	Go ahead and spend it!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0249par0064	The other is a raise. No, we did it in 2003, we did it in 2011. As well as agriculture BUG-KUR, hikes reached 150 per cent to the BUG-KUR residents in agriculture during the period. We don't remember it at this time, we've already made a lot of effort to keep these parts from getting inflation, to raise our pensioners and pensioners a lot more than inflation, and with this 100 TL, we've increased our pensioner by $100 million and $80,000 by $100, and the cost is $4 billion. The total transfer of $145 euros for a 65-year-old month to the elderly is $322,000, and the reduction of 15 per cent to 10 euros under social security benefits is $435,000. There's a total of about $5 billion transferred to our pensioners and 65-year-olds. Now, my friends, I'm saying that Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- just now the esteemed president -- said, "We're going to give you a salary of 2." I'm now in charge of these institutions, 26 billion dollars as of today. He must have done the math. He's a politician from these institutions.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0251par0067	Of course he did.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0249par0068	That's an account they'll do for themselves. It's not right for us to go and say anything in that area right now, but here, we are, on a regular basis, an effort to improve the situation of our pensioners with budget resources. We have brought to your attention the needs of all segments, the needs of 76 million, as a product of a computation that may be realistic, possible, and available. I'd like to say that you're going to consider it in this frame, and you're going to contribute, and you're going to be a great pleasure to our pensions, thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0252par0071	Thank you, Mr. Steel. There are two proposals on the new item, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the new clause added to the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill should be changed in the following way. Aytüg Thrower Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğün Çelebi Süleyman Çelebi Binnaz Earth Proposes Ali Haydar The third joke (b) of Article 30 of Article 48 of Law 5510 has been lifted from effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 47th of the current bill of law. 48 to come after the clause. We propose that the matter be changed in the following manner. Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Murat Basesgioğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Cemalettin Simsek The third joke of Article 30 (b) of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 31/5/2006 and Article 5510 has been lifted from effect. Does the Commission agree with this motion that I made last read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0253par0090	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0252par0091	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0254par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards. Of course, when you make an arrangement, you must not act as if you were. We are constantly saying that the social security premium is an unfair cut, and Mr. Secretary agrees, but 15 per cent cuts are reduced to 10 per cent. This is now an arrangement, such as "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" or "a" I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question from this bench. Mr. Secretary, as I recall, last year in this House, you were able to restructure the tradesman's social security fees for members of the Social Security Agency. How many people have built up this social security premium? Some of them paid, most of them. So, in the face of this arrangement, in this configuration, what have those who have paid their debts become, what have you done? Again, when that arrangement was brought in, we said in the Plan and Budget Commission and in the General Assembly: this is wrong. All social security benefits for the past must be erased and 15 per cent of social security benefits must not be received. (In the end, that is the point of Turkey's future.) What could be the name of this SGDP (SGDP) in our literature, where the money was forced from the pension of this businessman and artist, who started his pension while he was retired or continued to run his current business? Extortion.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0255par0097	It's a mugging.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0254par0098	So let's just call it what we call it because there's absolutely no response. In the definition of taxes, pictures, and tuitions... it comes from the money itself, it has nothing. Therefore, it is an unfair purchase and extortion to receive social security benefits from the tradesman, who also operates economic activities and employs jobs. This needs to be removed completely. That's what we're proposing. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0256par0101	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the new clause added to the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill should be changed in the following way. The third joke (b) of Article 30 of Article 48-5510 of the Law has been lifted from effect. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0257par0111	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0256par0112	Mr. Proposal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0258par0114	Mr. President, in our country, where the unemployment rate, as of December 2014, is 10.9 per cent higher, 20.2 per cent higher than the young unemployment rate, and 20.2 per cent higher than 1524; in our country, where the jobless rate of higher education is higher, most of the workers lack human life opportunities. The minimum wage is 949, the hunger limit is 1,301 Turkish liras, and the poverty limit is 4.238 liras. In June 2011, pensioners were disappointed that they were not granted the level of discretion they were promised, and in the coming years, they were left with a funny amount of increase. The Ministry of Finance has insisted on cutting in on the promotions. The only indicators of pensioners who didn't have sufficient means of livelihood while working have been the amount that has reached the unpayable levels of their credit cards. Some of the pensioners are studying children, and some of them want to retire and use their bonus to get kids to study. Homes in retirement pay bank loans or installments until they die. People who don't get paid enough to work, who don't get paid, are miserable in retirement. The Republican People's Party will bring in two festivals a year. Thus, the harvest season, the nut season, the grain season, will now be added to the promise of payment in the vintage. In contrast, the promise of an election-end increase reached the maximum of 100 Turkish liras announced by Prime Minister Davutoglu will be referred to as an epic by the government. Mr. President, at the end of 2014, 28.4 per cent of our pensioners, 10 million 920,901, are forced to work. 34.6% of retired men work. 7 per cent of pensioners have to work. But there's a painting that's more severe, 50 percent of pensioners under 55 have to work, and 20 percent of people over 65 have to work. Given the average human life expectancy in Turkey, it is very painful for some of our pensioners to have to work until they walk to Hakkk, and to lend money to their heirs is human drama. For those who spend their lives in service to their country, it is a shameful practice in the name of the state. It's unfair to cut a 10% social security premium from pensioners who have to work at 15% or tonight's arrangement. The removal of a 15% pensioner's social security allowance will partially relieve our pensioners and our commercial potential tradesman. Besides, working pensioners will be able to get off the books. It is the duty of mankind as much as it is to give our pensioners the satisfaction of providing support for their children, grandchildren, to create vacations, travel, and so forth. The farmer is miserable because it's expensive, the unemployed are miserable, the unemployed are miserable, the shop owner who can't open and save the day is miserable, the producer is miserable, the production economy is paralyzed, the ratings are four corners. In that respect, social security benefits from pensioners in the Republic's People's Party will be reset, regardless of what they try to reset. My respects to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0259par0122	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, I submit the new item to your votes...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0260par0125	Wait a minute, I wanted a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0259par0126	That's over, sir, and since we've come to the motions, you should have requested it earlier. Something else, then... All those in favor of the new item... Those who don't agree... New substance accepted. Now, there are two proposals for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 47 of the Law shall be adopted in accordance with Business Health and Safety Act No. 687. You have brought Lightning Münir Kutluata Yusuf Halaçoğlu The first joke of Article 41 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 48, added the bell below, and the following sentence was added after the first sentence of the third joke. "k) When studying at vocational upper secondary schools with apprentices mentioned in vocational education code 3308 or students subject to internship during higher education," "In the event of borrowing the time spent in the first joke (k), the date for which the training and training began is based on the start date of the insurance policy." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We don't agree, Mr. President. Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 47 of the Law shall be adopted in accordance with Business Health and Safety Act No. 687. You have brought Lightning Münir Kutluata Yusuf Halaçoğlu The following joke was added to Article 60 of the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 48-5510. "The date 4/11/1981 and the Law on Higher Education No. 2547 additional 29. According to the article, those who are paid for or who are not under general health insurance or who are under the obligation to care are generally health insuranceed, limited by the amount of time they are paid. In this way, the general health insurance premiums of those who are considered general health insurance are half of the thirty-day minimum of the primary daily earnings set by Article 82 of the Law. These bonuses are paid by universities where students study." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We can't participate, Mr. President. Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. There's another motion for a new substance requirement, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 47 of Law Bill 687, which is currently in session, and that other substances be identified accordingly. The second joke (b) of Article 80 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, dated 48-31/5/2006, has been revoked. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Since the Commission has joined the motion with its majority, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Mr. Aytuğ Atcı will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0261par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a personal pledge on a clause added to our 687 rows of Bill of Law. Another item had just been added, and the government reduced the rate of social security benefits cut from pensions to 10 per cent. I'm rereading the reason: who cut it off from their pensions? The government is interrupting. So you're cutting off the men's money 15%, and then you're saying, "Well, I donated 5 percent. I mean, I'm amazed that Mr. Secretary is going to come up here and tell you like it's a big deal. Even if you reduce it to 0 percent, you get up here, sir, we've cut your salary all these years, and we're sorry. When you have to say "I'm sorry," we did this, we dropped 10 percent here. You make it look like you've done something to the pensioner. There's nothing you guys are doing. You've been in power for 12 years, 13 years, you could've done it, you could've solved it. In the past, mistakes have been made, incomplete, anything can happen. You've been aware of this for 12 years, and we've been saying this for years. We put this on our election program in 2011, and we promised it, so we gave you the clue four years ago. Four years ago, you should've at least dropped it to 10 percent so the pensioner could have a little more prosperity. It's now reduced to 10 percent, okay, it's not a bad thing, but at least you have to hand over the pensioner's rights to him. Let's take a look at the social aspect of this. Why does a pensioner work? Why does he work? Not everyone retires as well as the lawmakers, lives until they retire. He's retired and forced to work because he's starving in a place where he likes grandkids. Now, what you're saying to the man or the lady is: you're retired, you're going to crawl, you're going to starve, you're going to work, but if you work, I'm going to cut 15 percent of the money. How should such logic be considered socially? What kind of conscience would it be, my friends? You're the pensioner: thank you so much, you've contributed to our economy all these years, contributed to our bureaucracy. Because of you, our country has come to this, so let us sit at home, cut off your victim, give your candy, give your holiday allowance to your grandson. When you should have said, "We have prepared integration programs for you, let us adapt to the retirement life of the bride, be happy, enjoy the happiness you haven't been in your whole life." We make them work, and we make them pay a bonus for the employee's salary. That's not how it works, guys. We have two important words to retire, three important words even. Number one: We've narrowed it down to 10 percent. We're going to reduce the social security benefit you call a zero, there's no discussion. Two: we will never give up our law of retirement. And we're not only going to do that, we're going to do this to the poor pensioner who really needs it. Three: We're going to pay our pensioners a salary bonus every religious holiday, to begin with, precisely, from the first holiday, period.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0170	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Now we're in the QA section. Mr. Kuşoglu, here you are, sir...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0263par0173	Mr. Secretary, the SGK budget was $205 billion, if I recall, for 2015, and there's about 20 million insured. If each of them paid $100 a month, they'd make 1,200 liras, 240 billion dollars a year's worth of income, so that's 100 lira bonuses. So, you have a cost budget of 223 billion dollars, and you shouldn't have a lot of $26 billion, so I think you shouldn't have said that two salary bonuses are a lot of money for pensioners. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0175	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0264par0177	Sir, of course, this is going to be a long debate, during this election, everyone will say it in the squares. But I'll tell you this: the result of a long struggle last year, we closed the social security deficit at 20 billion. The numbers we're talking about, if you take into account what's just been said here, are about 60 billion dollars, 60 quadrillion liras. We're talking 60 quadrillion plus 20 quadrillion, totaling 80 quadrillion liras. Of course, if such a budget is being created, and our nation sees it as realistic, we respect it, but what I said was that with all the budget resources, we've provided a realistic wage increase, a salary increase. And thank you for your question, thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0179	Thank you, Mr. Steel. I submit the new item to your votes: Those who don't agree... A new substance has been accepted and thus developed into a new substance. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 48 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 49, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 49 of the current law bill 687 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0265par0192	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0266par0193	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0194	I'm reading the reason: The issue of this arrangement is based on different laws in effect. This is against the basic rule of law. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 49 is accepted. On the 50th article, there are three proposals, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following sentence to the second joke of the additional 10th clause, which is envisioned to be added to Article 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act, under Article 50 of the current Law Bill 687. Before the release of this clause, however, the rights to the first joke of Article 4 (a) are reserved as part of the period of insurance work. Binnaz Earth Kadir Gökmen Reminder The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 50 of the current law bill 687 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baliken Adil Zozani Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0267par0221	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0268par0222	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0223	I'm having him read his motive: What physicians do in health care is what they do. The introduction of such services to subcontractors is illegal and unconstitutional. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm reading two proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following sentence to the second joke of the additional 10th clause, which is envisioned to be added to Article 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act, under Article 50 of the current Law Bill 687. However, the rights of the first joke (a) of Article 4 (a) prior to the release of this clause are reserved as part of the period of insurance work. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0269par0237	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0238	I'm reading the reasons for these two motions: The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends The clause, which provides services at private health institutions and services and pays the price of their services by billing the insurance of physicians and dentists, aims to avoid uncertainty and maintain the same rights to services that have been served in the period prior to the execution of this clause. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The arrangement to determine the insurance relationship of physicians and dentists who are receiving the bill of service offered in private health institutions and institutions is explained in terms of the rights earned in terms of the same way in the past years. I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature that I have made read their reasons: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with these motions, I submit to your votes the 50th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 50th article has been accepted. There's a motion for a new clause, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit to amendments to certain Laws and Laws under the 687 Law of Business Health and Safety, which are currently in session, to include the following clause after Article 50, and to subject the following substances accordingly. You have brought Lightning Münir Kutluata Yusuf Halaçoğlu The following article has been added to the Law No. 51-5510. "After 11-13/5/2014, any debt to the institution is abandoned, and the rights holders of the second clause of Article 32 (a) are bound monthly according to the provisions prescribed by the Law. The amount of premiums predicted in this Law will be paid by the Ministry of Finance. In the income and monthly bonding of the deceased insurance holder to his parents, conditions are not required that the first joke of Article 34 (d) will be less than the minimum amount of income and per month's income specified by each and all other children, except the income earned and the monthly income and/or non-connected. For reasons stated in the first joke, the employment provisions of a spouse and children of the deceased, a spouse and a child, are also applied in Article 3713 of Law No. 1. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this clause are found by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We can't participate, Mr. President. Since the commission failed to participate in the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0270par0262	He didn't invite me, Mr. President. Did you invite the Commissioners?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0263	Now, there's a new substance requirement, I'm having it read.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0270par0264	Mr. President, did he invite the Commissioners?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0271par0265	Mr. President, he didn't invite, he didn't ask, he said he didn't. I mean, do you agree or disagree...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0266	Now, the Commission said they didn't participate.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0271par0267	But he didn't ask the Commission...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0272par0268	But he didn't invite me, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0269	I think the commission's there, guys, but they didn't...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0271par0270	Raise your hand, always raise your hand.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0271	Now there's another motion for a new clause, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Bill 687 rows. "The following joke has been added to the temporary 14th Article of Law 51 - 5510. The 15% of the first joke (b) is applied in July 2015 and at 10% of the following period of payment." Naci Bostancı Hakan Çağoğlu Ramazan Can Mehmet Doğan Kubat Fatih Şahin Recep Special Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority? We have only a majority, Mr. President. Yeah, well...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0273par0285	It just happened to be...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0286	But they don't agree. There must be 14 of them now. Now, since the Commission has joined the motion with its only majority, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Any requests for an interview? No. The new item...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0274par0291	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0292	Are you going to speak for the person, or are you going to speak for the group?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0293	It's for the band.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0262par0294	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0295	With all due respect, I salute you all. I know you're sleepy, but there are citizens who can't sleep, and we still have people who collect from the garbage on their pension at night. You may sleep, but... you've put this community to sleep, and this society will no longer sleep. And let's just get it all sorted out and get out of here. Well, let's figure it out, folks, what do you really give this country's pensioners as a result of this arrangement? The culture of charity, it's about charity. Just before the election, we announced to the public that our president was meeting with all retired unions, associations, all social parties, and then you woke up. This community won't believe you. This society will no longer return to you with these tiny improvements. We made it very clear that the pension will not be below the age of hunger. What does that mean? We said there would be no salary under $1,340. Number two: we're going to take out the constitutional law and we're going to eliminate these unjust practices. Three: we said we'd remove 15 percent cuts. Four: We said we would remove the share of the share of the share. Five: We said to the pensioners: "We will pay a salary for the sacrifice and the (Sugar) and the Ramadan Bayrams."
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0276par0297	How many retirees?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0298	We know, we know, we do the math. Now, in the next article, I'm going to put it in your account, we know. Our president doesn't do populist politics, he doesn't do politics at the last minute. Our president doesn't say anything he doesn't believe in, and he doesn't sign under it.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0277par0300	Tell me who sunk the SEC.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0301	That's why it's our president's promise knowing the accounts and knowing where he came from. I have something to say. Are you upset? Now, friends, I have more to say. How impatient you are. The more you look forward to it, the more I talk. I speak in every article. Instead of making small talk on every item, listen.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0278par0303	Speak, speak till the morning!
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0279par0304	How many pensioners?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0305	Now, that's where we put the right to unionize pensioners again. Again, we promised pensioners promotions, which you don't give them, pensioners. Now, I count all of that matter. So, now, friends, with all the improvements you've brought, the raises you've given me before have already put grass in the lives of pensioners. With what you're saying, "Zam" you've made inflammatory moans, most of them are paid under hunger, and you've lowered their salary rates further with this new arrangement, and now you're thinking that you're going to make up with partial improvements here. It's not gonna happen anymore. You know, the current President, who was an apprentice before, then he was an apprentice, then he was an expert, and now he's found a new system -- he's always played victims, this system, it's finished, this sea is finished -- now he's got a new dream. The new imaginary kingdom system, the presidential system. If he becomes president, Turkey will be saved.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0279par0306	What does the presidency have to do with it?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0307	You're not going to cheat on this nation once you're president, for him. This arrangement will no longer cut pensioners, pensioners will no longer be allowed to play this game, pensioners will no longer allow this charity culture, and pensioners will not vote for you, friends; know this. (CHP cheers) So now, the new script.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0279par0308	You said the same thing in 2011.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0280par0309	It's the same story for nine years.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0310	You've been telling the same stories for thirteen years, you've been moaning for thirteen years, you've had workers working under the hunger line, you've paid pensioners for thirteen years, you've been keeping them here, you're holding them, a handful, a tickle.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0281par0311	We've been in power for thirteen years.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0275par0312	These pensioners don't come alive with water, I tell you from these pensioners no more, I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0282par0314	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. There's a motion on matter, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the new clause added to the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill should be changed in the following way. Aytücı Küdir Gökmen Öğüğül Kemal Millerdereli Ramadan Kerim Özkan Ali Haydar Öner Osman Taney Ökuturk The Act No. 51-5510 is temporary. The item is removed with the title. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0283par0326	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0282par0327	Mr. Millerdere, please. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0284par0330	Mr. President, we're discussing an important law at the end of the 24th term. In particular, in these last few articles, my friends have made clear the possibilities for pensioners, especially in the rule of the Republican People's Party. From June 8th, our pensioners will experience a new era, a peaceful period, and we give this news today, the last day of the House. I'd like to share with you two very important issues: with this law, some really positive arrangements have been made, especially with the cooperation of our workers, with their safer work and their working time shortened, they will have a safer and more peaceful working period. But there's one thing we have to focus on here, especially because of the five-day work of our underground workers, we've discussed the challenges of the industry with our Minister of Energy before, as we haven't taken the measures to address them here -- I was hoping, and I was promised -- we looked for them in the incentive package that Mr. Prime Minister explained, but we didn't find them there either. So, unfortunately, during the time of these shortages, especially the underground mining in Turkey will experience a great deal of trouble, so the vast majority of our mines will be at closing point. So today, instead of the AKP government that doesn't put that will and can't, we're going to replace it with Republican People's Party power after 8 June. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another important thing is, there's a Zonguldak in this bill, there's Soma, there's Ermenek, there's even Ceylanpınar, but there's no Edirne. So as Edirne MP, I made a cry about the riots and the plagues of the floods here in Edirne. He was here a while ago, Mr. Ramadan, Mr. Kırıkkale MP, he had made promises, Mr.Kemal, we're going to get rid of these victims, we're going to fix them. But they didn't say that in the previous bag of laws or in this bill of law, they didn't say that again. In Edirne, lawmakers, the extremists are becoming a common phenomenon, a chronic one. He needs a quick intervention here. Mr. Minister said we're going to build a channel, but it doesn't work with the canal. We need to clear that 220km of Meric River from the point when it was poured into the Aegean Sea. So this is a very important need. Even here, the sets have been split in 64 places, and tens of thousands of acres can't be planted. So this is where these sets need to be investigated, and we need to be able to do this cleanup in the future, and we need to make sure that these problems don't happen anymore. The AKP government didn't put that will up until now. From now on, I hope, after June 8th, we will perform this service to the enlightened people of Edirne, ruling the Republican People's Party. With this feeling and thought and faith, I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0285par0337	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0286par0338	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit09spe0285par0339	I will, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 90th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The decision of Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli and his friends to vote on the removal of the new clause violation on the Law Bill 687 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0287par0005	Let's do it with the electronics, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0006	It doesn't look like it. We'll vote with the electronics. I'll give you a minute, I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the new item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the new item is accepted. There's a motion on Article 51 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 51 of the current 687 rows of the bill from the draft text. İdris Bauken Sırıyya Önder Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Adil Zozani Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0288par0023	We can't agree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0024	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to remove the relevant clause, which constitutes a violation of the Constitution and the law, from the draft text. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 51st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 52 that I'm reading: I propose and propose that Article 52 of the current 687 Orders Numbered Bill be removed from the Charter text. Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Yusuf Ziya İrbeç Ali Halaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0289par0039	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0290par0040	Motive.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0041	I'm reading the reason: An arrangement from students sent abroad by the SEC is not fundamentally intended to resolve a problem that allows debtable students to borrow money during their term. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 52nd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "28/10/2014" in Article 53 of the current 687 rows of the bill be changed into "the act of this law." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that between the date 13/5/2014 and 28/10/2014 (due to the date of "22/5/2003" on the 53rd Amendment of the Law Bill. Erkan Akçay Murat Başesgioğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 687 Orders of Business Health and Safety Act and the amendment of Article 53 of the Law shall be changed as follows. With all due respect. Aytücı Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan İkturk Musa Pine Article 53-5510 and the General Health Insurance Act 10.9,2014 and Law 6552 63. Interim 59 added to the clause. In the first joke of the article, the statement was changed in Soma district of Manisa Province on 13/5/2014," and the third joke was removed from the workplaces of lignite and extremism since (10/6/2003). Does the Commission agree with this motion I'm reading? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0291par0072	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0292par0073	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0074	I'm reading the reason: In the first statement of Article 10/9/2014, the 63rd article of Law No. 6552 and Interim Article 510 and the Act on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance, added to the Act 5510, "The death of the person who died as a result of a mining accident in Soma district of Manisa Province on 13/5/2014; any debt to the institution is abandoned, and its rightful owners are subject to the second clause of Article 32 (a) regardless of the conditions specified by me. The lack of premiums predicted in this Law will be paid by the Ministry of Finance to the Institution." In its third joke, it is said that "a spouse and a child of the insurance officer who died for reasons stated in the first joke also applies to the employment provisions of Article 3713 of Law No. 3 concerning a person, if he does not have a wife and children." The rights provided with matter are limited to those left behind by those who lost their lives in the Soma tragedy. The layout is based on the search for suppressing social sensitivity after the Soma mining accident. The distinction between those who lost their lives in the Soma mining accident and those who lost their lives in the mine accidents in Zonguldak or those who lost their lives in the Armenian mining accident is contrary to the universal laws of the Constitution and the law. In the first joke of the article, the expression "In the Soma district of Manisa province on 13/5/2014," has been changed from 10/6/2003 to "Liniyet and extremism in workplaces," and thus the "social state" of the regulation and the "society state" and the principles of equality in front of the state" and "the state of justice" in which the law of law has entered into force since 10/6/2003. On the other hand, the third joke, proposed to be added to Article 557 after the second joke of the Law on State Officers' Law on this subject, is hereby removed from the third joke of Article 55510, as one of the spouses and children of those who have lost their lives due to a business accident or occupational illness since 10/6/2003, is expected to be appointed directly to the government office without the condition of a test. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the date between the date of the 13/5/2014 and the 28/10/2014 (due) date of 22/5/2003 (due to the amendment of the Law) in Article 53 shall be changed to the date of the amendment of the Law." Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0293par0088	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0089	I'm having it read. The lack of adequate work safety measures, the fact that the ILO Convention on Business Health and Safety in Mines 176 has not been approved by our country on time and the necessary integration of internal legislation, the lack of unional organisation, the independence of trade union elections, the employment safety experts depend on the employer for work and wages, and especially the lack of control increases business accidents in mines. Because of all this negativity, Turkey is first in the world in mortal mining accidents. Between 1955-2014, 3,410 miners were killed by mining accidents, 326 thousand miners were injured, 15,000 of our miners suffered professional illness. The possibilities for the families of those who died in Soma's mine disaster on May 13, 2014, with Article 53 of the bill, are also known to the families of those who lost their lives in the mine disaster in Ermenek on 28/10/2014. One of the first acts of the AKP government, which came to power on 3 November 2012, was to transfer the mines to the private sector with methods such as rejection and service. Privatisation, subcontractorization, service purchase and redevac and so on. As a result of wrong practices, there has been a serious increase in fatal accidents as a result of leaving the mining industry, experience and expertise to people and companies without experience. It was intended that both subcontractorization, redevance and service in the mines should be used for the rights given to the families of the Somal mine martyrs who died in underground mining accidents from 22 May 2003, when accidents began to increase and the Labour Law was published. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "28/10/2014" in Article 53 of the current 687 rows of the bill be changed to "this law is in effect." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0294par0103	We disagree.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0104	I'm having him read his motive: The change was intended to include accidents that could have occurred until the date of execution. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 53 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 54, all three of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 54 of the current law bill number 687 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Corporate Nazmi Gür Sırrıyya Leader The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan Kokturk İzzet Cetin Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Yusuf Ziya İrbeç Murat Basesgioğlu Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0295par0131	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0296par0132	Motive...
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0133	I'm getting you to read your reasons: In accordance with the Bank's Law, it is intended to halt the operation launched by the Social Security Agency by removing joint and inclusive responsibilities of senior executives and non-companionary owners of the board of capital owners and members who are under the management of companies, which are under bankruptcy, closure and so on. This provision, causing public damage and encouraging employers to engage in illegal activities, should be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0297par0136	Sir, Mr. Hamzacebi will speak on our proposal.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0285par0137	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0298par0139	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers aim to dismiss the motion we've made on this clause we're discussing. Our reason is that due to tax debts, the taxpayers' responsibility is organised in the Tax Code, and insurance premiums are held in Law 5510 due to their debt. As a rule, the responsibility must be subject to the same conditions, due to the premium debt or tax debt; there is no different responsibility in one, and there is no different responsibility in the other. The terms of the tax debt must be the same and the provisions of the insurance premium debt. However, as the government undertook Law 5510, the insurance premium debt held a different responsibility. He increased the number of those involved in this responsibility. I give an example: According to the Tax Usul Law, the legal representatives of that anonymous company, the board members, are responsible for the tax debt of an anonymous company, and that is the rule. Law 5510 included this responsibility, including the responsibility due to the premium debt, including a number of executive staff who are not members of the company's board, for example, who are not members of the company's board, the head manager of the company, the manager of the financial affairs, and the executives of the company, even if they are not members of the insurance premium debt. Perhaps, the government may have made such a choice. I don't think it's right to differentiate the responsibility due to tax and premium debt, but the government may have adopted such a policy. This practice has been carried out so far. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group, or rather, the government says, "Sir, let's ease that responsibility a little." In companies that have been bankrupted, decided to fail, or have ended the bankruptcy decision, those responsible who are not members of the company's board -- this could be the general manager, this could be the manager of finances, not to be responsible for the insurance premium debt, if there are some transactions that have been started on them as of the date of this clause, if there is any ongoing, foreclosure transactions, if these are terminated, foreclosures have been removed. Now, I'd like to ask you: you brought this on time. We're going to collect the insurance premium debt. The institution's operational balances are not good. You said, "We need this prevention." You said, you got this. Now you're saying we did it wrong, but let's just make it right a little bit. I don't accept that. If there is a mistake, you will equate the responsibility in the Tax Code with the responsibility in Law 5510. If you're doing something partial, I'm thinking, what is it, what is it, and who is it that you're making this correction? Who's responsible for this?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0299par0141	What's the amount?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0298par0142	How much is it? If it's a mistake, go for everyone, not just for a certain person or person. That's why we want this non-transparent substance removed from the bill. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0145	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: This clause has nothing to do with the overall scope of the bill, but it has a pre-election abuse quality. A change is intended to address these problems. I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions on Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "five times" clause in Article 55 of the current 687 rows of the bill be changed to "double." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following sentence to Article 687, under Article 55 of the Common Health Insurance Act 5510, and Article 62, which is envisioned to be added to the General Health Insurance Act. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hakan Çağoğlu 'For the verbs involved in this clause, 'the sums collected prior to the date of the application of this clause are not subject to extradition or restitution."'
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0301par0165	We're pulling back.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0166	One of the motions has been withdrawn. Does the Commission agree with my latest motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0302par0170	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0171	I'm having him read his motive: The administrative fines collected prior to the adoption of the law that violates this clause are intended not to be extradited or allowed. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Due to this motion accepted, I will remove the other motion from the process. I submit Article 55 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 55 is accepted. There are two proposals on Article 56, I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the following terms of the Law Bill 687 are changed to four months in accordance with Article 56 of the Charter. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Secrets by Darayya Leader Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 56 of the Law Bill 687 be removed from the draft text. Alim İlk Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu You've brought Lightning Ali Oz Ali Halaman Does the Commission agree with my latest motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0303par0195	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0196	I'm reading the reason: The bill lacks regulations that are expected in public and will compensate for the loss of our citizens. With some minor improvements ahead of the upcoming 25th-century parliamentary general elections, the proposed text of problems that have been pending for years should be included in the draft text, rather than in AKP's arrangements for political profit. The removal of the clause from the draft will benefit the public and the nation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 56 of the current law bill 687, we propose that three months and four months be changed to four months. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0304par0207	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0208	I'm having him read his alibi. It is intended that those affected by change should be given a longer window of time. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit to you the 56th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 56th article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 57. 57 of the 687 Numbered Bill of Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Alim İlk Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu You've brought Lightning Ali Oz Ali Halaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0305par0226	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit10spe0300par0227	I'm having it read. The bill lacks regulations that are expected in public and will compensate for the loss of our citizens. A number of minor improvements ahead of the upcoming 25th term parliamentary elections must be included in the draft text of problems that have been pending for years, rather than in the AKP's arrangements for political interests. The removal of matter from the draft will benefit the public and the nation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 57th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-03sit11spe0300par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 90th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 687. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 696, which is ranked in the sixth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Saturday (April 4th 2015). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
