tbmm-2015-04-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Serkal Kakuncu, who wants to talk about investments in the province of Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to investments in Kütahya, during these last days of the 24th Legislature. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my words, my condolences to yesterday's martyred Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, God bless him, his family, and our entire nation. It's a love, Kütahya. The state of Anatolia is the capital of Germian, the city of princes, the city of Kütahya, the city of history, nature, the spa, the city of art. The Ottoman Empire was founded on Domanic plateaus, and the Turkish nation's fate was drawn in Dumlupınar in the Battle of the Supreme Commandership Square. Kütahya is a beauty hidden in history, art, nature, and thermal. The beautiful people of Asia Minor, who are loyal to their state, to their nation, live in our Kütahya. Of course, Kütahya deserves the best of everything. However, prior to our Kütahya's EC PARTY, many investments had been neglected and, compared to the surrounding provinces, the scissors of development had been opened. Now, as the AK PARTY, we are making key moves for the development and development of our Kütahya, making important investments for the welfare and future of our people. The people who said, "What's been done?" About 6 billion dollars from 2002 to 2014 to Kütahya, the largest public investments and transfers in its history amounted to about 6 quadrillion dollars in old money. Kütahya met natural gas through the AK PARTY. WITH TOKI, 8,000 families have acquired housing, new projects are coming. An urban transformation has begun with the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and 100 million dollars has been transferred to our city. Our villages survived the mud with a locked stone. The sewage production rate across the province of Kütahya has reached 98 per cent. We don't have any villages without drinking water. dozens of dams, ponds, irrigation, flood protection and river reforms were made by the DSI. The AK PARTY opened up the roads of Kütahya all around. From Kütahya to Afyon, Bozsük, Hagan, Altıntaş-Dümlupınar, ryerhisar-Lanapa our paths are divided now and the BSK is hot asphalt. It's a ryehisar-Gediz-Abide-Support road. Abide-Simav was also projected, and it will begin production. We're building the Simav Mountain Road. For 40 years, Balıkesir has been our undocumented path. It's all the way from Simav to Rabbit-Domanic. Victory Airport with the AK PARTY became the gateway to our Kütahya. During the Hajj and Umra, we now send our citizens off to the Holy Land from our own airport. The weekly European and Cyprus campaigns are about to begin. High-speed train coming to Kütahya. The Kütahya-Fishesir railway is being renovated. From the provinces of Anatolia to the ports of Europe will be reached via Kütahya. Dear lawmakers, we have 50,000 new employees in Kütahya and AK PARTY in 13 years. We have 130,000 active employees. In the incentive system, the 4th district is being encouraged, while in our organised industries, the 5th region is being encouraged. In all, around 11,000 people work in four organised factories. In exchange for negative propaganda and gossip politics, we have recently informed that two five-star hotel-level city hospital tenders -- one of which is a rehabilitation centre -- have been launched. The AK PARTY and the Rabbit State Hospital, the Citadel and the Rydarhisar Hospitals, the Kütahya Mouth and Dental Health, the Chelebi Emergency Unit, Domanic Dialysis Center, 16 medical clinics. We're building our hospitals in Gediz and Emet. We're starting Simav Hospital. The abandoned building inside the university is being converted into a 400-bed hospital. In the past, even for the simplest study and treatments, you'd go to neighboring cities, waiting three months for an MRI. We are now at the level of hundreds of open-heart surgeries per year in our county. Since 2002, we have conducted 100 schools, 1,700 classes in Kütahya and our counties. The number of students at Dumlupınar University reached 50,000 from 23,000. The number of teachers doubled in ten years. In the past four years alone, the Kütahya headquarters have been built or completed by the SGK building, the Victory Development Agency, the emergency call centre, the city's private administration building, the 6,000-strong new buildings within the brigade, the youth centre, the city's closed gym. The new prison, the courthouse, the police department, the county agricultural manager's new service buildings have been put into investment programme. In our counties, government mansions, sports halls, synthetic grass fields, these are being built. Dear lawmakers, it is not enough hours to explain investments with the EC PARTY in Kütahya. But we're going to build more projects to close our gaps in the past and move fast. Finally, those who invest in Kütahya win. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Reşat True, who wants to talk about substance abuse and consequences in schools. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to drug use in schools. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words -- of course, we're coming to the end of the term -- I want to thank our President Güldal Mumcu Ma'am for promising off the agenda in the 23rd and 24th term. Also, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code, I've used it most of the time -- he promises to give us a minute, so I'd like to say thank you on behalf of all my friends. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, research by various NGOs and law enforcement officials, among schools and young people, is becoming increasingly dependent on substance abuse, particularly drugs. National Education, Narcotics, AMATEM centres and universities have made strong statements at the point where urgent measures must be taken. In schools, all high school students, especially the eighth graders, are at risk, said to be at risk. Studies show that nine of every 10 children and young people who use drugs come from low and low income families. Most of these young people are children who live with their families, not in a broken family. In addition, the worst case is that one of the two children starts drugs because of their friends and often rejects treatment. But in schools across Turkey, we don't know the statistics of substance abuse, unfortunately. But I'd like to say that the knowledge of statistical information is very important to the fight. We have ESPAD (the European School Survey for Alcohol and Drugs Project) in European countries, unfortunately, which is not being implemented. According to the ESPAD project, Europeans are receiving results and struggling with treatment and treatment accordingly. However, for some reason, this project is not being implemented in our country since after 2003. After all, we don't know exactly what the consequences are in our country. The Ministry of National Education does not and does not want this project to be implemented in a way that we cannot understand. That's not true. The questions asked in the European Union can be changed, and studies can be done on them by adding new questions. It must also be acknowledged that knowing the exact state of the schools in the increasing use of drugs and drugs has a very different place in the fight. The National Ministry of Education did not do its work on 13.430 children in the 9-17-year-old group in 40 counties, and 16% of the students surveyed reportedly stated that cigarettes and 11% of them used drugs and similar substances at least once. In addition, 500 students from four schools are participating in a study conducted in the Western provinces of the Police Academy Security Management Research Centre. Age average is 16.4. 56.5% of these students are girls and 43.5% are male students. The most important question is, have you taken drugs since you started high school? The students -- it's an STD -- say 6.3 per cent of this province. They say, "Yes." 93.7 per cent say, "No." However, 17.5 per cent of school students say absolutely no, and 45.42 per cent say, very likely, maybe. It says, "It's a possibility. It's a probability. It's a probability. The proportion is 26.6 per cent. I mean, in schools, unfortunately, managers don't follow up on that. As a result, substance abuse is increasing day after day, and is expected to be treated. Respected lawmakers are interested in all institutions of the state, starting with families. No harm will come to our family, no harm will come to our child. Parents must certainly improve the quality of their relationship with their children in a very good way. I'd like to express that parents who have a strong love relationship with their children, teach them right and wrong, set practical rules for their actions, enforce them, and really listen to their children, have taken care of their children very well and have been protective of them. Family should always give their children no to alcohol and matter by expressing social, religious and religious truths, so children should be able to say no. In addition, our children abroad have very serious proportions of this issue, and in many places, our people are found to be in prison for substance abuse, drug abuse, and drug abuse. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the end, I respectfully salute the high Assembly, as well as the parents, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of National Education and Health.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Right. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the chiefs' problems. I salute you all. Dear friends, before I start speaking, I want to thank you all for bringing up the problems of East Anatolian in the first place, Veli Agababa (Agbaba) and all the friends. I'd like you to support the suggestions the CHP has brought, but it didn't. Hopefully, the Republican People's Party will be in power next semester. Dear friends, there is a tribe of Beritan in Elazig. There are 30 members of the Beritan clan, 500,000 life sheep, and they've been fined $3 million. I'm asking you, please, to remove the fine of this Beritan clan or livestock will cease. Dear friends, it is very difficult to live in Ardahan, Kars, the eastern Anatolian region; winter is heavy, climate conditions are heavy, living conditions are heavy; therefore no taxes should be taken from our tradesman in the region. The shopkeeper closes the shop without paying his taxes, he can't pay his check, he can't pay his rent, and he's miserable. The peasant is even more miserable. The peasant goes to get 3,000 or 5,000 loans from the bank, and the bank doesn't give loans. I'm also asking the banks to hear it from here: This is the Bank of Agriculture and the other banks are getting paid from the village under the name of the dosian money. Don't let them take this file money. Dear friends, as for the Mukhtars, we have 53,000 headmen across Turkey. These Mukhtars don't have a better law. There are laws in 1924, and there are laws in 1944, which rule with these laws. The Mukhtar is involved in everything from our death to our birth, everything. In that sense, the chiefs' salaries need to be improved. The Mukhtars are currently on a salary of around $870, paying around $400 in social security premiums. So you're left with $470, so where does this guy spend it? Now, we need to separate the city chief from the village chief. The city chief has his income, he gets his money, but the village head can't get his money. And when he can't get it, he's loaded from village to town, he's loaded with money, food money, expenses, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, That's why, as a government, we... the government has to pay the social security premiums outside of our mayors' salaries. Why? 'Cause he's got a nickel left. So 870 liras, 900 liras, at least that'll cover your expenses, but if the government pays around $400 with a social security premium, our owners will do better. In that sense, I also have a proposal for the chiefs, dear friends, retired chiefs. These people who used to be chief of staff, they had BUG-KUR debts when they were in charge. Let the BUG-KUR pay off their debts and let the government pay off the bonuses of those old chiefs. And if they're allowed to retire, there'll be justice. I'm also saying that right now we, the lawmakers, all of us, have pensions, but our chiefs don't have pensions. And let the chiefs who are retired or who have quit being chiefs have a pension, a little or a lot, at least, because he's the chief, and he's costing money, and he's spending money on his village. I don't think we should keep the townie and the peasant together, dear friends. And dear friends, this semester, we've all talked for the benefit of the nation, the peasant, the farmer. We've discussed the problems of all the farmers, peasants, workers, civil servants, tradesmen, but the villagers, farmers' problems, even though we've brought proposals of the law here. I'm calling our farmer, our peasant here, and I'm saying that I'm going to wear this hat symbolically on my head. Yes, I salute from here our peasant, our farmer, our tradesman. I say to everyone, let's make the Republican People's Party power on June 7th, make our village master of the nation. Turkey will rise if it is the master of the peasant nation, and the farmer will rise in Turkey. In that sense, I give everyone my regards, my regards. Allah says good-bye, good-bye, but don't forget the peasant, the farmer, the worker, the tradesman, the industrialist, all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to the members of lawmakers who have entered the system. The first word belongs to Mr. Corporate. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, the country was in total darkness, and we saw a collapsing energy system and a policy and a collapsing justice mechanism. We're sorry, they were killed by police operations of young men and prosecutors who committed an armed hostage act in an unsanctioned attempt to seek justice for Berkin Else at the Clumsy Courthouse. My condolences to the court and to the family of all of them. Who is responsible for these deaths? The view of those who tried not to shed blood might not have ended this way. It was not chosen when it was possible for them to be captured alive and the action to be concluded. The approach that defied the right to live is out of the President's mouth. Cops were celebrated, lawyers were targeted, as if there was a success. This is unacceptable.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0009par0069	You're not ashamed!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0010par0070	It's a little embarrassing, the funeral's going on.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0008par0071	The operation shouldn't stay in the dark like home, the facts must be illuminated. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0012par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask for God's mercy to our Republican Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. I ask patience for his family, for the judicial community. It's a disgusting provocation by using the name of a pure young man like Berkin. This is a provocation that political power will use for the laws of oppression. In that sense, I invite our people to common sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0014par0083	Thank you. First of all, I send my greetings to the Free Special, and to the youth groups who are now upstairs, watching us in the box, who have entered the first election in Manisa. Dear friends, I'll tell you about a neighborhood in Malatya. 65 per cent of the neighborhood live on welfare; 35 per cent work construction during the summer if they find work. The richest one is 10%, the pensioner, and they're trying to make a living on their pension. I'm talking about the Yamaç neighbourhood on the slopes of Malatya. Here's a lucky break in this neighborhood called TOKI. On average, they want 40,000 liras from residents who have no income. They want to take homes with gardens, double floors, and lock them up in 100 square feet of houses. Moreover, they charge money for it, and they call it the social state. Unfortunately, they vote for close to 90 per cent of the AKP in Yamac neighborhood, but they don't approve their votes. They want this victim taken care of as soon as possible. And I present to the attention of the High Council.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. I also condemn the attack on our Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. I pray for God's mercy, that his place may be in heaven. In our country, medical personnel work in a very selfless way. However, the most important issues of our health care personnel are about their rights and pension. Unfortunately, our retired medical staff, although several times have been discussed about it, have been unable to obtain their pension, and they are afraid to retire. In particular, the fact that the return capital premiums haven't fully reflected in retirement leads them to a major loss, and they also give up retirement. In the coming days, the bag may be within the law -- I don't know if it's possible -- but even if it doesn't -- is in the coming period -- I expect this to be at the top of the issues that will come after the next parliamentary election, and I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. New...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0018par0096	Mr. President, I offer my condolences to Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed by terrorists yesterday at the İstanbul Çağan Courthouse, and to his family, the justice community, and our nation. The terrorists who killed Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz will have to be found and punished by those who were with him, by whom they spoke. I also condemn the press, which publishes the ugly images of murderers and murderers, with violence and hatred.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0019par0099	Down with the villains!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. New. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0021par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish Allah's mercy to our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who died in the line of duty as a result of a traitorous attack on the Courthouse in Çağalan district of İstanbul. My condolences to your wife, children, relatives, members of the judiciary and our nation. How did the members of this terror organization, named the most modern palace in Europe, enter the Courthouse? This must be investigated and discovered. Who's behind it, what kind of provocation, what kind of action? After this great pain, our nation needs to know now. As the Republican People's Party, I say again that we condemn all kinds of terror from here. I ask God's mercy to our prosecutor, Kiraz. Again, my condolences and patience to his family.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0022par0107	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0023par0110	Mr. President, I condemn the traitorous attack at the falls. First of all, I'd like to express my condolences on the loss of our nation for the prosecutor who was martyred there. Turkey is a country that has suffered more than terror. There are people here who lived 80 years ago. It's well-known that terror creates a spiral of violence and builds an atmosphere of madness throughout the entire community. Later on, Turkey experienced this drama. What we see is that the act of terror is essentially covering up its hidden and hidden goals for the purpose it has always presented to society, and there is definitely a difference between the purpose it offers to society and the purpose it seeks to achieve. Here, too, the name of the late Berkin Elisha was used, but the attitude of the family, of the father, of the family of Berkin Else, is evident. The action is an assassination of social integrity by using it as an occasion, and, as Mr. Hamzacebi put it, the ties behind it are completely exposed, which ties, which relationships, which backgrounds form such a terrorist act, all of which would be helpful to clarify. People need sanity, solidarity, unity. Turkey is in a very troubled geography. It takes a match to break up a community, but it takes a lot of sweat, work and brains to build it. Remember, there is a limit to the mind, and there is no folly. Terror calls people to foolishness, that's what it's really about. I offer the attention of all segments, society, and respect for this matter.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, yesterday there was an extremely painful and grave incident at the Istanbul Caspian Courthouse. Unfortunately, in this case, which has been closely followed by the wishes of all of us to avoid killings, I draw the bottom of the AKP government -- a failed operation led to the death of Republican Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz and two activists. We, the People's Democratic Party, share our grief for these deaths with all our people and ask for patience for their families. We believe it is imperative that justice be quickly and effectively established in the constitutionally guaranteed regimes of law. If this necessity does not take place, we repeat again that democratic protests and legitimate opposition doors must be used and that a solution must be sought within the law. We would like to state that the process of democratic opposition, which so far has been sensitively followed by the shooting and not being punished by the shooters, has continued. We would like to point out yesterday that this incident, which needs a lot of explaining, cannot be closed down, and that the AKP government must quickly establish the necessary stance in the work on it. Mr. President, there are also grave incidents in the Middle East and Africa, as in Turkey. The ISIS terrorist group raided Mabuca (Mabuca) in Hama, Syria and massacred at least over 40 inhabitants of Alevi Syria, including two children. We condemn these massacres and ISIS supporters by cutting heads and burning them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President, a half-minute?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0026par0126	You tell me.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0025par0127	In the same way, the leader of Boko Haram, who committed violent crimes against humanity in Nigeria, declared his own caliphate and announced to the world that all women in the Gwoza region had been massacred. I'd like to point out that we also condemn the violence that is being practiced on women there right now, especially pregnant women and teenage girls. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0027par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in his post yesterday at İstanbul Çağalan Courthouse, begs God's mercy on our brother, his family and our nation. I condemn and condemn those who support terrorists and terrorists with their actions, with their words, with their tweets. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey is no longer the former Turkey. Turkey, where there are unsolved murders, martial law, and freedoms are restricted, is behind us. Those who act on terror will never succeed. I say the brotherhood and peace will prevail in the new Turkey. Again, my condolences to our brother's family, and again, my condolences to our nation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0028par0137	Thank you, Mr. Sun. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask for the mercy of our martyr Prosecutor Selim Kiraz, and my condolences to his family and to our nation. I want all the dark events behind him brought to light, and I don't think he should be left in drag. I say again that we will not allow the name of Berkin to be defiled. Two honor suicides, one death; days, months of solitary confinement; families, parents' spiritual torture, tears were acquitted yesterday, but we want to see how these friends, those from their jobs, those from their jobs, those who can't jump from their families, their children's schools, their economic challenges will be compensated by this government. Those who shed crocodile tears behind them, they were struck by the sand. I call again these friends to be given back all their rights. I think the government and Parliament should be more aggressive about it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0030par0143	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Erdinç...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0031par0146	Mr. President, I hope to have the mercy of my Lord of Kiraz, our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed yesterday, to have patience with his family and loved ones. We want to remember our martyr well. Those who published that picture of our martyr in their newspaper that we don't want to remember, that's how they showed a woman her husband, her father, her mother and father, her son, and that's what I'm saying. I curse the terrorists who killed our prosecutor, those who supported those killers, those who tried to legitimize them, and from my glorious Lord, I refer them to the ruin of the Lord.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0030par0149	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0032par0152	Yesterday, Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz was killed in the vile act of a terrorist organization at the Çağalan Courthouse. I ask the great Creator to have mercy on our prosecutor. The message of this action is the organisation's desire to demonstrate power by raiding a court building, which is supposedly well protected, and by filling the majority of society with hatred and hatred over the death of Berkin Jon. It is a disgrace to make politics, bloodsuckers, acts of terror, support the acts of terror, give legitimacy to the actions of terrorists, and to make it a tool to deepen the diversity of sects. Since yesterday, we regret to see their professions show that instead of condemning terrorism and terrorists, some of them are journalists, televisionmen, artists, politicians, and show that they don't want to vomit on the state. Don't forget, terror is like a boomerang. We must not lose sight of the possibility that the DHKP-C (DHKP) has been working with the PKK for a long time, and that PKK will be able to make some of its actions possible for the DHKP-C. Since then, there has been a brotherhood similar to the brotherhood of the rings between the PKK and the Marxist left. Terrorist organizations are like two peas in a pod. Those who do not condemn this act are inhumane. I wish God's mercy to our martyr prosecutor again, our nation's head.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0033par0157	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Coshkun...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0034par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, Mehmet Selim Kiraz, our fallen prosecutor, remember with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. I condemn the terrorist organization that committed this foul murder and those who supported them with violence and hatred. Those who want to disturb the peace and stability of our country and bring this country to chaos and the dark times of old, let them know that this nation will not give them this opportunity. I strongly condemn the dead terrorists and those who put our fallen prosecutor in the same position. Again, I wish God's mercy to our prosecutor, my condolences to his family.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0035par0164	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun. Mr. Tayyar...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0036par0167	Mr. President, thank you very much. I strongly condemn yesterday's terrorist act at the Falls Courthouse, as do my friends. I ask God's mercy to our brother, the martyr, the prosecutor who lost his life, Mehmet Selim Kiraz. I would like to hereby condemn the so-called journalists who failed to give a good test in the process, who, under the guise of journalism, have made the act of terrorism innocent and have sanctified terrorists. In addition, I'd like to report that I have also condemned the daily Hurriyet, Yanit, Yuda, Yuda, Today (now) Zaman, Speaker, Middle East, and Country, which publishes that image of our martyr, our prosecutor, from the front page, from the front page, from the front page today. Again, I ask for God's mercy on our martyr.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0037par0172	Thank you, Mr. Tayyar. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0038par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. To our colleague who was a martyr at the Istanbul courthouse yesterday, to my friend, the republic's attorney, I ask God's mercy, to his family, to his relatives, to the entire judicial community. This is an act of terror, we condemn it, but the operation is a failure. I've been in touch with my friends from the D.A.'s office at the Falls Courthouse all morning. According to my friends, after about eight or ten minutes after the shots came from the inside, the door and the wall were blown open and an operation was carried out. This is a complete failure, a complete failure. There, in fact, without the sound of a gunshot, the air conditioning system or other methods of sedation, drug gas, could have been neutralized by these terrorists, and our friend, the D.A., could have survived. There's a complete incompetence here, and someone's got to take the fall for it. I mean, yes, we have a dead martyr, but this incompetence must be claimed by the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0039par0179	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0040par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. We have all been deeply shocked to hear that our Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz was killed in the wake of a traitorous and despicable attack. I condemn terror organizations and terrorists, whose sole purpose is to disturb our nation, with violence and hatred. I'd like to point out that describing the hostage situation and the attack as an action, and the terrorists as an activist, it would be to serve the terrorists' purpose in a way that violates the media ethics of the images served by terrorists. I offer God's mercy to our martyr prosecutor, and my condolences to his family, to our judicial community, and to our nation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0041par0185	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0042par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed yesterday in the face of a vicious attack, to his family, and to our nation and the head of our justice community. Members of parliament, the following statements will also be noted if they are unifying, complementary, and calming, we will feel that our national pain has eased, as well as the aims to achieve terrorism. Even though this is the case, the statements and sharing of the meanings that would legitimize terrorism by various factions, unfortunately, have been seen by our nation as an example. Those who are whole and unable to experience the pain and sorrow of the people, the spirit of unity and unity, will never be erased from the unclean pages of history. Again, I say that when our nation falls into this sense of responsibility, it will give its answer, as always, within the frame of dignity and reason. Again, I offer God's mercy to our martyr, and my condolences to his grieving family.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0043par0192	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0044par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Those who want to stop the march of Turkey, where there is no legitimate basis for violence as a means of search for rights or means of intermediary today, should know that this march will never be halted by the will of peace, freedom and brotherhood. As I point out the fact that the expectation of political humidity from terror and violence will no longer be tolerated in this day and age, our late Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz wishes his mercy, and I condemn the attack as I express my condolences to his grieving family and the judicial community.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0043par0197	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Güyük...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0045par0200	Mr. President, I ask for God's mercy to our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. I also condemn those who justify terrorism one way or another, and I say, shame on you. Our nation is watching with an example that people who didn't call the coupger yesterday couldn't call the terrorist a terrorist today. Unfortunately, again, our nation is watching today as a lesson to those who sought protection from a number of responsibilities in order to lead the country into chaos. We curse them, too.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0043par0202	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. Mr. Akgun...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0046par0205	Mr. President, thank you. I ask God's mercy on our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed by the terrorist organization in charge of his post yesterday. My condolences to the head of the holy nation, family, and justice community. Mr. President, we have the honor and honor of serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where national will has been represented since 3 November 2002. Now that we are at the end of the 24th term, I humbly ask all our friends to give me the blessing and respect of the Grand Assembly, as it is under the rule of our party that I cannot be a candidate again.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0047par0209	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0048par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, ask for the mercy of my Lord Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who died in a terrorist act yesterday at the Çağalan Courthouse, and for his family's condolences and patience. Yesterday, we saw that I regret and condemn those who are involved in the persecution of other people and society in Turkey by taking democratic actions and democratic rights as a screen to themselves, resorting to violence, resorting to acts of terror. In democratic actions, everyone must exercise the right to democratic action, of course, but I condemn those who are capable of violence. And in today's newspapers, unfortunately, the pictures that are no different from the violence of ISIS...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0049par0217	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Boiler...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0050par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. I curse terror and terrorists. I offer my condolences to our Republican Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in the traitor attack, and to his family, to our beloved nation, to the justice community. I'd like to point out that I strongly condemn the irresponsible media who called the terrorist who was holding a gun to the head, who published this image in their newspapers and oiled the bread of terror. And I say the day is the day to be united against terror, shoulder to shoulder. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0051par0226	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0052par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, because of the fact that yesterday's power outage was involved, in an environment where terrorists entered and no record of them were taken, I strongly condemn the traitorous attack on our fallen Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, on behalf of the National Party of Action. But it's not enough to curse terrorists and terror, you need to get information about this beforehand. Also, the fact that our martyr was shot by whom, without being subjected to any autopsy, suggests some suspicion that he was covered with a number of different powders in the room in which he was found. Surely it is the government's first-degree debt to investigate to the end. On this occasion, my condolences to the Turkish nation, especially his family. I ask for God's mercy. Again, my condolences to your loved ones, your relatives, and the legal community. I want to make it very clear that if you take the necessary measures to prevent such events from ever happening again, if you consider an environment where everyone is controlled even as you enter the airport, the entrances to the courthouse must be controlled in exactly the same way, regardless of who they are. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0053par0234	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Hamzacebi, you're back in the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0054par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the Constitutional Court's decision to violate the rights, the court has ruled that the defendant be acquitted in a full interest in the court's retrial. In fact, since the beginning of the trial, we have said that this case was carried out with false evidence, that this case is an unjust, unlawful case. Of course, we're happy that all the defendants have been acquitted, but it's a sad pleasure because the lives of the highly valued commanders of the Turkish Armed Forces who were tried in that case have been stolen, their future blackened, they've fallen into great despair, they've either retired, they've been forced to retire, they're in such pain. The Prime Minister of Time, the current President, Mr. Erdogan, has said that we have been deceived. Now, what needs to be done then, after the court's acquittal, is to establish a law to restore their dignity to our commanders. You have to do that. It's not enough to say "I'm sorry," it's the law. No apology will bring back the lives of our commanders, the suffering they suffered, the lives of those who committed suicide, the suffering of their families, but it must be done, a democratic state must do it. The Republican People's Party's proposed law on the issue was rejected last Tuesday by the Justice and Development Party Group's votes. Before the Turkish Grand National Assembly closes, I propose to legislate the Republican People's Party's extradition proposal to the entire General Kurula, especially the ruling party group. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0055par0245	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. And finally, Mr. Chiray...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0056par0248	Mr. President, it is a clue that the Shadow Prime Minister intends to bill the Republican People's Party leader for a terrorist incident that has developed over the painful memory of Berkin Else, and to do so by defending the domestic security law that will turn Turkey into an absolute police state. I'm presenting this to the people who are going to investigate.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0055par0249	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. We're going on the agenda. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the Grand National Assembly Tobacco production, which bridges agricultural production and industrial production, is the area where women's employment is concentrated, and is essentially an example of agricultural production based on women's labor. Women are the main producer power in almost all stages of demanding and long tobacco production, as well as an essential component of employment in industrial tobacco processing. We offer and offer the necessary requirement for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to investigate the negative effects of agricultural production on women and to take precautions. [[Şırnak]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Agricultural production in Turkey is of great importance in the context of women's employment: on the one hand, women's primary employment has been in the last few years; and secondly, agricultural production is a concentrated process of women's labor. Tobacco production, which bridges agricultural production and industrial production, is the area where women's employment is concentrated, and is essentially an example of agricultural production based on women's labor. Women are the main producer power in almost all stages of demanding and long tobacco production, as well as an essential component of employment in industrial tobacco processing. During the 2000s, however, this important area of women's employment began to shrink as a run for absorption of agricultural production. The main reason for the decline in women's employment participation in Turkey over the past decade has been the decline of agricultural employment. The tobacco industry is one of the best examples of this process. The Tobacco Law, which was adopted in 2002, aimed at privatising the tobacco sector, increasing its acquisitions of support for tobacco, and allowing the sale of TEKEL's assets, greatly reduced tobacco planting in Turkey. After the total privatisation of TEKEL, tobacco production has reached its end. As tobacco production decreases, women's unemployment grows, immigration to major cities is the only way. The comparison of women's employment to men's employment in Turkey clearly reveals the inequality of access to social resources between men and women. Men's employment participation is 62.7 per cent, while women's employment participation is 22 per cent. In the developed Western countries, more than half of women's population are employed, and in Turkey, the dark picture of women's employment becomes clearer. Only 22 out of 100 women in Turkey participate in employment. Women's employment turnout has been down by 12 points since the 1990s. In 1990, 34 out of 100 women joined employment, while 27 of them joined employment in 2004. One of the main factors that determines the orientation of women's employment in Turkey is agricultural production. Agriculture in Turkey is the busiest area of women's employment. Agricultural production, which maintained its weight in the economy by the 2000s, was one of the main labour activities of women, as agricultural production itself became densely female labored. Women work socially unsecuredly as a free family worker in agricultural production, usually in the form of small production. The main trend in women's employment, which has been the dominant trend recently, is the decline of rural employment, depending on the transformation in agriculture. The removal of subsidies in agriculture, the end of support for the farmer, direct or indirect support for the farmer, has led producers in Turkey's agriculture and especially small businesses based on family labour to a rapid meltdown process. As agricultural production declines, masses that have no jobs in rural areas and are unable to cope with increasing poverty quickly migrate to cities. Emigration from the country to the city is a complex process that creates a series of negative consequences for housing from employment. The migration from the country to the city leads to a small decline in participation in the labor force for men, resulting in the fact that almost all women remain out of employment. In the population that has to emigrate to the city, young men can find work easier than women. In most cases, women are either left unemployed or forced to work under negative circumstances. It is useful to establish a research commission to investigate and take precautions on the negative effects of agricultural production on women's employment. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The fundamental demands of the Alevi society, the act of worship, the removal of mandatory religious lessons, the extradition of the Alevi assets, the abolishing of the Diyanet Business Presidency, which violates the neutral state principle of existence, the dissolution of the policy of building mosques to the Alevi villages, the full removal of the religious dynasty of the population wallets; the removal of the textbooks, dictionaries, encyclopedias, encyclopedias, and the removal of the supporters of the books proposed by the Ministry of National Education, and the restoration of certain regulations and initiatives in other matters, the duty of the state and government, and the responsibility of taking responsibility of the responsibility of the religious dynasty of their population wallets, and the resolving of their religious households, and the various signs of their houses and the threat to be made to be made to be painted in various forms and the interiors of the interiors of the Alections and the interiors of the Alembrations, and the building of the houses of the interiors, and the Ottomanics; The marking of the houses of Alevi in İstanbul Kartal and Gaziantep; the attempt of the married family to be lynched on Friday (July 26, 2012) for Ramazan at the Bolık district of Doğanşehir district of Malatya province, on Friday (July 26, 2012) after a press release of the village's families, the threat to their married family, the oppression, isolation, insufferability and social pressure, and the continuation of the public pressure of Ankara province's Battalgazi Elementary School was still under way; and the people who signed the signature of the village signed against the imam-hali on 6/9/2012. The events have raised concerns that the safety of the Alevi citizens living in Turkey has been increasingly eliminated. On the other hand, it is not a coincidence that these events coincided with a period when the prime minister and ministers made derogatory, condescending and insulting statements targeting Alevis in Turkey during election campaigns and various meetings. Official statements in the investigations of these events since February 2012 that writing or markings on house and school walls are child's work, not to exaggerate, raise public concerns and concerns, particularly the Alevi community. No steps have been taken to relieve their anxiety. Aside from the enlightenment of these events and the responsibility of state and its concerned institutions, and the monitoring of a policy that will convince public opinion, the fact that "the incidents were carried out by children and ideologically non-profits" has even increased the commitment of the situation. In fact, the clear meaning of this is that systematic discrimination against Alevis in Turkey is even embedded in children's memories. In normal circumstances, children are described as the representative of innocence and purity, the most fragile ring of social life, the most deserving of protection and compassion and hope for the future. But in our country, children's "strength" and "snatcher monster" and "crime machine" and "criminal nightmare" and "stone-throwing children" and "child's work" have been described or branded, making innocence a nightmare. The priority task and responsibility of state and relevant institutions is the enlightenment of an event that occurred and the monitoring of a policy that will convince the public. Rather, pointing out children as criminals is no more than forcing them to act like adults. It is concluded that tomorrow's Alevis will have no life safety in Turkey, if it is done by children, as it is alleged to have written insults and threats against Alevi and the walls of the school, marking the Aleki houses, drawing their walls. Because tomorrow's executives, social actors and public officials are today's children. Therefore, under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, I demand that Parliament be opened. 23/10/2012 [[Tunceli]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 10) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Manisa]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[Malatya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The students that our teachers have raised today will form the building blocks of modern, democratic and independent Turkey. The problems of our teachers who raised our future are a barrier to making their profession better. The difficulties with teachers' appointment of apology groups, the division of families, the lack of staff necessary for teachers, and the examination of employment and the hard working conditions of contracted teachers without guarantees; the number of teachers who have graduated from education schools, the number of teachers short of teachers and the number of teachers appointed teachers; and the opening of a parliamentary examination of the Constitutional Court, in order to investigate the imbalance among the number of teachers and to determine the necessary policies. With all due respect. 28/11/2012 1) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Mughle]] 5) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tunceli]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 18) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 26) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Malatya]] As our teachers shape the future of our country, the building blocks of education are doing with great sacrifice their responsibility, despite any difficulty, without losing faith. The students that our teachers have raised today will form the building blocks of modern, democratic and independent Turkey. Before generations are raised well, the collection and experience of the past cannot be transferred into the future. Our teachers place the keystone for our country to survive. In order for our teachers to succeed in raising new generations of bridges, their problems need to be resolved immediately. The problems of our teachers who raised our future are a barrier to making their careers better. The difficulties with the appointment of the apology group, the breakup of the families, the absence of sufficient staff for teachers, the work of contract teachers and the hard working conditions of the future without guarantees, clearly show the necessity for restructuring in the national education. The number of teachers who have graduated from education schools has been known to be an imbalance between the number of teachers and the number of teachers who have been appointed. However, in order to address this imbalance, there has still been no rational construction process in the national education process, and no necessary policies have been produced. The difficulties with teachers' appointment of apology groups are needed in order to investigate the disparity of families, the lack of sufficient staff for teachers, and the study of employment and the hard working conditions of contract teachers without guarantees; the number of teachers who have graduated from education schools, the number of teacher deficits and the number of teachers appointed teachers; and a parliamentary study is needed in order to determine the necessary policies. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday 01/04/2015 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. (11/55) The main agenda of the Gensoru Prescription (9/13) is to be held in a joint session of the General Assembly 01/04/2015 Wednesday (to see if the agenda will be placed in the 1st placement of "Works on Special Age" and whether or not it will be brought to the agenda and whether the General Assembly will be opened on Wednesday (January 01/04/2015) and the General Assembly Council of Interior Minister Efkan Ala (9/13) is recommended to be held on Wednesday 01/04/15/15 (Today). I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, according to the decision, we move on to the special agenda's part of operations. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group in the 1st place of this part, we are starting talks on whether Deputy Group Deputy Chair Idris Bauken will be brought up on behalf of the group's Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan (11/55) fundamentally on the agenda of the Gensoru directive. Government? He's in position. I do not re-read the motion because it has been printed and distributed before and has been read in the 84th Union of the General Assembly, dated 26/3/2015. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I read the names of the following members: Bingl MP Idris Baluken as the leader of the Council; Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the People's Party Group, Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; İzmir MP İncınur Denizli on behalf of the government. I will now make the first commitment to the petitioner, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. It's been ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0057par0449	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As a result of poor management of the economy, I have been promised a motion by Mr. Vice Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who is in charge of general co-ordination in economic matters. Of course, we're going to express our thoughts on this, but first I'd like to express here a review of the discussion technique of this gene. In fact, for the past two months, we've come across a practice that almost all of our criticisms have been justified in the way the House works. When we gave this gene, we were particularly in a dialogue with the AK PARTI deputy presidents regarding the meeting day of this geneor, and we specifically requested that the timing be brought to the General Assembly because the majority of our group is at events that will be held together with our people during the week of Nevroz. The day before this gene was brought to the General Assembly, we called again the members of the EC PARTI group, and said that our friends here in parliament would not be in parliament a day after some mandatory talks as part of the resolving process, and therefore that the meeting of this geneor should be shared with us. Despite all of our statements, unfortunately, on a day in which we were in the field during our work and ▪Nevroz, the gene was brought to the General Assembly's agenda, and we had to withdraw the genotype because there was such a situation. Of course, in those days, the press reflected it in a different way, as if the People's Democratic Party had withdrawn the geneor for Mr. Ali Babacan. We've already made a statement to the press, but we're concerned that it should be made public today. Exactly, because the political ethics in the House, the rules of political courtesy were ignored, and the majority of our group were not here, we withdrew the gene, and as a result, we brought that question back to the General Assembly's agenda. Because because of this -- we gave this gene -- because of a rapid increase in dollars, outside interference with the Central Bank, and because the current political instability triggered an economic instability that could lead to an economic crisis. In this process, none of these parameters have improved. If there had been a improvement, then we could have used a different initiative about the withdrawal of the genome, but while the same instability, the same fluctuations continue, while the political conjunctive triggers economic instability, of course, as the Democratic Party of Peoples, we thought it would be right to bring the genera back to the General Assembly's agenda. Again, we would like to remind you that the EC PARTY should not hesitate, that the government should not hesitate, and that if there are some things going wrong in the country, the ministers of interest should come to the parliament and address the Assembly in accordance with the principle of accountability. The current economic data will already be detailed in a speech on economic instability on behalf of our group. However, I would especially like to share my views on the extent where political instability comes from, especially because the work is directly related. As you know, after Mr. President's statement that interfered with the Central Bank, we faced a rapid fluctuation of dollars and a number of practices that reached almost historical records during the day. After Mr. President's intervention, unfortunately, the government has entered into a major silence on this issue, and has not been able to take a stand. We did not witness that any minister or minister in the cabinet had said anything or established any attitude regarding the intervention of a president who had no authority to do so. In fact, let alone develop a political attitude about it, on the contrary, there have been allegations that the President would intervene, and the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy responsible for this intervention began to report. Again, reports of the president of the Central Bank being removed from office or resigned in the same way have been circulated, and we have not found a single government statement about all of this, which would satisfy the public opinion of the Prime Minister. So this current instability, as I said in the dollar -- brought some fluctuations that passed through the 2.60s, and there was a very serious situation about the massive loss of companies or environments that were in debt over the dollar. In fact, the President's intervention wasn't just about the economy, it wasn't just about the Central Bank. In those days -- and he is still continuing -- he goes around the rally and declares publicly that he wants 400 MPs and that he wants to vote for the EC PARTY. With all the speeches and statements he's made on this subject, there's been a serious debate about his own neutrality, and I didn't mention the name of the party by mocking all of our minds, our people's intelligence. He made some statements worse than his guilt in the form of apology. Again, this President, who should be neutral, has publicly shared with all of us who will be a member of the EC PARTI lists. We're all aware of the state of the bureaucrats who applied for the MP nomination and were renegotiated from the President's cause, because of his opposition. Again, as all of this was not enough, the EC revealed that he had read the election declarations that the PARTI had prepared, and that his views on how the presidential system should be written in the election declaration were still to be neutral in the same way. His explanations of the solution process, unfortunately, were on a scale that would contradict all of the government's actions or all of its statements, and the breaking storm brought tremendous damage to both the process of solutions, political stability, and economic stability. Now, we've heard nothing from the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of co-ordination of the government and perhaps the most important ministers of all these issues. Because Mr. Ali Babacan has repeatedly said that political stability in a country is directly related to economic stability, that democratisation and the improvement of economic indicators are directly related. Now, if there's such political instability, if there's interference with the economic field of a president who's lost his neutrality, if the indicators are getting worse, well, as Mr. Secretary in charge of this matter, you should have shown a clear attitude by now. Unfortunately, as I said, a successful crisis has not been ruled. We say that both political stability and economic stability have worsened, and the current situation with the dollar dry remains uncertain, and thus concerns about the economic crisis and political crises are increasing in Turkey. So I say again that we're going to support this in our speech on behalf of the group regarding their motives, and we're looking for support from the entire Parliament on this matter. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0058par0466	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0059par0469	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Now, of course, before I begin my words, I thank Mr. Babacan. First of all, I've done it upstairs. The first reason I thank you is because, at the end of his third term, he began to confess some of the truths we've been telling for years -- as slightly as loud as possible -- so that he didn't get the brush. For him, a lot of friends smile, but I'm right, because in the cabinet, when one or two people say something, they get the brush, including the Prime Minister, so it's real. Now, we've just had a last meeting at the Commission, we've been made lawful with our friends, but we've said all we have to say. I don't want Mr. Secretary to be offended, but on one hand, it's a compliment, but that's the way it is. Let's just say we said what you couldn't tell us. Now, Mr. Babacan says we have to go into industry, not with construction and the mall. But we've always said, not like this, let's take structural precautions, guys. Two: let's take structural measures. He even spoke at the meeting again after he had sweetened it. I'll mention it in a minute, but I'll tell you why I said thank you. And my third thank you, despite all the criticism, is that he always avoids the question-answer part without saying too much. And congratulations on your skill in this matter. He can leave without answering any very serious questions, and somehow he'll tell you what he knows. Of course, the reason I'm thanking you is because... why you said those things so slowly and didn't answer so slowly, and we ourselves understand Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's exit. In this environment, what is more than that to which Mr. Simsek tells us what Mr. Babacan is saying, and we, when we see it, are not waiting. We need to do this first. But because it's at the end of the third term, we call it good morning, Mr. Minister, so if we'd done this earlier, we'd be taking out a lot of laws, structural measures. And since it's something we keep saying, I have to say it over and over again. So, we said up there, just like you said, not with the construction lobby, not with the mall. Our friends brought it back at the last minute. Fortunately, down there, when it got too tight, our friends here pulled some stuff. We had regulations that encouraged construction again, that extended its time, that tried to revive them. We don't have a problem with construction. But if you make the economy based solely on the investments of the construction industry, and you provide it with a stockpile of housing... We kept warning that there might be a Turkishmortgage case. Because the banks mortgaged them all. What happens tomorrow when he can't pay back? They'll all be hosts. We had some banks once, Mr. Babacan knows, when we distribute mortgages around, when we can't pay back, we have banks that own a lot of tourism companies, like they own hotels, they run hotels; they're supposed to be bankers. But since they don't make careful credit assessments of loans, there are a lot of hotel businesses among the actives, and I'm giving you an example. Now, in a situation like this, what happens when all these banks don't return their mortgages? The citizen will have delivered the dwelling in his possession to less value, and the bank will write it down, if the market is full that day, at a lower price, he will either have to sell it or wait for it. Thus, we have warned you very much about these matters. Now, the other thing we want to thank you for is one of our most mild, mild-mannered ministers, Mr. Babacan. Now I'm curious, Mr. President, because of what he said, we have a chance to ask you first-hand here. He spoke to Mr. Prime Minister about Mr. Babacan. I mean, I myself, as opposition MP, have heard satire, and I'm sorry that those words were said to the president of the Central Bank, especially as a former Central Bank banker. So there have been charges of treason. Then he says he didn't try. Yes, keeping the interest high is treason. What does that mean? Who is in charge of the high hold? I'm curious. In the budget three years ago, I showed you here in an A3 piece of paper, whether or not the interest lobby is inside or outside? It hasn't started yet -- you know that the President said that -- you were here in the budget talk. One of the newspapers still on the sidelines accused both you and Mr. Prime Minister of putting Mr. Lightning in -- there's also an interest lobby -- to create interest rates. Whenever he was stuck, Mr. Erdogan always tried to blame someone. But that's not my problem. How come he meets with those he calls a traitor and says to you before him: "Get yourself together, it won't happen." And he warns you, they didn't listen, they didn't drop the interest. He sends another message when he goes abroad and goes away, and then, we come, sir, we've made it sweet. The president of the Central Bank and Mr. Babacan are gone. I wonder, did you have dessert and sweet talk? How'd you settle it? After all that talk, I'm really curious to know how a person can get sweet with just one briefing after talking so hard. So, frankly, given the summation you gave us, our president of the Central Bank also presented, in fact, politely, Mr. President, it's the presentation of our friends. I'm sorry, you guys are getting angry, but there's been a lot of international developments. The increase in these courses is that international interest rates are here, we have an external trade deficit, we need hot money. And while we're in need of hot money, we can't reduce these interest rates without inflation, I'm sorry. What does the President say? He gets up, he says, that's my theory. They say inflation is counterproductive of interest. And I say, if you don't lower the interest, it's not going to happen. It's still going on with the theory. Now, fellas, how are we gonna settle this after all this talk? Now, if he's a traitor, Mr. President, before he talks -- they're dealing with the Federal Reserve interest -- the indicator interest was around 6.5, if I remember correctly, it went up to eight hundred and twenty-five. Well, then who caused it? And I'm like, "Well, then, who's the one who's serving these loan sharks?" Justice and Development Party governments. Mr. President, when he was Prime Minister, what did he say about travel events, if you remember, when he was arguing? He's mad at all of them. Yesterday he told us that he was five times richer in our time and that those who came to us came to us today. Look, this is Mr. Erdoğan's sentence. That's what he said to the people he was angry with on the trip called the fiscal lobby. They're five times richer. In whose time? During the Justice and Development Party administrations. If you want... often, they tell us, you know, rates all the time; here's what happened, the interest went down here, up here, up, up, up, up. On average, more than 50 billion per year -- 48, 50, 53, 56, going like this -- from 2003 to the end of 2014, we paid a total of $612 billion interest interest interest rates, friends. So now when you take the debt and you raise it from 129 billion to over 400 billion, you pay interest. 100 billion in debt, 400 billion in debt, that's the interest you're paying the interest lobby in total. It doesn't solve our problem that the amount has grown and the rate is falling. That's what we're paying interest, about 50 billion per year, 2 minus 3 plus 5 over interest. It's a billion, quadrillion with old money. Now, so, what's going on with this? Who did we pay these interest to? So Mr. Erdogan wasn't the Prime Minister of these governments? Isn't that what he's dealing with as president right now? He's still up there giving out speeches. Well, of course, we don't call him anything either, because, dear friends, I've already told you that if your guide is jelly, your nose won't survive the crisis. With the Minister of Economy here, when there are economic bureaucrats, when there are Finance Minister, when there are four or five ministries of economic co-ordination, when there are four or five ministries of your individual economy, you decide what two consultants say, and you accuse everyone of treason, and the economy doesn't improve. Well, you yourself will be the head of this instability. The President himself is our greatest political risk right now, and I'm telling you. Economically, political risks are important. Yes, it can be unjust ratings, it has happened now, it has happened in the past, but the important thing is that they're making political evaluations. It doesn't mean that they're making political evaluations. If there's something going on between the government and the Council of Ministers, if there's a problem with the bank, if there's a problem with the minister, you can solve it by taking briefings. A president can't get up and do something like this through the media. I told him why, and Mr. Secretary knows, and like I said, that's why I'm thanking you, not all of them. We said, "Frenchers," so you said, you made it conceptual; then he became political, laughing, Erdoganians. And then he got up, and he started banging some of the press, and he started banging the brakemen, as Mr. Arinc said. Yeah, what kind of administration is that? What kind of an economy is that? We don't agree on the problem yet, so when you say we don't get along, you don't get along, I say it as management. What's wrong with the middle, we don't get along with it. There's an institution about co-ordination of the economy administration, there's a Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. President declares him a traitor. How are we going to settle this now? I mean, is this gonna be about getting together one day and then settling things down? Where will these words remain? It's here in history. Now, behind him, Mr. Babacan is singing in a meeting. So, we're saying, what's the score for all this? In three months, the rate damage has reached 80 billion. The private sector, companies, a lot of them, are now dependent on imports -- the majority of Turkey's economy is dependent on imports -- and the private sector is writing about the loss of currency due to its natural imports. So the weird thing is that before, we had the advantage, we had the euro, and when the value in the euro goes backwards, we're losing the parite. We're just saying that because we weren't very economically affected because our purchases were different, the pitch was low, the euro was high, and now we're hurting again. So, how do we do it in this controversial setting? Mr. Cavalen was the defender of the gas guys who constantly banged the brakemen, and now he's gone. Mr. Zeybekci, even he had to confess that the exit of Mr. President may have been effective in the courses. Now, you're messing with this place, the rates are going up, the interest's going up. Well, then, if everyone turns to you and tells you that there's going to be a president of the Republic of Turkey? So when we say where it's going, we have to sit down and weigh it, especially when it comes to those in charge. It's not the economy of power, it's an economic structure that concerns all our citizens, all our segments. We're all in that ship, and when they start taking water, sir, they did it wrong, it happened. We can't look at them because they're going to pile up and fall on our citizens' narrow income. That's where the problem comes in. Now, I looked again, and then I saw what Mr. Babacan said. At the Uludağ Economic Summit, he talks about the country's economy through trilateral hair. One: finance policies. I'm asking, there was a financial rule here last semester, and it just disappeared. It was an app that IMF and I talked to the World Bank about what was being done with all NGOs and international organizations, but it didn't. Speaking of financial rules, let me tell you something else. Mr. Prime Minister announced the package of transparency, Mr. President intervened in it as well. And not just for economic reasons. Look, I don't know what time it is, brother, but before the election, why would it make sense? He says we can't find men to run for mayor. Either it's in the press, not behind the scenes. What does that mean? If our men give a statement of property, there may be unprovoked enrichment. What kind of confession is that? The least you can do is call this in and talk to him or the press won't have any of this. These are embarrassing things. I mean, that would put all our friends under suspicion. Not all of their wealth has become so rich; of course there has been, and there has been no cause, and there has been a trade. But if you call it "the Sheriff's package," then you publicly accuse the presidents of your own party. But we don't grieve any more, Mr. Erdogan is blind to the ministers after 17-25 December, the Deputy Prime Minister, the President of the Central Bank, and the mayors of the district. That's not gonna happen. The second of the third leg, in the words of Mr. Babacan, says: "Money policies and the Central Bank." Is there any left? The Central Bank has no corporate personality, no independence, no betrayal, it's all over. And then we move on as if nothing had happened. I don't understand this. There's got to be something wrong with one of the sides. We'll get a briefing again. He says, Mr. President. I honestly don't understand, if it's getting better with a briefing, which we've already looked at, I just told you. By God, it's true what we say. Our friends are innocently convinced by the indicators. You're looking at the third: structural reforms. So we say good morning. Look, we've talked here many times. Minister, we have a Tenth Development Plan. It left two years ago. And yet, you're still taking his priority transformation programs and planning an action on us, 1, 2, 3. I said so many times, the minister is gone, and his plan remains. Five years without touching any of it, and the strategy plan is gone. Well, this looks just like it. Yeah, when are you gonna do it? Make one, make two! 1,200, 1,400 measures, Mr. Secretary? Let's at least see if we can do 50 things from the top. I showed you, if you want it here, some of your friends are looking at me like they're asking questions. One of the most important items was the SMES system that was involved in the current explanation. I looked at it, 2013-2015 -- just so I don't have to deal with it now, I'll give you the summary -- it's going to be done, it's going to be implemented, it's going to be revised. So, 2015's over, so when are we going to put it into practice? There's nothing there. So, now, there's a lot to say here, Mr. Minister, but give up this plan and get on with it. There's already a plan, and we didn't have time to implement it while we were constantly doing the transformation program, the plans. What are we doing here? We have spent three months and four months of the Assembly here, pushing the opposition to the majority decision, discussing the random, unnecessary, controversial, disputed bag laws, negotiations with a political separatist organisation, the political bill and proposals under the process of resolving them. What if we had at least one tenth of these structural measures? But, now, as I said, this is a farewell speech, and the Minister's third term, unfortunately, we don't expect you to do that anymore. Hopefully, when God supports our nation on June 7th, in the new era, five separate ministries in the power of the National Movement Party, not one of whom is a gasser, one of whom is a braker; a powerful Ministry of Economy will take first into account the fundamental structural issues within a structure where all institutions are gathered; our nation, hopefully, will give us the authority to solve these problems; to support industry, manufacturing industry, production industry, priority; to support high-tech sectors; to care for high-end sectors; to promote, innovation, innovation, and a government that supports RD. I've tried to share these with you in an economic sense of the twelve-year period of republican advertising. We, as an MHP, will implement an economic programme that will reduce the dependency of exports and production of our country in a business-friendly production economy that supports production, employment, and investment and stability in an understanding that supports sectoral and narrow sector incentives, supported by structural measures, and these primary sectors that we're talking about, will ensure the confidence of investors from abroad, foreign capital, and our investors within the country. Hopefully, we'll solve our people's problems with social support projects, in a way that leads to production, in a sense of innovation, initiative, and solve the problems of our country, and embrace all the social communities that have been so far victimised. I'm already thanking all of you, paying my respects. Unfortunately, at the end of this period, we came across something like this. We'll say the Minister should resign, but his term is ending, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0060par0500	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Bostanci, do you have an explanation?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0502	Yes, I have an explanation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0060par0503	Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0506	Mr. President, thank you. In its valuable speaker speech, the Prime Minister made a comment on behalf of the EC PARTI that in the process in which he publicly shared a study of transparency package on behalf of the government, he said that if this package comes out, we will find no one to make it the mayor of the province and the district.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0508	I didn't comment, I relayed direct information.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0509	He made a comment, saying, "Yes, there's been a story like this in a newspaper, and there's a lot of news in the papers. We didn't report the news in the newspapers, we made a statement. If we start presenting it in the form of a statement, everyone here will have a lot to say about each other. Thus, it would not be the right assessment to present newspaper news as a source of some kind of truth, as if it were first-hand information, as if it were comparable objective information, and by that information, to condemn people. I've been promised this. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0511	Well, tell me about the transparency package, Mr. Bostanci. He didn't?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0063par0512	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0513	The future will come.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0514	Where will he come? Good morning!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0515	I guess so. Who's the bringer?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0516	That's what I'm saying, we'll bring him in.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0517	Who's the bringer?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0518	We'll bring him in, you pull him back.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0519	He'll be here, don't worry.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0520	Is that okay here?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0061par0521	After June 7th.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0522	You didn't withdraw it?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0064par0523	What newspaper is it in, a paper in a twat?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0062par0524	No, I'll show you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0065par0525	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0066par0526	Mr. President said that the package of transparency was in a newspaper. Yeah, it was in the Yanya newspaper, but it's never been rebutted, so I'd like to mention that in particular.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0065par0527	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0067par0528	Secondly, the transparency package has been withdrawn, Mr. President. I mean, he's saying it, Mr. Bostanci, but he's not saying it. Has the transparency package been withdrawn or not?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0068par0529	We're working on it, the future.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0067par0530	And tell Mr. Babacan, isn't transparency one of the agendas of G20? Let him say that too.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0069par0531	Were you filming if the President didn't object?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0070par0535	Okay. Now on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0071par0539	Mr. President, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. Yeah, I'm looking in the living room, so I'm kind of sad. Mr. Babacan has been responsible for Turkey's economy for 12 years, of course, and has had successful work. There have been recent interventions, and as a result of these interventions, there have been conditions in the economy. We've given you a gene question about this, but I'm talking about the government's Deputy Prime Minister, and I'm looking at this room, where there's -2, 4, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16 - 17 AK PARTI MPs in the room. Even this painting raises the question whether there is a point or not to go to the government's responsibility. If the presidents had any responsibility to Parliament, we would exercise the constitutional right to control without hesitation, implementing a geneor or control mechanism in our party group, the President's economy, the Central Bank fight. However, the presidents have irresponsibility, they're only being tried for treason, which requires 417 MPs' votes. When we ask ourselves who will be responsible for the economy when it comes to the government's conduct against Parliament, of course, who will we hold responsible for the economy? The next thing we know, there's the Minister of Development. He says, "I'm the boss of the economy." The next thing you know, I've got the Minister of Economy. He says, "I'm the boss of the economy." He says, "I'm the Minister of Finance." He says, "I'm the boss of them." E, there's also Deputy Prime Minister Babacan in charge of co-ordinating all of these economies. He says I'm in charge of all of them. And of course, in this dollar-interest fight, we naturally gave Mr. Babacan the gene question about Mr. Babacan. I think you'll be national for the first time in 12 years of your term, that's the first one, except for what's been given on the entire Council of Ministers. But I've already been looking at the Plan and Budget Commission for three years, and the ruling MPs were on the ground, and they weren't, but they were all sitting down when the new ministers came in -- based on what you said in one last meeting, we'd like to hear from you, Mr. Babacan. So, there are words that you say at a really important meeting, and so important that you say that for efficiency in the economy, for stability, for financial discipline, you say that justice is very important, and the law is very important. Look, friends, it's very important to be a state of law; justice, independent judgment is very important, especially when you take notice of it -- I think, it was a meeting of KONFED. Now, I'm just gonna take a look at the hot cash dump, liquidity. $62 billion of 131 billion in stocks, $52 billion in treasury bonds, and $17 billion on the market. Now, everyone's looking at the Fed's interest increase. So the amount of hot money isn't really known, it's also an issue of non-existent money, but here comes an interest lobby, a dollar lobby. Now, why is he coming out? President Erdogan -- he does not write that he is responsible for the economy in the President's duties -- comes out at rallies, in the squares, to the President of the Central Bank of Turkey, who is constitutionally independent, says to the President of the Central Bank of Turkey: "You are a traitor. You are a traitor." Mr Babacan told you as well as to the government; you are a traitor! Is it possible that you walked along these roads for twelve years, wet together in the rain? I mean, we know you guys very well, and when you come to the place, you don't give your words very kindly, and it's a 130-page briefing presentation of Mr. Prime Minister versus a president who says, "It's a high interest, bad governance." And it's a 130-page briefing that you and you are involved in. You went to the palace, and they showed you two counselors, one of them being a hero, and the other of whom was Cemil Erdem. You showed honor there, too, and you said, "I came here to brief the President. They sent word later. Start, I'm coming." That's how you handled it. That's right, it's crooked, it's written down. Now, how right is it in front of the press that the President tells the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, who has taken responsibility for the economy for 12 years? Of course, we'd like to ask the President in person, but I'm saying that the control of opposition parties is in the government, and we'd like to hear from you on behalf of the government, very clear things. How, for example, was he convinced after the briefing, the President, how did he end up being so sweet? So in order for him to settle down, all this fighting had to go on outside and suddenly find $2.62? Now, in the debates of the Central Bank-President, the $2.62 was reduced to 10,750 per million per person in 2013, to 10,500 per person in 2014. So the GDP per capita was reduced to $8,500, as of March 12th -- between March 2nd and March 12th -- to 8,500. So the citizen is down $2,000 per person. Now, as $2,000 falls into poverty, Turkey now has the most fragile economy at the G20 summit, not the 16th largest economy; its growth has fallen; its current deficit has increased; we have paid off the IMF's debt as a result of energy policies; we will lend it to the IMF. We are talking about an economy that wants to borrow from the IMF again. Because the sum of foreign debt in Turkey is just $400 billion in private sectors, 390 and so on, we call it 400. Now, what happens, of course, when this dollar goes up to the business, the corporations, who owe $400 billion? His debts are rising. So, what's the citizen's money when his debts go up? The reflection of this is coming to the citizen. Look, the minimum-paying $929, the Turkish lira, because it melted in the face of the rise of the dollar, cost $140, by the way. Then, a pensioner, a pensioner of $1,000, lost $147 in this interest fight. Now, the government will give 100 lira to those who have a pension of less than $1,000. You know, that's what you call a citizen losing his donkey. You lose 147 liras, you lower your value, then you give 100 lira, and you do it before the election, you use it as an election material. It's never acceptable. In the last two months, after we've filed a motion for the geneorization of the dollar -- 2,62 -- it's now been considered to be 2.64 -- there's been talk of a $135 billion increase in debt stocks, along with $396 billion in external debt. Now, who's winning? Who is this interest lobby? Mr. Babacan, your last term and 78 million of our citizens are looking at you right now. Who's winning? Who's the dollar lobby, who's the interest lobby, who's getting more money, who's getting less money? I really think it's right to hear you say that. Because the Finance Minister attributes the increase in dollars to the internal affairs of the United States. Minister of Economy Mr. Zeybekci says the expected fluctuation. You have different explanations, Mr. Babacan. I want to make it very clear here that we want to know what convinced the President in your 130-page presentation. We said independent justice should be strengthened for economic efficiency. Guys, what independent judgment are we talking about, for God's sake? There were three incidents yesterday. I'd like to take it with the latest statements from Mr. Babacan. In the sledgehammer case, 280 officers were admitted to the general for five years, then acquitted. Who did wrong here? Yesterday all the electricity went out in Turkey; industry stopped, investments stopped, factories stopped, subways stopped, hospitals stopped, surgeries stopped, everything stopped, and the loss was quite high. How did this happen? Yesterday, many social events have not been learned from this building of concrete, iron and glass, and many lawyers have been attacked, but neither the judge nor the lawyer's safety has been considered in this court. Why? In 2005 we will bring the Turkish Penal Code and the CMK. The government has not brought the legal armband until now; as it did not bring the judicial armband; the last time, after the 17 December operation, the Law of the Judiciary was dismissed, after these regulations had filed a lawsuit. And that's when the prosecutors rebelled, and he said: "You turned us into police officers." Even the judges said: "This is not legal law, it's legal service. When you bring the security package out, the prosecutors came to the governors, the governors and the governors and the police chiefs, 79 bars, all the barmen, all the different views came to the front of the House of Redia. Now, there's a situation going on over there; there's another twist, there's another twist, there's another shot at lawyers, there's another shot at the defense, there's another one at the trial, there's another lawyer being held responsible by the President. Have fear of God. Think of something: There are hundreds of official police officers stationed at the entrance, and there are private security guards all over the floor. Where the private security guards are on the floor, there's a judge coming in, a prosecutor going in, a private security going in, and an official police coming in, thousands going in, except for the staff. Can you tell me, under the circumstances, what security can you provide in a courthouse with a court of law that's not under the judge's orders? Can you imagine, the police in that courthouse are not under the orders of the Attorney General, the President of the Justice Commission has no jurisdiction, the barrooms and the presidents have no jurisdiction. Every passing pass there is interfering with the government's orders. It is vital that the results of this intervention be shared with the public. But believe me, what Mr. Babacan said was that in this economic fluctuation, the government gave a very important and bad picture of the importance of independent judgment. Not just the government, but the President's right to defend himself, to the lawyers who are sacred... you've already removed the files of lawyers in the security package, in the court package. Now, in such an environment, is it possible for hot money to stop in this country, friends; is it possible for any company to come here and invest in these judicial conditions? Under these circumstances, of course, friends, it's not possible. Now, when we look at the loss of the dollar on the gross national product, the citizens owed the banks 6 billion in 2002, 357 billion in 2015. Yeah, that's what's growing. Now, there are growth rates explained by the Minister himself, inflation rates, unemployment rates. What about 2015-2019? Growth of 2 to 4 per cent is predicted. At the present level, growth is 2.1. The moderate but balanced growth was said to be 3.3 percent in 2014, but it did not. There will be 4 percent growth in 2015. It is said that no language is holding up. Now, look at inflation, friends: this year's end will be 6.8 per cent. It is said that 5.3 per cent will be estimated in 2015. Inflation was seen as 9.4 per cent in 2014 at the end of the year. In 2015, inflation also follows in the middle term, not below 6.3, but towards 10 per cent, even numbers. There's something wrong here, guys. In these wrongs and current increases, at the cost, of 56.7 billion of the budget -- now, only when the developments in the Middle East, the surges in the oil, when the oil falls, the current current current rate is down 7 per cent; today, the exchange has turned, while the exchange has increased, and this time has increased to an additional 60-70 billion dollars. Now, from here, with 74% of Turkey's external-dependent energy, nuclear power plant projects passed here yesterday, but as the nuclear plant project -- the Japanese -- the whole of Turkey was in the dark. While all of Turkey was in darkness, a responsible person was sought in this Parliament; only one responsible came forward and gave no accurate information for the government on this stand. Mr. Babacan, we wouldn't want to do this last send-off with a youth, but Turkey needs you, Turkey needs you to explain, Turkey needs you to explain what happened during that briefing; Turkey needs a new independent judiciary, law state, human rights, democracy; economic needs you to explain it. You, at this last time, in your final moments of duty... may be your last stand. Mr. Babacan, we're giving you the opportunity to stand up. We'll call you to the stand after the group talks, of course. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0072par0560	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Tekirdağ MP Faiz Öztrak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0073par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Once again, as I begin my speech, I wish the Republic's Attorney Mehmet Selim Kiraz, whom we lost yesterday as a result of a vicious terrorist attack, to God's mercy, his grieving family, and our nation's patience. Dear MPs, I was listening to Mr. Davutoglu's group speech yesterday. He was giving the number of growths, and I looked at it, and the number of growths was 1 trillion 749 billion Turkish dollars, and a year ago it was 1 trillion 567 billion Turkish dollars. For God's sake, what's going on? Normally, AKP spokesman's basic habit is to use these figures as dollars. I went back to see why they didn't use it as dollars, and they couldn't use it as dollars. Because in 2014, the illegal domestic product, which was $800 billion, was $823 billion in 2013, so the wrong policies of the AKP have cost our citizens in Turkey $23 billion a year. And once again, when we look at the income of the person they're always proud to say -- in dollars -- $10,404. He escaped last year? $10,822, which means every penny in this country lost $400 last year. Why? It's the wrong policies, but it's more serious. As you look at it, $10,404 is under $40 in 2008, with Turkey's average income per person. So we went back six years in 2014. In fact, all economic indicators will be better in 2015 than 2014. 2015 started, the stage opened. Now, look, the economic trust index started being published in 2012, at its lowest level since February 2012. The consumer trust index dropped to its level in March 2009. I'd like to remind you that the consumer trust index has been here for a month in March 2009, when the Turkish economy has narrowed down 15 per cent. Once again, when you look back, the purchase managers in the manufacturing industry are an important indicator -- in terms of industry -- have dropped to the lowest level since April 2009. The period we call April 2009 is the period when one of the deepest crises Turkey has experienced recently, when the economy narrows down 5 per cent throughout the year. Export data in March minus 13.4; data from TEM. Now I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, how can you claim 2015 would be better than 2014? The chances of 2015 being better than 2014 have now disappeared. 2015 will be worse than 2014. See, as we look back at the dollar from New Year's, the dollar gained about 11.75 per cent from January 16th to March 31st, and the Turkish lira lost 11.75 per cent against the dollar. And how much did other countries' money lose against dollars in the same period? 4.6%. Why is ours about three times theirs? There's another economy like us, that's the Brazilian economy. Both economies are corrupt economics, let me be clear. Now, look, ever since March 12th -- things have been settled down. It's been said that the money of countries like this -- they've earned 0.9%, close to 1%, and Turkish lira has lost 0.6%. Things are not going well in Turkey. In fact, the liquidity that hides all the mistakes in the time of the flood of dollars no longer conceals these mistakes. Since 2013, it has become clear that this economy has been badly governed, including the period in which liquidity is abundant in the world. Now, look, on January 16, 2015, the President roared: Now they can say that the Central Bank is independent, and I'm independent. What does that mean? We'll call them and talk to them, that's not how it works. After that, the work went up, the treason, the selling of the land. In the end, you were told that you needed to get yourself together, and then whatever happened, they kept you waiting at the door for 45 minutes, and they took two of your advisors with them. He said, "They are your contacts." He listened to the briefing you and the president of the central bank with two advisors. After that, we settled things down. He said, "But one of the counselors is going to move on to the presidential system, and that's going to change anyway." The Central Bank has a prescription, and we'll change it anyway. See, in a country where the Central Bank is questioned about car independence, here are the sights we're living in today. And this increase in dollars has no receipts for this nation? As of 27 cents from New Year's, Turkey's open currency position is 431 billion dollars, times 27 cents, loss of 116 billion Turkish liras. The real sector's open position is 183 billion dollars, times 27 cents, loss of 49.5 billion Turkish liras. Now, let's get this straight: how does this damage end? We passed March 31st. This damage entered into the balance sheets, and the first quarterly balance sheets were written with this damage. Right now, when banks look at companies' balance sheets, they see this damage. What are they gonna do? To tell you the truth, the banks are going to try to cut the loan once, and the corporations are either going to start hiring, or they're going to give them a raise, or they're going to shut down their company. Either way, it's gonna be a citizen's bill, and it's coming out. Look, lower the interest, lower the interest. Really, when we reduce the interest, will things get better? I'd like to share my opinion on that, too. Look, there are three countries: Turkey, India, Indonesia. The policy interest is 7.5 per cent each, but the unemployment rate in Turkey is 10.7 per cent, so it is close to 11.1% in India, 5 per cent in Indonesia, 6 per cent in Indonesia. How's that? Why 7.5 percent interest and we have 11 percent unemployment and they have half of us? Inflation is 7.6; they're 5.1 percent; they're 6.3 percent; the interest is the same. Again, growth, when we look at it, we have 2.9 - 2.6 in the last quarter - 7.5% in the last quarter in India; 5.5% in Indonesia. Now, Mr. Secretary, what is this? There's no way to lower interest. Didn't you tell him? ▪ This is not interest. We ruled this country badly, and when the currency pool dried up, and the sea of currency dried up in the world, we became one of the most fragile economies in the world. This economy no longer holds stitches in our administration. You should have said. Look, why did all this actually happen? One: Apparently, one of the recent problems is the fight between the President and the President of the Central Bank. Why? Because that means there's a management problem in the country. In the administration, Turkey has problems that pose institutional risks, so the President can step in at any moment and intervene in the functioning of the economy and disrupt the departure, unauthorizedly disrupt it. But I think there's something more important than that: June 16, 2009, date 15082. This decree contains your signature, the signature of the Prime Minister of the previous term, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the signature of Mr. Davutoglu as Foreign Minister. What does this decree say? This decree states that companies who used to earn foreign currency in Turkey could have borrowed money and removed it. Now, corporations can be borrowed by exchange money, regardless of whether companies can get foreign currency from 2009. So, what happened? In 2008, the open position of companies with 71.2 billion dollars reached 183 billion dollars at the end of 2014. That's a terrible increase. This shows that companies in Turkey borrow money very quickly. So what are the economies that are now declared to be the world's most fragile economy, or what are the economies that are said to be problematic because of the dollar's value in the world today? It's the fastest economy in currency. Turkey is at the beginning of this. Minister, at that time you would travel -- and we said, "Look, if you do this, the competitiveness of the Turkish economy will go away, you can't produce, industrial production will go down, you can't increase income. But you told us: "It's over, those paradigms have changed, we've stopped those paradigms; it's time for consumption, construction and shopping center, now it's time to increase debt." Because there's a lot of money in the world. There's no such paradigm change. One rule doesn't change in the world; in economies like us who don't take precautions, when the dollar rains start, there's a flood, when the rain stops, there's a desert. Now that Turkey is living in the desert, let me be very clear. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So when we look back on Turkey today, Turkey, really, with the current deficit -- no matter how much it's done -- is a very serious problem again. When we look at the ratio of our currency reserves to short-term debt... we have a reserve, and now we say our reserves are too high, our reserves are too high. When you compare the reserves to short-term loans, or short-term loans, we have a $96 reserve against $100 short-term debt. So in 2002, how many reserves did the people who took over this economy leave you in exchange for every $100 short-term loan? $176. Where's $176, where's $96? To be honest, the Turkish economy is going through a really difficult process right now, its growth rate alerts, unemployment numbers alerts. So the number of unemployment has risen to 10.9 per cent, 3 million 145 thousand unemployed. For the past four or five months, the number of unemployed has increased by 500,000 each month. Is it possible to say that this economy is well managed? Wide-defined unemployment has reached 5,700,000 people. Young unemployment: Out of every five young people looking for a job, one is unemployed. In February, unemployment benefits increased by 25 per cent to 324k. And what did you do? In order to fight unemployment, you submitted the bill to Parliament last month to facilitate the work of foreigners in Turkey with the Prime Minister's signature. I mean, I'm really curious about why you brought in a bill that would allow foreigners to work in this country when our own children are unemployed. This shows something that you can't manage the economy. So, quite frankly, there's been an index called the Economic Freedom Index. Look, in 2015, you were ranked 70th in 178 countries, 64th in 2014. So, what's falling in the lower indexes? Property rights. There's no respect for property rights in this country, the rule of law is over, the separation of forces is over. No one comes into this economy and invests in it, and they don't. When you look at your investments in real terms, private investments are below 2011. Look, this country is a country with real potential. When you look at where it is, where it is, you know, Africa on one side, Asia on the other, Europe on the other, the Middle East on the other, it's all around us. Normally, an economy like this would have to attract $40 billion of foreign capital a year, not over $6 billion. Why? Because there's no trust. So, I just told the trust index -- when you look at it, it's all crawling down the bottom. So, financial freedoms have fallen, public spending has fallen, freedom has fallen in business, freedom of labour, freedom of investment has fallen, everything has fallen. So, when we look at this index, Turkey has very serious problems. Dear lawmakers, Bloomberg recently issued an index: a problem index. When we look back at the problem index, Turkey is number 9 of the first 15 economies to suffer in 2015. Does that happen in a well-run economy? No. In fact, you had an opportunity ahead of you, and unfortunately, you missed it with the President's intervention. Oil prices began to fall, with this growth to correct the appearance of inflation, the current deficit, the foreign people who had started writing stories that would benefit the most from these jobs, $7.5 billion came into the country in January in exchange for a $2 billion current deficit; and with the full markets stable, everything fell apart as a result of the operation to reduce interest. The Central Bank's political pressure has been questioned, and unfortunately, the president of the Central Bank has made a serious mistake by taking such a wrong step and making it look like he's under political pressure. However, look, in India, the president of the Central Bank also downloaded interest. It's not in a presentation to the President of the Central Bank, but they wrote 7.75, which is 7.5; 0.25 discounts, and one of the most successful interest reduction operations in the world. What happened? The new government brought in its budget there, announced structural reforms he was going to do with it, the president of the Central Bank Rajan came out, okay, we're going to do this right now. Then I'm lowering interest. Inflation is going to fall, and I'm lowering interest for him. He said, "Well, there's been a very successful interest reduction." Hopefully, after June 7th, our country will receive such successful interest reductions in Republican People's Party rule. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, let me tell you, an economy without the power of global competition can't stand. You've put off structural reforms that will give this economy the power of global competition since 2007, passed it off, stalled the nation. If there was no growth that everyone else benefited from, then even the United States accepted that growth in that country is no longer sustainable today, but when you turn around and look at Turkey, the richest 1% of this country had nine percent of its wealth in your time, and in 2002, it had 55 per cent of its wealth in 2014. I mean, you've seriously corrupted the revenue distribution, the distribution of wealth. Now, of course, you can say, "Sir, when you compared 2002 to 2014, we reduced the income of less than $2, so this is how much we reduced it." My advice to you is, compare those numbers with the numbers of other countries. Now, another important event is a question of sustainability. In this issue of sustainability, you have to protect the gains that have been achieved. But the last and most important issue is democracy in this country, the state of law, transparency, accountability. When that doesn't happen -- let me be clear -- a citizen's pockets burn, no growth, no debts paid. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, there's no way you can do these reforms, but I believe there's an emergency action plan you need to implement. In order to restore that trust lost in the economy, everyone must be drawn to the constitutional line, the Public Contraction Act must be restored to international norms as a indicator, the guarantees of treasure in the public-private cooperation must be transparent, the automatic guarantees on new projects must be limited. I mean, look, you've got 167 projects, you've got 88 billion guarantees of treasure, they can call those guarantees any minute. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, I salute the General Assembly as I finish my words.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0074par0595	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak. İzmir MP İlknur Denizli on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0075par0599	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the mismanagement of the economy by Mr. Idris Baluken, Vice President of the HDP Group. I salute your coven. Before we begin my words, I would like to express my condolences to the family and nation of our deceased, Republican Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who we lost yesterday in a terrorist attack. In my speech, I would like to first discuss steps to ensure and maintain macroeconomic stability during our government's time and then share my assessments of recent developments in the global economy and Turkey's economy. Precious lawmakers, prepared by EC PARTY governments in the past 13 years, with open, consistent, and timely macroeconomic policies and realistic understanding, the medium-term policy frameworks have boosted predictability in the economy and strengthened the environment of trust. Turkey has solid macroeconomic foundations. After 2002, economic policies were built on the goal of creating a strong, stable, dynamic, efficient and competitive market economy led by the private sector. High public deficits, macroeconomic policies and structural reforms aimed at fighting chronic inflation and unstable growth have made Turkey a stable, strong, competitive market economy with the world.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0076par0605	Mr. President, I'm sorry. He can't represent another minister who's been asked about him. Let's take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0077par0607	Mr. Zozani, this is in the name of the government. Mr. Denizli, continue your conversation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0078par0609	Turkey's economy has also improved revenue distribution as it grows. In 2004, Turkey moved from the lower middle income group to the upper middle income group, and rose to the top of the group during the follow-up period, with the contribution of structural reforms carried out with urgency and great determination during our governments. As of the end of 2013, the annual income per person rose from $3,500 per person to over $10,000 per person in 2002. The national income per capita has increased more than three times in this period, but our country's position in the global economy has continued to grow. More importantly, economic growth has become much more inclusive because of high employment development, rapid improvement in income distribution, and improvements in access to health and education services. Turkey has been the fastest among the OECD countries to drop its Gini coefficient in the last ten years. Great distances have been made in the fight against poverty. Since 2006, we have no less than a dollar a day per person. In 2002, the population was reduced from 3.04 per cent to 0.06 per cent per day, at the end of 2013. Our population, considered another poverty line, was less than $4.3 per day income per day, while in 2002 our population was at 30.3 per cent, and by the end of 2013, it landed at 2.06 per cent. Dear lawmakers, increased employment and participation in the labour force. In 2014, strong employment increased by 5.4 per cent year-on-year. Joining the labour force and employment rates continued to increase for the last five years, respectively at 50.5 per cent and 45.5 per cent in 2014. On the other hand, the unemployment rate rose to 9.9% last year due to a high increase in supply in the labour market. In terms of exports, more than four floors have been recorded. In 2002, our exports, which were 36.1 billion dollars, rose to 157.6 billion dollars in 2014. As of 2014, Turkey exported to 239 countries and customs areas. At the same time, tourism revenues and tourists were significantly increased. Tourism revenue, which was $12.4 billion in 2002, rose to $34.3 billion in 2014. Turkey's number of tourists came to Turkey in 2002 when it was 12 million, and in 2014 it was close to 36 million. In addition, $148.7 billion of foreign capital was introduced in Turkey through the end of 2002, while $148.7 billion of foreign capital was introduced directly to the country from 2003-2014. Dear lawmakers, the strong public finance position is also under way. The central management budget deficit, expected to take place at 1.4 per cent of the GDP in 2014, is relatively low compared to the developed and developing countries, but at 33.1 per cent of the European Union-defined stock of general management debt is at about half of Maastricht Criterers in this area. The public burden of debt and improvement in its structure make the economy much more resistant to external shocks. The reduction in public balances in the need for improvement and debt also brings the decline in funding for interest costs from the budget. Thus, more funds are being created for investments and social spending. Inflation is at one-digit levels. After the high and permanent inflation period of the past 20 years, Turkey has achieved single-digit inflation figures in 2004, thanks to prudent finance and monetary policies, and inflation has been reduced to 6.2% in 2012, at the lowest value of the last four years. In 2014 inflation increased to 8.2 per cent, due to the loss of value in Turkish lira and high-watching food prices. As of February 2015, annual inflation was reduced to 7.6 per cent. Dear lawmakers, in our government's time, macroeconomic policies and structural reforms are of great importance in co-direction. For this purpose, the Economic Co-ordination Board was formed in 2009, and the Financial Stabilisation Committee was formed in 2011. Our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ali Babacan, the Economic Co-ordination Board, gathered with the participation of the ministers in the presidency, monitors and assesses developments in economic stability, ensures that the necessary steps are taken quickly by providing co-ordinance in determining economic policies and plans and programmes. Similarly, the Financial Stabilisation Committee is meeting with the participation of our Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Treasury Undersecretary of the National Bank, President of the National Bank, Chairman of the SEC, and President of the TMSF, making detailed assessments of domestic and international economic and financial developments, handling micro and macro measures with a holistic approach. In this framework, our economic management and our relevant institutions continue to work in harmony. In Turkey, macroeconomic goals and policies are determined by governments. One of the important feet of these goals is inflation. As stated in the Central Bank's Law, the government finds the target of inflation along with the Central Bank. After this target is set, the Central Bank continues its efforts to achieve its inflation goal, considering macroeconomic goals. The Central Bank Law has also been made possible for monetary policy to contribute to macroeconomic stability by considering growth and employment. In addition, the Central Bank shares with the public the reasons and measures needed to be taken in the event of a possible deviation or deviation from inflation targets, in accordance with the principles of transparency and accountability. The Central Bank, strengthened after the 2001 economic crisis in Turkey, implements monetary policy in harmony with the country's macroeconomic foundations under its inflation-seeking regime. Dear lawmakers, recent fluctuations in financial markets have attracted attention as actions stemming from foreign developments in the region. As it is known, the Central Bank of the United States (FED), which launched the normalisation process in May 2013, is expected to begin its interest increase in 2015. In this way, American dollars, both developed and developing, are valued against the developing country's currencies. Almost all developed countries are also affected by the process. In Turkey, the strong macroeconomic foundations show that these fluctuations observed in financial markets are conjunctural and have no significant impact on the real economy. Developments in this area are being closely monitored by our economy administration, and the necessary steps are being taken without delay. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is taking decisive steps towards its 2023 targets. There are important goals ahead of Turkey in the coming period. In the beginning, Turkey's high income group rises among countries without falling into a middle income trap and enters the top 10 economies of the world our government was aiming for in 2023. In recent years, global competition has increased daily, and our government has taken the necessary steps on macro and micro-based basis to boost productivity and efficiency in the economy, to improve resource distribution, in order for Turkey to increase international competitiveness in line with its 2023 goals. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's economy has passed a major test in the 2008 global financial crisis process and later successfully completed the test. In this process, our economy has taken the necessary measures to reduce risks and minimize the negative effects of global fluctuations. Thus, our economy continues to grow on solid goals. Members of parliament, with these feelings and thoughts, I respectfully welcome the General Assembly's request for Mr. Ali Babacan, our Deputy Prime Minister, should not be raised.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0079par0625	Thank you, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0080par0626	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0079par0627	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0080par0630	Mr. orator at some point -- I don't think he fully understands the subject of our client -- he said that macroeconomic policies are the government's responsibility. Right, that's what we're saying, why did the President intervene? That's what we're saying. The ten-year plan has been revised, the medium-term program revised. The Prime Minister took 11 ministers in charge of the economy behind him, did all these revisions, and the last one wasn't enough, so he went to the Gap, revised a new plan. Now, how would there be 25,000 in 2023 to the gross gross here, down to 8,000, we would expect the ruling party to tell that and say, "Don't get involved, brother, not work against the president." That's our main thing. Now, Mr. Babacan, let's hope he tells it properly.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0079par0631	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0081par0638	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the motion on the geneorization of my side. I salute you all. At the very beginning of my words, İstanbul Chief Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed yesterday in a treasonous attack, wishes Allah's mercy to his family and to the entire judicial community. Our judicial and law enforcement agencies have launched a large study of this attack, and I would like to point out that there has been an intense effort in the near future to shed light on all the fronts of the incident. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if you look at the world economy, we don't yet see a balanced and sustainable recovery that covers the general population, the effects of the 2008 crisis are still under way. Economic activity between regions and countries has significantly changed. The American economy from developed countries is picking up relatively quickly, while growth in the eurozone and Japan is slow and irregular. In developing countries, there is a overall slowdown in growth figures. The growth of Latin America last year has dropped to 1.3 per cent, and the growth of all Europeans last year is 1.3 per cent. In the eurozone, there is only 0.8 per cent growth in the eurozone, including Germany and France. When we look at the world, we see faster growth figures in Asia, where China -- a little bit of a locomotive -- but there's slowing down there, too. Even for China, it is no longer possible to figure out nine per cent, ten per cent, and this year we are talking about a country with a 52 per cent savings rate in China, which is 52 per cent of its national income. When we look at the geography surrounding Turkey, there are serious challenges that we can call war between Ukraine and Russia. There is a civil war in Syria. A coalition force of 10 different countries against Yemen has launched a new operation. Iraq is not yet stable, but one third of Iraq is in fact occupied by a terrorist organization. Despite these serious economic difficulties in Europe and serious geopolitical risks near our country, Turkey's economy continues to grow, and the 2.9 per cent we caught last year is actually a positive number in all these conditions. Even one of the problems that I've just counted is that even Turkey is capable of leading it to a recession. It's a country that can go on growing as if there's a war on its border and nothing's happening. Again, despite such intense trade and financing ties with Europe, Turkey has been positively divided and continuing to grow, although the crisis in Europe has continued with all its violence since 2008. This recent crisis is not to be underestimated, but the biggest economic and financial crisis of the last century has cost more than the cost of World War II. During this period, the parliaments of many countries had to make very difficult decisions, and they had to apply very painful prescriptions. Very serious and difficult measures, such as high tax increases, layoffs, actual salaries, taxing pensions, were discussed in the European parliaments and were forced to be taken out of obligation. We, thankfully, did not experience any such negatives in Turkey, and despite all the troubling paintings, we continued to develop altogether. From where I'm standing, we've got an economy that's gone from $230 billion to $800 billion. Our exports went from $36 billion to $160 billion. According to the World Bank's classification, we have officially risen from the lower middle income group to the upper middle income group. Turkey's average income was 35 per cent of the European Union's average in 2002, the 2014 figures have not yet been released, but in 2013, it has increased to 53 per cent. So we have a wealth that rises from 35 per cent of the European Union's average to 53 per cent, and these are numbers that are calculated according to the buying power parity, not affected by daily courtship movements. The distribution of income in Turkey has improved in this period. We don't have a citizen with less than a dollar a day, we don't have a citizen with less than two dollars a day. Even when we looked at $4.3, the percentage dropped from 30 per cent to 2.06 per cent. Right now, seven billion people in the world are trying to make a living with less than a dollar. We don't have that kind of population. Of all the OECD countries, we've become the fastest ever to improve revenue distribution. According to the World Bank's latest reports, the size of the middle class in Turkey has doubled in the last ten years. Twenty-two percent of our population is defined by international standards as the middle class. At present, it has risen to 44 per cent. Turkey's growth figures have continued to increase jobs in Turkey, even though there has been a similar decline in Europe, and in all developing countries over the past few years. Since 2009, 6 million people have increased our total number of employees, and according to the latest 2014 employment figures, we have a total of 1,32,000 jobs increased from 2013 to 2014. Workforce has increased by 5.04 per cent in one year, so 2.9 per cent growth has increased by 5.04 per cent. On the other hand, our participation in the labor force is increasing rapidly. There's a three-point increase in one year, the level of participation in the labor force. Our population, especially our women, now wants to join the business world, the working life. As a result, even though employment has increased, our unemployment rates also have increased in certain amounts, in certain proportions. But another country that produces jobs as high as Turkey does not now exist in developing countries or in developed countries. So if you look at the percentage of our increase in total employment since 2009, you can't easily see such a number in another country. We've managed all this growth with fiscal discipline. On the one hand, growing up, we dropped our debt supply. It is easy to grow during short term periods; sometimes by printing money, sometimes by raising budget deficits as much as possible, countries can achieve growth in the short term. Our growth is not that kind of growth; it's a balanced growth, it's a healthy growth, it's a quality growth. With growth, we continue to fight inflation. At the same time, budget discipline continues, and according to the latest figures, our debt rate has dropped to 33.5 per cent, according to the latest national income figures, 33.5 per cent, and by the end of 2014 the stockpile of debt is significantly reduced. We have a strong banking sector. We have a banking system that has 16% capital capacity and has a rate of only 2.9 per cent follow-up rate. Our Banking Editing and Control Agency has been monitoring the sector closely and is taking every precaution necessary for the sector to grow in balance and soundness. Our Central Bank's main objective in monetary policies is to ensure price stability. Our Central Bank, along with the government, is determining its inflation target, and in line with this goal, determines the monetary policy that determines price stability. The Central Bank has the authority to determine its monetary policy and its monetary policy tools directly. In addition to traditional vehicles, the Central Bank also uses tools such as the interest corridor, the reserve option mechanism, within the framework of its new policy. In addition, our Central Bank has been urged to support the government's growth and employment policies in order to ensure price stability, as well as to ensure stability in the financial system and to take regulatory measures related to money and exchange markets. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, both in the global financial crisis of 2008 and in 2013, the decisions or actions the United States Central Bank has made, certainly, are crucial to global markets, and especially in recent months, the impact of the US Central Bank towards tightening, while the European Central Bank has made significant changes in the euro/dolar parity, in which it will take a relaxing step. The Euro/dollar parite has been extremely volatile over the last year. So what happened to Turkish lira in this period? If you look at the short term, there could be ups and downs for very different reasons. When we look at the period of one year -- the twelve months between March 31st 2015 and March 31st 2014 -- we first see that American dollars have become valued in many currency, and many countries have lost value in dollars. Euros have lost a total of 28 per cent value against US dollars in the last year, while Turkish lira has lost 21 per cent in 12 months. This means that for those living in Germany or France or in 19 countries where euros are being used, the dollar is much higher than our dry ones in these twelve months. Our increase is 21.9 per cent; the increase in the eurozone is 28.2 per cent. At the same time, Turkish lira lost 21.9% against the dollar, while it gained 5.4 per cent against the euro. So last year, on March 31, we're looking at the euro dry 2.95, maybe we forgot about those days, but today it's 2.79. Thus, when we make our evaluations, we will not only look at the conditions of Turkey, but also the conditions of the entire world. Currently, Turkey is an external economy, an economy with an open capital account, an economy free of capital movements. An external economy is certainly affected by global fluctuations, but what's important here is that we can minimize the impact of global fluctuations on Turkey as economic management. It's not zero, you're sure to feel it. No doubt we will feel it when you travel on a ship, as you feel the weather conditions, or the waves of the sea, or the ocean, in a certain way, inside the ship. This must be seen, and while considering market indicators in Turkey, we need to look at external conditions and also look at our internal conditions. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers; many indicators in Turkey are moving in a positive direction, and when you look at it, you know, in October, we announced the medium-term program, and we said that our most important aims were to fight inflation, fight the current explanation; and we said our third goal was to increase Turkey's potential growth, and we said it had to be done by structural reforms. When you look at that day from October to this day, we are thankful that both inflation and the current middle-term programme have improved, and we expect to see a better picture by the end of this year than we anticipated in the medium-term programme, with the contribution of current oil prices in the open. Turkey has painted a great success in the economy over the past 12 years, no matter what anyone says, and has been registered as a rising country in the world and also as a rising donor country. When we look at the basis of Turkey's success, we see political stability, and the political stability of Turkey is the result of the confidence and stability that our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan started during the prime minister's term and brought to our country as Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey at a 12-year period. Last year, you know, we made local elections, we made presidential elections. Very regularly, without the slightest harm to political stability, we elected our new President for the first time by the people's vote, we elected our new President as the EC PARTI, our new Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has begun his post, and Turkey has moved on without any compromise from its political stability. Hopefully, we will maintain that stability during the next period. Trust and stability are Turkey's most important asset. We don't have great wealth in oil, we don't have a cubic meter of natural gas, the only wealth of our country is trust and stability. As long as the climate of trust and stability is maintained, Turkey is clear, its path is clear. And without trust and stability, there's no way you're going to get results no matter what you do about economic policy. You see it right next to us in Europe, you print trillions of dollars, euros, you put it on the market, it doesn't work; you give 10 to 12 percent budget deficits, the state borrows, the money spends. You say, "Let the market live." You say, it doesn't happen again; it doesn't have to be trust, it has to be stable. And that's what we got in Turkey, thanks be to God. And by the way, I'd like to get in and out of the things that the high-profile speakers are talking about before me. Mr. Günal. You're too late for structural reforms in particular. In fact, everyone knows what we've been doing for 12 years about structural reforms, the whole world sees. In many areas, we have zero laws passed through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we have brand-new institutions. But what did we do? We have put forward a detailed structural programme until 2008, and this has been shared with the public at four separate press conferences by our Prime Minister, and we will increase the potential growth of Turkey when these 25 priority transformation programmes are applied to its day. Like I said, it's easy for temporary growth. You get a little bit of growth in a year, but you can leave a troubled, damaged picture ahead. A continuous, sustainable, healthy growth can only be achieved through structural reforms, by increasing the potential of growth, and hopefully that's how we'll do it. Again, the technical details of our Prime Minister's work on transparency have been significantly completed, but you do appreciate that we are now at the end of the working schedule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So, this study is all set up in a few weeks, and when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opens next semester, hopefully, we expect the EC PARTY government to bring it to the agenda of the Assembly at that time. Mr. President, there are some issues that Mr. Hasip Kaplan has mentioned about the content of our meeting with Mr. President, some media reports. First of all, you can't trust any of this news unless it's confirmed, you can't trust any of it. What's the main thing here? There was a meeting in our Prime Minister's presidency in those days and a written statement from the Prime Minister's office following a meeting with the President was made, and a written official statement was made from the presidency; they are the reference, the content of the original talks, the decisions, the coming point is clearly written there. I specifically urge you not to trust any other news. Again, another thing: this interest lobby and the currency lobby, or who are they? Mr. Kaplan asked. In fact, it's quite possible to do so just as we describe each lobby. Perhaps we can identify the interest lobby, as those who want to increase interest interest in the market and who are taking advantage of it. We can still identify the foreign currency lobby as those who want to increase and benefit from it, of course. Mr. Oztrak had statements about 2015, so the year 2015 won't be any better. Our findings are not just our own analyses, but the analysis of all international institutions, the World Bank, the International Money Fund, the OECD, the European Commission's analysis of all of them is already being delivered that Turkey's growth of 2015 will be higher than 2014. It's not just our determination, it's the Earth's determination that we share with you here. When it comes to debting companies with foreign currency, large companies can already borrow from abroad or somehow borrow from abroad. Instead of giving commissions abroad, we opened up debt inside; bans continue for the SMEs, bans continue for the households. I'd like to talk to you about one last thing about the reserves and finish what I said. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have two more minutes, please?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0082par0666	Of course, Mr. Secretary, finish what you said.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0081par0667	Thank you. Now, Mr. Oztrak has expressed the ratio of reserves with short-term obligations. Mr. Öztrak was my Undersecretary, and we worked together for about six months, so he's very good at numbers. Of course, numbers always tell the truth, statistics tell the truth, but how we interpret it is very important. I just want to give you a number: for that day, our Central Bank reserve is $28 billion, but we owe the IMF $23 billion. So, in those days, Turkey had run out of zero, but with $23 billion in debt from the IMF, it was a country that could keep the Central Bank reserve at 28 billion, and I find it useful to emphasize that for the record again. One last thing: Mr. Günal had an expression on the interest payments. We paid $600 billion interest in these 12 years. Which is correct, 600 billion. But if we hadn't been able to reduce interest in this period, if Turkey had continued to borrow the same interest, the interest would have been 1 trillion 612 billion in 12 years. In other words, Turkey has used $1 trillion in old money to pay $1 million in interest.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0083par0670	We have no objection to him. We're still paying interest, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0081par0671	Our goal, and our hope, of course, is to ensure that these interest rates go down even further, to even more reasonable points, both in terms of treasury debt interest and in terms of market interest. And for that purpose, all of our economic units are working hard and putting forth a great deal of effort. Again, I'd like to thank the speakers here who expressed their views before me. We've already worked hard with each and every one of them in the Plan and Budget Commission for how many years, and we've received very useful, constructive criticism, suggestions, and we've reflected them in our legislation, and I give my regards again.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0084par0674	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0085par0675	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0084par0676	Here you go, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0085par0677	Mr. Secretary mentioned some numbers by mentioning my name, which isn't entirely true, and I'd like to correct them.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0084par0678	So, he gave you the wrong information?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0085par0679	Yes, yes, I mean, I want to speak according to 69, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0084par0680	Here you go, Mr. Oztrak, fix it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0085par0683	Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary just mentioned the IMF debt, which was 23 billion dollars in debt, 23 billion dollars in reserve: he said. Let me be clear, when you look at the level of IMF debt, today's IMF debt is no different than the bank debt. Now, today's Turkish foreign debt was $180 billion that day, and today it came to 400 or so billion. Oh, now you're going to say: it's private sector debt. I'll tell you this: Look, in the last crisis in America, how did private sector debt become public debt overnight? Let me be very clear, there is no such thing as a private sector debt. When there's a systemic crisis, that debt could be a government debt overnight. So let me make it clear to you that we were undersecretary of the Treasury at the time, and the Minister came, and we told him what should happen with the economy; we worked together, and he asked me to stay longer, but I didn't stay, so I left. Now, look, I'll tell you something: where we come from today, we have a more fragile economy than that day. We need to be aware of that, and we need to take the necessary precautions. Come on, at the beginning of 2013, you were among the world's top five fragile economies in one night because of the debt of these companies and the debt of the state from the outside. Why did you come in? Because the President of the Central Bank of the United States said I won't print any more dollars. In the economy that you've made dependent on so much hot money, we, sir, are not right to compare short-term debt, short-term debt to IMF debt, as it was that day, again, it's a mistake, Mr. Secretary, I think you need to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0086par0688	Thank you, Mr. Oztrak.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0087par0689	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0086par0690	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. If you could just say it out loud...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0087par0692	Mr. President, in my speech, I have stated how much the workers, laborers and officers -- by giving them the numbers -- have fallen due to the increase in foreign currency. Mr. Prime Minister, our Deputy Prime Minister has mentioned 44 percent in mid-income figures. It's completely incompatible with the data we have. I want to give you the real data. So in our statement, the poverty limit has increased in the face of the reduction in labour wages and civil servants' salaries.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0086par0693	Mr. Kaplan, go ahead and fix it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Be patient, Mr. Lawmakers, you haven't seen it from beginning to end, at least listen to it now. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0088par0699	Mr. President, I mean, I really expected Mr. Babacan to tell me something here today. Getting on the verge of resigning, tension, fights with consultants, all of that happened, and if we say it didn't happen, we'll fool ourselves. But there is one fact, Mr. Babacan, quite frankly: Despite all the regional negative wars you've stated, Turkey is growing, and unfortunately, 44% of our population has reached the mid-income level, not real. Look, the minimum wage is 891, as of 2014 this year; the hunger limit was $2.295; the hunger limit is $1.205, friends -- 20 million under minimum wage, living below the hunger limit. Again, the minimum income index for the family of TK-İSK is a measure of the poverty limit, 4,000 liras. Here's 50 million people, 30 million under the poverty line, 30+20=50 million when you put in the officers, pensioners, workers, grocery stores, shops. Now, in this country, which has 50 million in poverty and hunger, the economy is good at 18 banks, it's good at 28 holdings, it's not one per cent, it's a fact that there are improvements in the work of a very minority group. 99% of Turkey faces hunger, poverty, and poverty. Of course, I didn't expect the Deputy Prime Minister to tell me anything here. And then Mr. President said, "You too, Brutus?" He started an argument again. Thank you, Mr. President, for making this statement.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0702	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0090par0703	Mr. President, in the same way, Mr. Secretary used my name to distort some of the numbers I gave him, and I'd like to make a promise to correct them. Three times by saying Mehmet Günal..
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0704	He said your numbers were correct, Mr. Günal, am I right?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0091par0705	But he said his name.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0706	He said it was true, and I didn't see anything to fix for him.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0092par0707	He told me about structural measures before that, and what I said...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0708	He didn't find you anything, he said the numbers he gave you were right.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0092par0709	Mr. President, about the structural measures, I said he said so himself, and he's making another comment on it. I was waiting to hear how they put it together, so I'm still curious about him, so he didn't answer her either.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0710	And since you didn't say that, he's still curious.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0092par0711	I mean, we'll get rid of it... it must have satisfied you, then, what the Minister said.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0093par0712	Mr. President, we don't create hypothetical agendas here. Let him go and get his tabloid news somewhere else.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit02spe0089par0713	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Talks on Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan (11/55) have been completed on whether or not the primary Gensorial Admission will be taken into consideration. Now, I submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene should be taken into consideration: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept... the motion of the gene is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0089par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ▪ We continue the talks of Jobs to Be on the Special Agenda. On the grounds that İstanbul MP Hope Oran and 57 lawmakers, who have been placed in the 2nd place of this chapter, have been favouring members of media organizations who have tried to neutralize the opposition, block parliamentary control rights, and defame them, who have committed crimes by slandering the opposition, and that their actions have followed Turkish Penal Code Articles 114, 257, 283 and 311, we are starting talks on the Constitution's 100th and 100th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter Article 107, as well as the articles of the former Minister of Interior Efkan Ala (13/13). The meeting, respectively, will be promised to the first signator, or to another signator, three members on behalf of his people, and the Prime Minister or Minister, who has been asked to be investigated last. They've been talking for ten minutes. The parliamentary inquiry motion has been distributed to members of the Council's 77th Union, dated 16/03/2015. That's why I'm not re-reading the motion for investigation. I read the names of the MPs quoted on the motion: İstanbul MP Umut Oran; Haqkari MP Adil Zozani on behalf of individuals; Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. The former minister, former Interior Minister Efkan Ala, who has been asked to be investigated. Now, the first speaker of the motion is Istanbul MP Hope Oran. I call him to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0094par0014	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. It's April Fool's Day. In fact, April 1st is a harbinger of spring, but unfortunately Turkey is having a nightmare. I, like previous speakers, condemn the treasonous murder of Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz. My condolences to him and to the world of judgment and to his family. I condemn terrorism. Terror is a crime of humanity, and we all need to be discreet about these provocations. This act of terror, especially with sixty-six days before the election, is very compelling. Again, some hands want to confuse Turkey. I invite all of us to be discreet and careful. Besides, we had another incident yesterday. Yesterday, all of Turkey went dark, life became paralyzed, people were devastated, and there has yet to be a healthy statement from the government. We still don't know the reason for this blackout. There was a first time here, an unknown blackout, but Turkey shook up. And I'd like to offer this one more time to your attention. Back to the matter, we've filed a motion to investigate the former Home Secretary. The motion contains violations concerning many articles of the Turkish Penal Code. That's why I don't go into details. In this regard, I want to say that you should be sensitive to the subject. As a result, it is the gang of the Republic of Turkey and the state and the criminal organizations within the state and the state, and they are being tolerated. From time to time, Mr. President had statements, and he had some confessions. So we have to fight these gangs, and we have to do what we have to do about those who condone these gangs. Despite Mr. President's statements -- we've been cheated, we've been deceived. This is it -- these gangs are still at work, these gangs are still in charge of their duties, and they continue to fight against the democratic, parliamentary state of law in Turkey. Here, of course, if you're sincere about this, if you're uncomfortable about it, especially the ruling party deputies, then I expect you to accept our motion to reveal the truth. Congressmans, we're talking all the time, here's what we're saying: media is essential to democracy. For democracy to work, we need free, independent, neutral media. Especially since 2003, when we look at the media, we see a very serious change and transformation in the media. There used to be certain bosses in the media; there were certain, fundamental players in the media; they all stayed out of the game, and today some were pressured, some were intimidated, some were threatened, and there was a huge change in the media, unfortunately. This transformation in the media is actually a major operation, and media bosses in the media have been eliminated at work or contributed to the creation of media allies. Either you're on your side or you're being eliminated; that's what we're dealing with. When we call it the friendly media, we face a fact that we call it the pool media. And when we look at it here, I want to say this over and over again, this change in media, this change in media, when we look at this operation in the media, where does it lead? All roads lead to the palace. So if you say today, in Turkey, who has the greatest control over the media? This pool media has now become a center of lie production, producing various slanders, various insults, various threats, various targets, and by which they deceive and deceive the public. With a psychological operation, with perception management and black propaganda, this pool media becomes a lie-making center, a mud media. There was a media issue here last week, and that's when we put it out there. Where do they feed, where does this pool of water come from? So, how do you transfer public resources into this media or how do public contracts come into these media bosses, supporting bosses? I don't think about it much, we've already talked about it, and you know it. Of course, I'd like to point out that there have been recent attacks on the Republican People's Party; there have been attacks on the Republican People's Party, our President, our MPs and myself, and where are they coming from? There, under every stone, Ethem Sandzak rises. And I don't want to dwell too much on it here, but it's a matter of judgment. Ethem Sandzak is also the voice of its owner, who is also the watcher of the pool media, and continues to carry out those black propaganda with slanders, insults, threats, targets. Of course, when you look at it, I mean, I'm sorry, a member of your party, the manager of your party, and I don't have to say what you said about Erdogan. He's a close friend of Erdogan's and Mr. President's. So what we need to do here is to explain why this path has just gone up to Fivetepe. So why is all this allowed in a democracy, in a democratic state of law, and why are they allowed? Congressmans, if in one country the National Intelligence Agency, the Police General Directorate, is tagging 77 million citizens with detailed data analysis, the DEVA, with that program, then there's a problem. Again, in one country, the leader of the main opposition party will come out and operate on the Republican People's Party. If the MIT says that it is making such a report, then it must not be tolerated. If the head of the main opposition party in one country is being watched, lawmakers are being monitored, if they are being bugged, even if their breathing is being monitored, and if this cannot be stopped, if it is not given to an end, then this is a situation that must be considered. We have the right to ask and demand such questions from the legislature, from the High Assembly, from all parties here, from fellow lawmakers. I just told you, I told you, today's the Republican People's Party, tomorrow's Justice and Development Party. If we're talking about independent media, gangs ending, a clean, moral policy in the fight against these gangs, we should all fight together, and we shouldn't object to the establishment of this investigative commission. If we want the truth to come out, we need to go through this with courage. Even if they lead to a December 17th-25 corruption and bribery operation, we still have to go for it. Whoever's behind it is a politician, the media, the media, the bureaucrat, the intelligence, the intelligence, the police, the clean politics, the moral politics, we all have to do this investigation together and let the truth come out. Look, I just told you, December 17th or 25th, bribery and corruption have hit the world like a bomb, and the situation still hasn't been cleared up, and it's going to be cleared up. In this regard, among you, the AKP, your spokesman for power, your Deputy Prime Minister -- Mr. Bulent Arinc, Mr. Hussein Çelik -- have made new statements on this matter. So this is all one thing: we all have to fight for this clean policy. We have an election ahead of us, election security, election process. If we're saying we should do clean, moral politics, if we're sincere about fighting gangs, and we're going to fight the parliamentary state of law today -- whoever it is -- then we need to get this investigation commission processed. Who believes in clean politics -- this is the mess of the media pool just now -- I invite all my friends, let them be AKP people or all the other lawmakers, to support our motion, to say yes. In particular, fellow AKP MPs, you may be waiting April 7th to talk about it, the lists will be announced and so on, but let's all take the first step of clean politics here today. Yes, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0095par0031	Thank you, Mr. Oran. Adil Zozani for Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0096par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge from Republican People's Party MPs to form a parliamentary investigative commission. I salute you all. Of course, it's basically a Turkish thing -- it's a question of why lawmakers, political mechanisms, the execution mechanisms, the government doesn't intervene in the press, a demand is made, an accusation is made, and if a parliamentary inquiry is required for this, it's a situation that is unique to Turkey, and, frankly, it's a bit incompatible with the importance of today's situation, it's ironic. This could be perceived as an April Fools' Day joke. But as I'm about to give you, I'm going to try to show you that as far as I'm concerned, we're basically looking at a whole April Fool's joke. Now, in Turkey, they won't believe it if you tell the kids in elementary school that the press is free anymore, because that's not the case. In the time I've testified, as a friend of yours who's been a journalist for 20 or so years, and in the last four years, when there's been every situation here with the MP and the press, when something comes up, I can tell you that as a friend here, I can say that there's never been another period in Turkey where the press has been so repressed. Look, even when the briefing press was reporting on orders from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the National Security Council, there was no such recklessness. Look, I'm going to share with you the headlines of an article dated November 23, 2011. Firat News -- a news agency -- reported on November 23, 2011. Istanbul Security Directorate is the source of the story. This was a news from Istanbul Security Directorate to press organizations, public media organizations; it was prepared news, headlines and spotlights. Who were these newspapers? Zaman, New Dawn, Today, Star, Shock, Republic, Yanya, Sabah, Milliyet, Hurriyet, Haber Türk, Evening, Vatan and other newspapers. One by one, it's in the e-mail from Istanbul Security Directorate which of these newspapers will name which of these newspapers -- 23 November 2011 -- one by one. On 23 November 2011, the Firat news agency reached out to this e-mail, reached out to this news report, and, as of 8:30 p.m. -- I'm talking about November 23rd -- serving this news. And he says that tomorrow the newspapers that I'm referring to will come out with the following, the following, the Vatan newspaper, the next day, the daily Sabah, the evening newspaper, the Star newspaper, the Republic, Millriyet, Hurriyet, Haber Türk all came out with the headlines that the Fırat news agency predicted earlier that day, the first page that he predicted. What were the spotlights facing? What was the story about? It was a report from his operation on the TK press case that happened at that time. We're operating, you'll serve the operation with these headlines tomorrow. They've been instructed, and they're all from the big place. I'm going to go ahead, there's a section of them who've taken opposition positions there today, and they're doing opposition reports today, but on that day, they put the same news on the front page with instructions from the commissioner following the same instructions. Now, another head operation. How many newspapers? Morning -- same again -- Country, Star, Sun, New Dawn, Milat, Today's newspapers. On the same day, they all came out with the same title on their dots. What was it? He said, "Bring out a Moses. He will ask for his account." Here. This was another report of an operation: a Moses Takes out, Asks for His Account. (For those who are curious, enter into the newspaper of that day, enter into the archive, where you will see that the spotlights have been placed in the mode of genius mode, and the news sent with instructions is served. The famous Kababad thing... you all know about the Bluto thing, I don't need to repeat it. Today, lawmakers are coming out of the ruling party, and they say: "We were pushed that day, we were misled." The MP was misled, but can 11 columnists write a column in the same title? Two lawmakers sitting next to each other here, holding a pen, writing a sentence, there's always a difference of meaning somewhere, but 11 columnists from different newspapers put together the same headline about the Kabataş incident, and they all serve the same pattern and the same design. I'm going to call their names so that Turkey knows, and I'm going to read the title of one of them, and the rest of them are all the same, and I'm not going to repeat: your language is Rude, your conscience is Stone. The headlines of 11 columnists, 11 columnists of the pool media, are the same, all the same design. Who were they? Yasin Aktay, Merve Shebnem Oruç, Abdulkadir Selvi, Mahmut Övür, Halime Kokçe, Ahmet Kekeç, Kemal Özturk, Fuat Uğur, Arden Zenturk, Murat Çiçek. The columnists all came out with the same title. This is the headline of the morning paper, just to be clear. What's he saying? The attack on Badstone took place in 52 seconds. He said there were fifty-two seconds of video footage. How long has it been since that day? Somebody get out of here and make a statement. What happened to them when they were out of proportion? I'll give you one last example here. You know, Mr. President gave a speech at the United Nations General Assembly. It was basically empty at the time of the speech, and there was no one in the United Nations General Assembly. The headlines are out. Now, for everyone to learn from this, there is no personal problem, no hostility, with these writers, with the people whose name I mention. We discuss our ideas when we face each other at various times. The first page of the Star newspaper on that day was a newspaper expressed in the pool media: "He HURRYed to their Faces." They put a man on the United Nations General Assembly with "Fotoshop." This is the original photo. So, who's doing the story? Dear Mustafa Karaalioğlu. When dear Mustafa Karaalioglu lost his measure of injury that day, then there was a conflict between the President and the Prime Minister, and he was immediately expressed in the Brutus group, considering that he could find a place in the conflict. When? Just last week. That's what he became when he lost measure of injury. Yes, all the functions of the press... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...stuffed, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more press ethics in Turkey. It's really worth investigating, and it's really worth investigating because it's costing you all.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0097par0049	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0098par0053	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group following a motion to open a parliamentary investigation into former Interior Minister Efkan Ala. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, I ask for the mercy of Chief Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in the act of a terrorist organization at İstanbul Çağan Courthouse yesterday. I wish my condolences and patience to his family, to the judicial community and to the great Turkish nation. Armed terrorist organization in a Republican prosecutor's room on the 6th floor It is a serious security weakness to be taken hostage by members and martyred in the conflict. It's a scandal for activist terrorists to bring guns, bombs, banners, banners, and such rags into the courthouse and carry them to the 6th floor of the building. How did these people get into a prosecutor's office on the 6th floor of the courthouse with weapons and such material? Can you think of a state that can't protect a courthouse, a prosecutor? It is stated that there was a long dialogue with activists yesterday, a negotiation. How did these negotiations develop? How did these dialogues, created by means of means, result in such an event? How did the number of activists who were said to be 3 during the day fall to 2? What's the reason for the blackout with the ban on the incident? All these dark spots must be illuminated, those who show weakness in this matter must be identified, and those who are responsible must be punished. Yesterday's incident at the Falls Courthouse has shown once again that there are enormous weaknesses in Turkey at the point of securing intelligence and public order. Predicting the illegal formations, actions of terrorist organisations is an intelligence activity. The AKP governments, unfortunately, destroyed institutions that carried out intelligence activities. Other critical units, such as police intelligence and the Anti-COM and Anti-Terrorism, have been weakened under the name ▪ the fight against parallel construction. Intel specifically, personnel working in these critical units have been sentenced to total punishment and have been thrown out of these units. The AKP government is responsible for the December 17th-25th investigations. On December 17th-25, some members, including the government's then prime minister, have been exposed in connection with allegations of bribery and corruption; corruption and bribery have been exposed to the public. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan claimed that it was a coup attempt, that the information and documents revealed were montages and dublages, but said that they were parallelists, the information, the document, and even Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself said in the past year and a half that the December 17-25 investigations itself were not based on concrete data, that these allegations were based on concrete data, that they would be studied by an independent, impartial judiciary. Here, in December 17th and 25th investigations, the intelligence unit has been sacrificed along with other units of the Police for the perception that Recep Tayyip Erdogan was trying to create in society. Police intelligence, which performs preventive law enforcement services in areas where more than 90 per cent of our population have been sacrificed for Recep Tayyip Erdogan's perception operation, and a serious security weakness has been born in Turkey. In the units I mentioned, trained law enforcement personnel have been relieved of their duties and replaced by other officers. Those who have been carried out have been removed from their posts with the same label, others have been brought in, and they have been removed from office. So the AKP government has suspended those who are not willing to accept corruption and bribes, theft by framing them, until they find employees who are willing to accept corruption and bribes. That's why the police have become deaf in their eyes and ears. Units to ensure the safety of the community have been rendered ineffective for corruption and bribery. In this painting, Mr. Interior Minister AIa would have a lot to do with it. MIT is another world. The AKP is a registered intelligence agency. The claims that MIT has long been an intelligence officer of the AKP, not the state, are still in our memory. His claims about the opposition, his reference to AKP's mayoral candidates, his reports on people who want to do politics in the AKP have yet to be cleared. Former Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin claimed that the killer of our 18-year-old Serap Eser, who died on the bus burned in Küçükçekmecede, İstanbul, was an MIT employee. So, MIT is in the middle of this discussion. The AKP government, which has tried to transfer every bad event to parallel structure and make the parallel structure responsible, has not tied the incident to the parallel structure of both the MHP top executives and the head of the main opposition party. In both cases, intelligence units, particularly MIT, and the AKP government are indictees and are not cleared. Turkey's security policy and security system collapsed when we discussed this institution and events together. The Turkish state has been blinded and deafened by the ambition of the AKP. Today's table shows us that at this rate, we're likely to pay more than the price we pay. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister responsible for the preservation of constitutional order cannot be issued a non-law order on Article 137 of the Constitution. The charge cannot be given as a crime. He himself violated the ruling and prevented security forces from interfering with the terrorist organization. I don't know this Constitution for the Constitution, which gives him a seat in the Council of Ministers, which gives him a say in Parliament. He's gone so far as to say, "I don't know this Constitution." He broke the Constitution. Mr. Ala, during his period of work, the Ministry did not sign policies that were fighting terrorist organizations that violated public order, but rather supported the negotiating understandings. During this period, the AKP has allowed the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey to be abandoned to PKK terror organizations in certain geographys, at the point in which AKP called its betrayal. In this region, the PKK's terrorist organisation has achieved much more power than the AKP government took over in 2002. In 2002, the number of terrorists operating on Turkey's territory was zeroed out, while today hundreds of thousands were mentioned in terms of the number of 30, 40. PKK's terrorist organisation has established TK structures, which have established law enforcement teams, has conducted IDs and road checks, and has begun to conduct audits in public places. The terrorist organization has established a judicial system. The terrorist organization has established a so-called tax system with urban construction. The parallel structure thesis used to cover the December 17th-25th investigation by the Bulent Arinc-Melih Solar debate has collapsed. The AKP's claim of parallel construction is only a cover-up, a reason to cover up December 17th-25th investigations. And Arinc has expressed that the mayor of Ankara does not show the mayor of Ankara the hawk he has shown to the interior ministry of DP municipalities regarding the 100 cases to be released on June 8th. The Turkish Penal Code is indifferent to officials who have committed crimes in front of 77 million, covering up crimes, protecting criminals, and such as these. We've closed this issue in one sentence. It's another tragic thing to say. The AKP's parallel claim to end corruption, bribery and theft has collapsed. The files that were alleged to be 100 were mentioned, and the helmet fell and looked bald. This is not a situation to be closed with a statement from the Prime Minister. Mr. President, on February 28, 2015, in Dolmabahçe Palace, the 10 articles of treason were adopted by the PKK terrorist group's leader in Imralı. In this text, in the context of fancy headlines, terrorists will be pardoned, terrorist leader removed, terrorist organization and its subsidiaries will be transformed into NGOs; a constitutional amendment will be made for a multilingual, multi-national, multi-national, multi-flag Turkey. Together with the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ala, Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, Mr. Ünal posed for this agreement, just like those who signed the Mondros, Sevr. We believe it would be appropriate for the National Movement Party to open an investigation into the Turkish Criminal Code 311, 114, 257, 283. With these thoughts, I salute your grand delegation and the MPs of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0099par0078	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Kurskkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0082	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I ask for God's mercy to Mehmet Selim Kiraz, our prosecutor who died yesterday. I'm sorry for the loss of your people and your people. Here we are discussing the main number (9/13) for the opening of a parliamentary investigation of 11/3/2015. There was talk of Ethem Sandzak. I don't think it's right to hit someone who's vulnerable from the public's podium, who has no right to defend himself when the rights call is set, and I think it's unfair. In the motion, Mr. Hope Oran claims that an intensive smear campaign against him began as of February 17, 2015, and that it was intended for CHP rather than for MPs in parliament; he claims that this happened because he used the control action as an MP, because he had done his duty. In fact, the principle of innocence is that there is no illegal crime and punishment, and no one can be declared guilty unless there is a final conviction against you. So acquittal is fundamental, and everyone is equal to this universal rule of law. Despite all these provisions, much of what Mr. Oran had claimed had happened to us, both in travel park actions and in December 17th and 25th events, even in the Kobani actions, both in our government and in our party and in our parliament. We've already done empathy, we're doing it, and we're really trying to understand Mr. Oran, but we want Mr. Oran to understand us. Hence, we understand the need for call and claim sensitivity. We face conspiracies, slander campaigns every day, every day trying to clear ourselves. We're trained, experienced, vaccinated in fighting false slanders. But what was the status of the Republican People's Party in both the Travel Park and December 17th and 25th campaigns? Mr. Oran, weren't you the one who led these slander campaigns, supported, and recklessly attacked dozens of unproven victims? How right is it to just ask for justice, how innocent can it be? Weren't you the one who institutionalized the defamation, almost the triggerman of media organs? Wasn't it your party that made defamation an institutional institution? Wasn't the Republican People's Party group meeting hall where all the illegal evidence, copies, tapes were exposed? Yes, justice and law will be needed for everyone one day, just as you and we need it today, despite all of this, if you have to empathize with the slanders you claim to be coming to your party. As law-abiding AK PARTY, we also call upon you to defend your legal rights. If you're really facing a slander, if you're facing a psychological war, if that's really the case, you should know that we, the AK PARTY, are with you, but if that's the case. On the other hand, Turkey is a state of law, and you have the right to apply for legal means concerning allegations. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the parliamentary inquiry motion we've discussed as a result is based on Articles 114, 257, 311, Articles 100 and 107 of the Constitution. So it would have to be a legal infrastructure, and it would have to be a proposal that corresponds to the material truth, but when we examine the motion legally, we see that it's a completely procedural proposal that doesn't set its feet on the ground. The motion holders say in the first paragraph: "The Republican People's Party is being targeted directly through the Republican People's Party MPs. Some dark scenarios that are facing the future are being set up today, with imaginary Twitter correspondence making serious accusations against CHP. As we come to the fifth paragraph of the same motion, it gives the following warning: developments reflected on the agenda of the country and the world after the investigations of 17-25 December 2013 have been used effectively under the duties and responsibilities of the Constitution and the Interior Charter as a responsible parliamentary speaker. Is there such a contradiction? The slander campaign against you, there will be conspiracies, but you will do the same thing on December 17th and 25th, and here you are rebutting yourself. Again, this attack, seen as being directed at myself and CHP, is actually an attack on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our party. The MP's audit function, law enforcement and, therefore, the working procedures and foundations of the MP's mandate, are set in the Constitution and Parliamentary Interior Charter. To put law between the major duties and powers of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, it continues... to change. There's such a suggestion in the motion. Good. Well, for God's sake, when you're talking about the internal security law here, you can't come to the stand and call a group of 312 people, and we won't make you take the law out. Didn't you or did you not take over the parliament? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] That means that the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its MPs is fundamental, this bench is untouchable. So you say to a party of 312 people and Turkey's nation, with a vote of 1 out of 2 people, that gets 50 per cent of the vote: you can't make that law. Of course we make that law. Because the people have given us the authority to make laws, and you're already confirming that in the motion.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0101par0096	There's only the Constitution, and there's the Constitution. Did you also tear up the Constitution?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0097	And here, for God's sake, I'm reading, I want to get your attention, from the motion that the ruling media group is making a crime to prevent the opposition from doing its job, but I'm drawing attention to it -- it's not taking a single step against what's happening in front of everyone, it's ignoring the criminal. Didn't you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0102par0098	And what does Homeland Security law have to do with this?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0099	If you listen, you'll understand!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0102par0100	You don't know. What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0101	Don't give those powers to the administrative branch. Aren't you the one who called them? Now you're saying that the arming doesn't apply its authority.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0102par0102	You're making things worse.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0103	For God's sake, what's the law gonna do? He's going to confiscate the material the press has? Mr. Oran, is that what you mean?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0102par0104	You're lying, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0105	Confiscate material? What do you want him to do, violate the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of communication?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0103par0106	You're doing it!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0107	Take them into custody? Is that what you mean?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0103par0108	All this press is still inside.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0109	Since Mr. Secretary is not using his administrative supervision on the matter, you're also making a bet that Mr. Secretary should be punished. For God's sake, lawmakers, be aware of what you're saying, what you're writing.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0104par0110	You don't know anything, you don't know anything!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0111	This parliamentary investigation is a non-lawyal proposal, which I can't even say political, is simply, indiscriminately prepared.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0105par0112	The motions are political, sir, the motions are political; the Constitution says so.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0100par0113	Now, you say: "Let the authorities do their duty. " Right, let him do his duty. Is it possible to censor the press, access all its materials, all its buildings? Then where's the freedom of the press? AK PARTY has brought a barrier to freedom of communication, you will say. There can't be such a contradiction, and I think only Republican People's Party MPs can do that. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as I just said, have come up with a purely abstract, invasive motion to save the day. Therefore, I don't even find it right to argue with this motion. In spite of all of this, I offer the motion's rejection or acceptance to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0106par0116	Thank you, Mr. Can. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0118	Mr. Can has been taunting me about myself and about our party and about our group's motion. I'd like to answer to him, if I may.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0106par0119	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0123	First of all, I'd like to point out that as an MP of December 17-25, what did you say you wanted before? What did you say you called it after that? A structure that you declared an enemy after that; a structure that we have always criticized and criticized before.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0108par0124	Now you're together!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0125	There were a lot of cases, indictments, and they were in the media. As a member of an opposition party, as an executive, it is my duty to ask them, question them, so it is my constitutional and parliamentary duty. Why do you have to go through this? I'm not slandering you. I'm just making a question proposal, a research motion. Why are you criticizing me about him? I mean, it's my right to ask, and if you're in the main opposition, you're gonna ask, and so is yours. Look, in our motion for this investigation, this does not enter into the duties and powers of the Home Secretary that you're talking about, this -- I'm telling you about the paragraph you're reading, for efficient use of time -- there is an incident about what you call the duty of the judiciary: of course the media must be free, not to interfere with the media...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0109par0127	That's not what Gursel Tekin says.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0128	...we agree, but there's a public order and public safety situation. So, as a result, the Home Office needs to maintain public order and public safety. There have been allegations and slanders, and... look, I'm the victim of this, and you've supported that, and I want your support to be concrete.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0109par0129	What meeting?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0130	As a result, human life has become an issue, it's a matter of attempt on human life. The slanders and allegations about it... which we've disproved in the end. E, the MP here, as a result, can't do legislature activities. Mr. Home Secretary, of course, has to look into this, so where's he going to look? Human life is at stake, life is at stake, and there's defamation of the MP's main opposition party and the main opposition party's law enforcement activity is at stake here. The third issue: Look - Mr. Can has expressed again - of course, our primary duty here in the immunity of the bench is to serve the citizen, to solve the citizens' problems, to protect the citizens' lives and property safety. I don't want to slander anyone here in any way, but now, when you come to the scene about Ethhem Sandzak (Ethem) -- he's standing in front of the media -- from here, from media bombings to the main opposition party, from the general president, he's making such allegations, that the things that are going to damage the minds are about attempts at human life, and there are false accusations around here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0110par0132	Aydın Doğan media...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0133	Now, I'm not going to tell you this from here, but how am I going to tell you? And look, this person is going into the media. And as a reason to enter the media, I went in to serve Mr. President, I went in to not leave him alone, and I came in to defend him, he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, is this, like, independent, free media like this?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0110par0136	To whom does the media of Aydın Doğan serve?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0137	That's something else. We'll discuss that when he gets here. So if you're sincere about everything, we need to take a look at this, Mr. Can: So there's an investigation motion that you've come up with here, and you'll be wronged, slandered, insulted, and then we'll consider it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0111par0138	Thank you, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0139	But since you agree with me, if you agree with our party, let's take this fight together. There's no point in narrowing it down to personal. Do not make mischief therein. Besides, we're right, let's fight this together. You say...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0111par0140	Thank you, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0107par0141	...then let's not say anything, come, let's put together this motion of inquiry into action. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0111par0144	Thank you. Former Home Secretary Efkan Ala. Here you go, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0151	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation. I ask Allah's mercy to our prosecutor, Mr. Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in a vicious terrorist attack, to extend my condolences and patience to his family, to our nation and to our Parliament. I give my regards to his father, the counselor of strength. And I call upon his family with their strength, and I greet them with reverence for their strength. I strongly condemn the terrorist attacks on the Eagle County Agency and İstanbul Security Directorate. Dear MPs, there is no need to explain, of course, that in the next century, we need to stop altogether from creating a climate in which terrorism can feed, which is already known to be the world's number one problem. Dear lawmakers, Mr. President, of course in democracies, the rulings are subject to parliamentary control, they're given motions to investigate, and they're made up of them. Thankfully, the opposition has learned these things. But there are also sanctions for opposition in democracies. If an opposition party, for example, has lost a few elections, even if it loses an election, in advanced democracies, its governance is renewed, its president is renewed, its organization is renewed.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0113par0157	What's it to you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0158	But if he's lost a few elections, if we're in a developing democracy, at least it's expected to be renewed by now. Yeah, well, that's their business.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0113par0159	Do you fulfill your political responsibilities, do you have political morals?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0160	Three general elections, three local elections, two referendums, one president's lost the election, and an opposition is asking questions to the power that has won them all. Of course he will.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0114par0161	So we're not gonna ask?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0162	No, they will, of course, they will. I thank you because it gives us an opportunity, criticism strengthens us.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0114par0163	You'll have more to answer for.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0164	We consider the question asked an opportunity, not a threat. We'll give those questions a chance to tell our nation what we've done, tell our nation what we've done. But here's the interesting thing -- our Congressman Zozani told us -- it's really like an April Fool's joke because there's a motion, a motion to ask why I don't interfere with the press. Of course, it's quite difficult to explain it from our power, but when we come to power, we'll close these newspapers. There's nothing more natural than a party with a vice-president who says, "It's a motion." But we are a party that has internalized democracy, whose mental codes are not in the 1940s.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0115par0165	You and democracy, introspective! It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0166	And we, friends, defend freedom of the press, make it our duty to eliminate threats to freedom of the press. It's beneath us to experience political desertification in such a political drought. We sincerely hope that our main opposition party is a party that produces highly developed projects, works us hard with questions, and offers solutions to our nation's problems, because this is the way to contribute to our nation. But you're right, my dear friends: Why didn't I defend CHP, and why didn't I intervene? E, defend us too. You say. You're right, because we know how to defend ourselves. We defended democracy in 1960, 1971, 1980.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0116par0168	You weren't born then!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0117par0169	Us, you and 1960, huh?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0170	We defended our values on February 28th.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0118par0172	You weren't born in 1960, to the world.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0173	We're a movement. On April 27th, we announced what the people's will was by the government.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0118par0174	You weren't born in 1960, you weren't even a child, kid!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0119par0175	Get out of here, Efkan Ala!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0176	We defended the law in the 367 bullshit. We defended our party and our House in the closing case. We defended our government, our nation on December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0120par0177	Get to the point, Efkan Ala, get to the point.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0121par0178	You advocated theft, you advocated corruption, you defended dishonestness on December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0179	I mean, history is a witness, and you've learned it, and we know how to defend it. And we're kicking ass for those who don't know their place. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] And while we defend them, my dear friends, my friends, where were you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0122par0182	Where were you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0183	Where were you in 1960? Where were you on February 28th? Where were you on December 17th and 25th? Where were you on April 27th when we put the manifesto on the heads of those who gave it?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0123par0185	Did you? You put a medal around his neck. You didn't. You gave the manifestos a car, a medal.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0186	Now, my dear brothers, dear friends, dear MPs, of course we can't defend those who claim to be cooperating with those who are involved in secret, troubled affairs that would endanger our national security.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0124par0187	Efkan Ala, you are the greatest threat to national security, you!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0188	Well, we know them well, but it's a situation we can't defend. Why? E, because, look, you said that you were out of this country to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey: he's going out of the country. I don't want to use that word in quotes. What information did you say? What kind of focus did you say you were working with?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0124par0190	You'll go too!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0125par0191	Weren't they your comrades until yesterday?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0192	Your president said the same thing. How is that possible? What kind of dirty relationships result from that information that comes out and says something like that? It's not just anyone who's saying this, it's the officials of the main opposition party, the leader, the vice president. Then either he's lying, or he's getting that information from what source, and he's gonna come out and say it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0126par0194	You're the one who's lying. Liar!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0127par0195	People slapped them, slap them!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0196	My dear brothers and sisters, you have no idea in the box that people have given you a motion to set up an investigation commission.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0127par0197	People buried it in the trunk!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0128par0198	Let's see if you can get out of the trunk yourself! Because he's been appointed, appointed. Then you'll be chosen!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0199	What happens if you file an investigation motion, and you don't? We'll get it out of the way. Now, our AK PARTY is tough, but home is what we're gonna do for everybody, guys. Why? Because you, in 2002, took a bankrupt economy, a broken policy, a miserable social policy, you flattened it, and you served the nation, the country, you designed the government that set an example for our region, for the world, and you stood firm behind it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Well, now the opposition is asking for our help. Do good, we'll help. Then if you get in trouble, we'll be with you. But a word of advice, I've never come here empty-handed. Our friends from the precious opposition party, our MPs; I don't have a prescription, but I do have a recommendation, and my advice is:
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0129par0204	What dorms did you live in at the faculty? Whose dorm were you living in at the faculty?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0205	...to see Turkey in the top 10 developed countries, to create projects instead of dreams...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0129par0206	Whose dorm were you living in in?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0207	...turn into a constructive opposition, and to the nation...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0129par0208	Why don't you explain your college dorms?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0209	...to the land and to yourselves.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0129par0211	Explain your college dorms.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0112par0212	Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0214	Thank you, Mr. Ala.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0131par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0132par0216	Explain your college dorms, your dorms. Whose dorm did you stay in? What dorm did you go to?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0218	Congressmans, please be quiet and calm.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0132par0219	Let him make clear his dwelling-places. Whose abode is he in?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0220	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0133par0221	This man is not supposed to be in this House! The enemy of freedom!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0222	Mr. Ozturk, if you'll be quiet, I'll listen to Vice President Hamzacebi. I'd like to hear your request. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0134par0224	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke on the stand has made a mockery of our president and our group, I want to speak to you, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0135par0225	This man is the enemy of freedom, the enemy of democracy!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0226	Mr. Ozturk, please be quiet.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0135par0227	The enemy of freedom! Served the deep government...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0130par0228	Mr. Ozturk, please remain calm. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0232	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, that's what a human being would say if he came to where he didn't deserve it, if he came to perform a specific project.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0137par0234	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0138par0235	That's for people to appoint, people.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0236	Now, the man who was just speaking here, in a disrespectful manner, has made a mockery of our group.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0139par0237	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0238	When did he become Minister? After December 17th, he became Minister. Why was the Minister made, Mr. Minister?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0139par0239	He broke the game.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0240	The Minister was appointed to close the December 17th corruption, that's his whole mission.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0140par0241	To do the job.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0141par0242	He screwed up the game, the game.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0243	As long as there is history, you will be remembered for two things as Turkey's politics of today are written in the future. First of all, he is the Minister of the AKP (AKP) project to clear those who are involved in corruption in the Council of Ministers and those who protect those who are infected. The second is a minister who disrespects the Prophet.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0142par0244	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0143par0245	Not at all. Were you there, Mr. President? I was there.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0246	Dear lawmakers, now the vote on corruption against the four ministers would be held here. First of all, it was scheduled for Thursday or Friday before that vote, and we received information from the Justice and Development Party Group. Then the following week was postponed to Tuesday. Do you know why it was postponed?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0144par0247	Why was it postponed?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0248	Mr. Davutoglu postponed it for the day of Davos' meeting. He didn't want to vote no for those corruption files by staying here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0145par0249	Dream, dream, dream, dream!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0250	He didn't feel comfortable, he ran abroad. He just put that project guy in charge of this job, and you followed what the project guy said, and you voted no to those ministers.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0146par0251	You're in a fantasy world, come to reality, Mr. Hamzacebi, you're always in a fantasy world.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0252	Dear MPs, the Minister, who was just speaking here, spoke of something like those tools, fashions, the congregation, parallel structures. He was with them for 24 hours. You entered the mosque with them, and you prayed, and you prostrated, and then you returned, accusing him of being the parallel focus.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0146par0253	Why are you guys together?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0254	You're the parallel, you're the one who trashed this state, you're the one who ransacked this state, you're the one who destroyed all the institutions of this state, you're the one who framed the Turkish Armed Forces. Didn't you say that this state was framed? Who set this up? You set it up.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0146par0255	Now we're asking the people who set up the scam.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0256	Today you set up that plot with the Turkish Armed Forces, this state, as you call it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0146par0257	We're asking the people who set it up. Mr. Hamzacebi, let's ask together.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0136par0258	You're the government's project man who's laundering corruption, you're the Minister who's been created as a project of corruption.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0146par0260	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0147par0261	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0148par0262	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0147par0263	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0148par0264	Mr. Ala said I twisted things about me too, that I was wrong. I'd like to speak in accordance with the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0149par0265	The Prime Minister will escape. Is that what he said, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0150par0266	Who said, where did he hear it?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0149par0267	You're the one who said you couldn't see March 30? Shameless!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0150par0268	It's the wrong password!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0151par0269	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0271	First of all, we don't say that the press should ever be interfered with.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0153par0273	No way!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0154par0274	Look at the Vice President's statement.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0275	There are elements that threaten public order and public safety.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0154par0276	May God keep them in your hands.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0277	It is the Home Secretary's responsibility to maintain, protect, and protect public order. The Home Secretary can't stand by.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0155par0278	Be careful, Fuat Avni listens to you!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0279	The head of the main opposition party in one country will operate in the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0155par0280	Fuat Avni told you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0281	If the Republican People's Party, which has 15 million voters, is under operation by the pool media two months before the elections, the Interior Minister cannot stand by. If there is insanity, slanders, human lives, human dignity is being taken underfoot here; if lawmakers, the main opposition party's legislative activities are being blocked, the Interior Minister cannot stand by. Look, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ala, what kind of dirty relationships did you make, or did you make some statements? Yes, I left 10 days before March 30th, and in a press release, I said, "Allah God, 30 Martas are ten days away...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0155par0283	Fuat Avni told you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0284	I'm not... The country's Prime Minister bans a area with 36 million internet users. The election is in ten days. There's a problem here. Either that's when the Prime Minister lost control, or there's a reason, or there's a very important problem that the Prime Minister wants to keep it hidden, and he's bringing a ban on the Internet. Three, according to my polls -- then I'm looking at the polls that I have...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0155par0285	Just tell me what Fuat Avni said. Fuat Avni gave you the wrong information, you couldn't decipher it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0286	I saw the ruling party's votes coming down at the time -- so the power is going out and the Internet within 36 million is being shut down, and there's a problem here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0156par0287	Don't twist.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0288	If he sees this, he's going to lose his seat. Any one of you, sir, is parallel like you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0157par0289	I think Fuat Avni gave us the wrong information.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0290	I mean, you, Mr. Secretary, should be the last person you say anything to about this is Hope Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0158par0291	Yeah, address the General Assembly, address us.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0152par0292	I remind you of that once again. Please keep your mouth shut about this, and do not lose control. My Ataturkism, my republical sensibility, my six arrows are neither debatable nor controversial, it is your duty to bring it up, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0159par0296	Thank you, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0160par0297	Fuat Avni didn't believe it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0161par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0159par0299	Here you go. I'm sorry, he's asking for a lecture.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0162par0302	He can't talk, not the minister, not the congressman, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0163par0303	Mr. President, excuse me, on what basis do you promise? On what basis, Mr. President? He can't talk.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0164par0304	He can't talk.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0165par0305	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0166par0307	Mr. President, the reason he's here for the defense is because of the same bullying. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0167par0308	The Constitution has a sentence, not the Minister, but he can't speak, not the MP.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0168par0309	By what clause did you promise, Mr. President?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0169par0310	What are you accusing him of, he has no right to defend himself? Then why do you blame him, he has no right to defend himself?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0170par0311	You can't even stand the way he talks.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0171par0312	It's what they claim against human rights.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0172par0313	It's against the Civil Code, leave it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0173par0314	He has no right to defend himself?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0172par0315	You shut up.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0173par0316	Speak well, Group President, you're not cut out for you. You don't give him the right to defend, that's how you are.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0172par0317	Mr. President, he can't talk. You promised to speak for ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0174par0318	Mr. President, the Constitution, the Civil Code is open, and the ministry is expired, and he is now an ordinary citizen.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0172par0319	Article 69 is a right given to the MPs, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0175par0320	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment, please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0176par0321	If you could, you'd execute without a trial, that's your custom.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0177par0322	He can't take promises from bullying, Mr. President, he's given his right to defend himself. Since he's not a congressman...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0178par0323	It's part of the defense to take a stand for bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0179par0324	He has no right to make promises without bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0180par0325	Now, if you all speak out, there's no way you can say anything. Please remain calm, Mr. Former Minister came here, made his own defense.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0179par0326	Okay, it's over, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0180par0327	If he has the right to come to this stand and speak, he has the right to answer if he has to answer in any way, and if there's something in the form of taunting him, he has the right to stand on this stand and speak to him.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0181par0329	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0180par0330	Now...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0182par0331	No, he doesn't, sir. Mr. President, I'm going to start a formal discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0183par0333	There's a speaker on the stand, Mr. President. There's a speaker on the stand.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0334	Of course you can open it, you can open it, but...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0182par0335	Sure, I'll open it, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0336	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ala will you please...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0185par0338	No, Mr. President, please make his speech, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0339	Please...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0185par0340	No, sir, please have him speak on the stand.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0341	Please do not interfere, please. You have no right to pressure me on how to run it. In the matter of the Civil Code... it's very clear and very clear, and I beg you very much.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0186par0342	You invited him to the stand.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0343	Now, lawmakers, the Civil Code is very clear. I called him to the stand, but our friends, the lawmakers, said it was against the rules. The Civil Code is the chief's decree...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0187par0344	You gave in to the pressure.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0345	Congressman, listen carefully to what I have to say: The Civil Code is a decree of the Commander-in-Chief that if there is a request for a formal debate on the President's position, it will be carried out immediately. Open it and read it. So, Mr. Ala, I would like to invite you to your place, to open the discussion of the procedure. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0188par0348	Against you...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0349	Against you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0189par0350	Against...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0351	Against Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0190par0352	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0353	Mahir Ünal on the side.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0191par0354	Lehte...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0355	Lehte Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0192par0356	He's a man of the deep government! He's the deep government!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0193par0357	Scream, shout, scream, and you'll be on the list!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0184par0358	Mr. Ünal, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0194par0362	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are, of course, the basis for compliance with the Civil Code. But I want to highlight one thing here: since four years ago, I've been a parliamentary speaker here, and since Mr Kemal Kılıçdaroglu became CHP Chairman, we've been experiencing something in this Parliament: a crisis of legitimacy in every issue; a crisis of justice, who sees the judiciary as illegitimate; a military, security, army, every area he does not run; in his own issues, if one of them supports his claims, they don't speak of it; but in other matters, they're working on the right of resistance, from the street, who talks about mutiny, who betrays democracy only when the CHP wins elections; when he sees democracy as democracy as a democracy, when he doesn't get elected; in other ways, the people's own will, the self-prosecutorator, they've been working on its policies today. This isn't politics! Look, we had a very painful incident yesterday. We've had the result of a language that's been calling for the streets for days, anti-resisting, talking about resistance rights, not legitimizing the judiciary, and using a language that's been in the words of the DHKP-C (e.g. DHKP).
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0195par0364	You mean that by believing?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0196par0365	Who used this language, Mr. Ünal?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0194par0366	From now on, we want to see a Republican People's Party that respects democracy, democracy, law, Civil Law, democracy and politics. This is the basic right of the free citizens of this country. As for the minister's right to speak: the right to defend is sacred, and if he has the right to come to this stand and speak, he has the right to respond to the taunt made about him in the same combination. Unlike that, there is no statement or statement found in the Civil Code. That the Minister can't speak There is no expression about it in the Civil Charter. Mr. Secretary, who has the right to defend himself here, has the right to respond to the bullying he's been subjected to. The right to answer is as sacred as the sanctity of his right to defend himself because of his taunting. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0197par0371	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Against Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0198par0373	The answer to the conversation is part of the defense.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0197par0374	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0199par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't understand the anger of Mr. Ünal. He always reminds us of the Civil Charter. But he says that the Commission is the Minister, the MPs. At the moment, Mr. Alan has no duties.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0200par0377	In what capacity are you investigating here? In what capacity are you investigating, Minister?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0201par0378	Why did you give him the gene?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0202par0379	Why are you making an investigation?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0203par0380	Well done, read it, read it, read it, read it without shouting, it has nothing to do with you. You can't give the minister who doesn't know the law, who doesn't know the Constitution, and you can't give the law that isn't here, and you can't give the right that isn't in the Civil Code. He has made his case; he does not know the Constitution; he does not know the Civil Law; he should not even be defended here. What's that, sir? There's, uh, there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... I mean, he doesn't know the Civil Code, he doesn't know the Constitution.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0202par0381	Koray Aydın...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0203par0382	Mr. Arinc is here; look, Mr. Arinc is here... and you're Minister of the Interior, he says there's a hundred files. How many investigations have you launched about Melih Gökçek? Without saying that, sir, what a beautiful memory, what a forward democracy.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0204par0383	Do you have a memory problem?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0205par0384	Memory problem, memory.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0206par0385	Why do you bother?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0386	What democracy? You get up to the governors, you give them jurisdiction beyond law enforcement, you get the prosecutor's authority, you become an architect, and then you stand here as an architect, and then you get up here and you have a right to democracy, a right to defend...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0208par0387	What did Koray Aydın do?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0388	What is the current adjective of Mr. Ala?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0209par0389	Minister.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0390	He's running for congressman. There's nothing else. He made his case. If you set up the commission, look, if you set up the investigation commission, he'll come in there, he'll testify again, and you'll use those same powers...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0210par0391	Steady, consistent!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0392	...he'll testify there himself, then he'll have his right to defend himself. Why are you fighting? My rule is, let him come here and defend himself.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0211par0393	Mr. Günal, what did Koray Aydın do?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0394	Dear friends, what is not in the law, what is not in the Civil Code, you cannot do here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0211par0395	Mr. Günal, Koray Aydın...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0212par0396	You don't know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0397	You don't even apply what happened in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0213par0398	Didn't you submit the motion in the form of a minister? The motion is given in the form of a minister, and he defends as a minister.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0399	How many times have you pierced the 35th article, the 87th article? So, it says here...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0213par0400	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0401	Don't shout, don't shout, if I scream, it makes more noise, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0214par0402	What did Koray Aydın do?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0207par0403	You can't give away something that's not in the law. He doesn't know the law, he doesn't know the Constitution. And here, beyond your rights in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0215par0404	In what capacity was the motion to investigate?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0216par0405	You gave it to him in the form of a minister.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0217par0406	There's no such discrepancy!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0218par0407	One of you guys go out there and say it, where does it say it? Is there such a thing as a former minister who comes here and defends himself? No.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0219par0408	Koray was given to Aydın.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0218par0409	Koray Aydın entered the commission and was exonerated. Let the commission of the board come with him, and let's set it up, and let's get the delegation out of here, if they can be cleared, then let's bring him in, and he'll plead. He's responding to it. Look, when you set up the commission, the Civil Code is responding to an examination of these.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0220par0410	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0218par0411	You set it up, he comes in, he answers, he defends as much as he wants. But right now, Mr. Efkan Ala is the former Minister of Justice and Development, and he's only a candidate for the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0221par0412	In what capacity was the motion to investigate?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0220par0413	It was given in the form of Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0218par0414	He's made his plea, but other than that, you can talk, Mr. Commission can talk, the ministers can talk, but I'm saying Efkan Ala can't talk like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0222par0416	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0223par0417	That's a shame!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0224par0418	It wouldn't be so inconsistencies.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0225par0419	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0422	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0227par0423	Mr. President, you promised one person in each group.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0424	Mr. President, the former Home Secretary has used the right to defend himself in the Civil Code under his defense here. I don't think it's right to promise him a promise again, especially when it comes to bullying. I made a promise in favor of it, but I will express my thoughts against it because Article 69 of the Civil Code has authorized the commission, the minister, or the concerned MP, the government. I don't think it's right for the Minister to take another stand here. I don't know what he's going to say, even if Mr. Secretary gets the word, because Mr. Secretary hasn't responded to any of the issues involved in the motion to investigate. Mr. Secretary, here, they talked about the 40s, 60s, 80s, like these TV shows, the 80s, the 90s, they told the story here...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0228par0426	Hasan Hussein, are the coups a story? Oh, come on! What a shame!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0427	...they performed a performance here to get our friends from the Justice and Development Party behind them, so they could consolidate them.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0228par0428	Come on, Hasan Hussein! Hasan Hussein, are the coups coming to a story? Don't act! What a shame!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0429	But we'd expect information on issues related to the motion to investigate. In fact, he made a very obvious mistake in doing his show. On April 27th, we put the manuscript on his head. He said, "Mr. Minister's memory -- my colleague -- is actually good, but he should remember that, but...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0229par0430	He was involved when he became a minister.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0431	The general, who wrote the declaration of April 27, was awarded a state medal of pride seven or eight days after that declaration.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0230par0432	Everybody knows what happened, everybody knows.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0433	Then he assigned an armored car worth over $2 million, which was worth 1 trillion and 200 billion that day, I'm guessing, the Justice and Development Party government. So, the cooperation with the general who gave that note has been compromised. Now, when this Minister was Minister of Interior, he himself had stated that he had controlled the specific area in which the PKK had established public order; he himself had expressed that they had failed to carry out their duties and committed crimes concerning the mayors of Cizre and Diyarbakır. If you remember this dialogue, which Mr. Arinc entered with Melih Gökçek, you know that the 100 files on the subject, if you think about the investigation -- that he did not open those investigations during his ministry, that he neglected his duty by Arinc because he did not investigate the alleged crimes committed by Mehih Gökçek, that he concealed the crime, that his alleged possession of the criminal was quite valid, and that he did not do so in his defence here. Mr. Secretary, I think he described Mecca's conquerors as arrogant, out of line. Mr. Secretary, I'm guessing that he was strangled with arrogance, and on June 7th, if he returns to bureaucracy after that, he'll make him a dead man in his bureaucratic life.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0231par0437	I'll see you at 8.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0232par0438	We'll see about June 7th.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0439	I salute you all.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0233par0441	Hasan Hussein, you called the coups the story; it never happened, it was wrong.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0442	Shuay, come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0234par0443	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0233par0444	From September 12th, the most economists were damaged. You called the coups a story! Isn't that rude? Don't do this.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0226par0445	You make love to a parallel, and then you come and talk to me here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0234par0446	Against Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0235par0449	Mr. President, Congressmans, Mr. Mahir Ünal is here first...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0236par0450	You called the blows a story here! And it's all in the transcripts, come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0237par0451	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0238par0452	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0236par0453	You called the blows a story here! Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0237par0454	Your work is here...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0236par0455	From September 12th, the most economists were damaged.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0237par0456	What you said today is something else tomorrow. You're full of lies.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0457	He said something, and I want to answer it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0237par0458	You're the one who put the medal on the coupger.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0459	Mr. Mahir Ünal, I've been in Parliament for four years. Since Mr Kemal Kilicdaroğlu's presidency, the Republican People's Party has opposed everything, opening up a discussion of procedure. He said something. Mr. Ünal, for one thing, this sentence -- I mean, since we're acting group presidents -- is conflicted in itself.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0461	Why?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0462	So since Mr. Kilicdaroglu became Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0463	President General...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0464	You weren't in Parliament when Mr. Kilicdaroglu was President. You came in 2011, so how do you know your priorities?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0466	Sir, I mean the last four years.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0467	Leave him alone!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0468	I mean the last four years.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0469	You've been in the House for four years and you've known it for four years.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0470	I'm talking about the time I testified, the time I testified.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0471	Leave it, leave it, leave it! People don't buy it, people don't buy it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0240par0472	I'm talking about my own testimony.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0473	Don't try to take power from there by going to the DHKP-C attack in Istanbul, you won't find anything there, you won't get any bread from there. Now, the esteemed MPs, the former Interior Minister speaking on the stand, are not currently the minister, nor is he the MP. The 69th article of the Civil Charter is open; who can come up here again? He could be the one who's being bullied. Mr. President didn't tell him what substance he promised him, but he may have promised him because of the 69th article, because he only arranges the 69th article. Article 69 says that the government, the commission, the political party group, or lawmakers, who have a different opinion on whether or not he has been bullied or asserted to the witness, can and may answer. He has made his ten-minute plea concerning the motion to investigate him, and he will not be able to come up here again. It's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0241par0475	Is there such a thing? What court is this?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0476	But I'm not surprised, of course, that since he is a minister who does not know the Constitution, he will, of course, demand to take a stand and not recognize the Civil Code. And Mr. President will give him his word out of respect for his right to defend himself. I don't know the Constitution. It's not the Minister. I don't know him, I don't know him. (HPP) The struggle against democracy, rights, law, freedom, coups does not suit the Minister, nor does it suit him.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0242par0478	You're making up your own mind!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0479	A man who doesn't answer questions. Our party spokesman has made a statement: a unit of four has been formed in Yenimahalle, an illegal unit, about to organize the Republican People's Party. I brought it up here earlier, and he was sitting there, looking at his face. She didn't say anything either. Why are you looking at me when you say that?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0243par0481	He didn't get a call, he didn't get an answer!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0239par0482	A minister is the liaison of this unit to the palace, for illegal operations. He's an illegal minister.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0244par0484	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0245par0485	The government is ruled by facts, not stories.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0246par0486	Mr. President, Mr. President, he can't sit there.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0247par0487	Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0248par0488	Mr. Sky, what is your request?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0247par0489	Mr. President, in light of these discussions...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0249par0490	That person needs to be defended and taken out, and he can't sit there. Not the Minister, not the Minister, but he should be taken out, if necessary.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0248par0491	Wait a minute, lawmakers, calm down, don't get excited.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0247par0492	Efkan Ala has just made his defense. At the moment, the Council of Ministers cannot sit in their seats or be found in this hall. You must invite him out. He's not one of those people who's going to be in the General Assembly lounge right now. He's made his defense, he's got to get out, he's got to get himself out.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0250par0493	It's not done yet.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0251par0494	Mr. President, the procedure has not been completed. Since the procedure has not been completed, Mr. Secretary can sit there because the investigation has been submitted as Minister of Investigation.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0252par0495	No, he'll be called back if he has to.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0253par0496	The Civil Code says 166 is clear.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0497	Now, since we haven't finished the vote...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0498	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to read the 166th article of the Civil Code: the General Assembly Hall and the commissioner's chambers.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0499	So now the Civil Code 166 is not something to apply here, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0500	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0501	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0502	Sir, we express these things and object to the Minister's presence here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0256par0503	People don't give it a chance. They can't even stand the Minister sitting there.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0504	Now, look...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0505	You'll have to call in the chiefs.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0506	Congressmans, please... let's have a little more common sense. I'm telling you right now, my personal opinion is as I've already pointed out, because if you're calling -- we can call an old minister here for an investigation -- and if he can come in here and make a speech about it, my personal opinion is that he has the right to respond to it. But we also have to work according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0508	Of course, 166 is very clear.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0509	Since we are going to work in accordance with this Civil Charter, this issue is not clearly stated here. There's a fiction on lawmakers and MPs who are commissioners because they haven't been made public. It's clear that a former minister, who was not called in to investigate, would benefit from such a right, which is not clear. That's why I'm following the Civil Code, and I'm saying that the negotiations on the Capitol investigation are complete.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0255par0510	Mr. President, the Council of Ministers is different, that's different.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0257par0511	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0515	Now, I'm going to submit to your votes whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation into the former Home Secretary, Mr. Efkan Ala. The vote will be held in secret. Before we start voting, I'm going to make some statements about the method of voting. I propose how the secret vote will be conducted. But let me point out that according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0258par0517	Then you need to get this thing out. Now, you need to get him out before the vote.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0518	Now, again, I'm not going to get a power of attorney to vote, which is what I said earlier in the mergers.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0259par0519	Mr. President, get Efkan Ala out of here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0258par0520	Mayor, you need to get him out now.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit03spe0254par0521	Now, members of lawmakers, please, that will be fulfilled, so let me finish this, please calm down. From the clerk members of the Commission and the government at the time of the commission to Adana, including Denizli -- including Denizli -- and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul -- including Istanbul -- including Istanbul -- the clerk from İzmir to Mardin, starting with Mardin -- and from Mersin to Zonguldak -- to Zonguldak -- he will give the letter to the MPs, including one of them, one of them white, one of them green, one of them red stamps, three round stamps, and a letter of the letter of the letter and the letter of the letter. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. As you know, one of these stamps is the white one, the red one is the rejection, and the green one is the abstention vote. I'll start the vote, sir. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any lawmakers who don't use the game? No. The voting process is over. Cups off. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament (9/13) is the result of a secret vote by the Council on opening a parliamentary investigation into former Interior Minister Efkan Ala: ▪ Number of votes used: 291 Wish Rise Mine Lök White So the investigation of the House was not approved. It's 21 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0254par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks from the 3rd place of the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the Military Judges' Law and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş and 8 MPs, who will be ranked in the 5th place, as well as with the Law Law Law, Law Law Law and the Law Commission Report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 704 rows. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan wants to speak on behalf of the group on behalf of the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0260par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. The Law Proposal No. 704 actually envisions an arrangement in the Supreme Court. Opposition has always been prudent in useful matters. We're being discreet about it, but is that really the problem with the judiciary, so that's what it's going to be? Now, when we read this reason over here, it's very legal, very philosophical, something that we can all sign under: ▪ According to the Constitution, material 141, IV. The lack of department-justice services, late functioning, or misbehavior, causes social order and peace to break down. Yes, that's what Turkey is living in right now. Not only that, therefore, justice is not justice when it comes to it. If the judiciary is not independent in a country, if the courts are not impartial, if they can't make a reasonable trial in a reasonable time, if they can't make a reasonable time to judge the equality of weapons, the equality of argument and defence; if their witnesses can't place proper evidence, and justice can't function according to the universal laws of the legal state, then there is already a problem justice system. Now, after the changes made in the HSYK, after all the trials, after all the trials that have been done, after the legal reform has prevented lawyers from examining the file document, after the change in the CMC has been established, after the security package and the prosecutors' duties have been transferred to governors and boards, so that package, that law, what it says, what it does, what it does, what it does, what it does, what it does. Now, of course, there was a bad incident yesterday, a real tragedy, but it's not a single shred of lessons in the name of the law, in the name of the independent judiciary. Given the tragedy, the president's statements that put lawyers on target are shocking and upsetting. What kind of independent judgment is that by excluding the defense of the trilateral rule of justice, someone has to tell me. So when the President reads a poem, if he had not been defended by his attorneys in the extraordinary court in Diyarbakır DGM, we would have said, "Yes, the right to defend is unnecessary. The language of the lawyers must be cut off," he said, despite his defenses, the punishment he received in that extraordinary court, the fall of the mayorate, and the fact that he was in prison in Pınarhisar. We live in the 21st century, it doesn't deserve 78 million, our people in Turkey, our citizens. Now, here's a General Assembly procedure on the responsibility of members of the Supreme Court, aimed at accelerating it into apartments, preliminary examinations. Look, I'll tell you this: when there was an experienced, academic-sided lawyer and 2005 Turkish Penal Code, CMK reform, there was the European Union process, there was the accession process. In fact, we should thank the government before him and the coalition times here because 17 articles were changed in the Constitution during the coalition of the deceased Ecevit, one of which was related to independent judiciary. Now, when the National Programme of the European Union was introduced, there were also very important points. One of them was forensic law enforcement, guys. Now, I want to tell you about the importance of this legal law enforcement incident through yesterday's painful incident, through the responsibility of everyone in Congress as politicians. Well, that's nice, but when you have these big courts, you know, the largest courthouse in Europe -- they've been built with European Union funds -- these buildings, like the AVM, concrete, iron, and glass, but I'm afraid about how this works -- the criminal courts are there, the execution courts are there, the family courts are there, they're all there in a mess. We've been discussing a case called legal law enforcement, and we've always talked about it because it's mandatory for an independent court of law. We spoke as lawyers, we spoke in the bar, we came here, we spoke in the House. Unfortunately, from 2005 to 2015, no regulations have been made or implemented, my friends. What happened when it didn't work out? They put the state's official police at the gates of these large courts, such as the mall, and then, 7-8 times inside, and on each floor, take care of the private security guards, be careful, they're assigned to private security. I mean, private security people work for their companies. I mean, there's justice commissions, there's prosecutors in court, they don't work for them. The police do not work under judges or prosecutors or lawyers or a joint committee. Where does he work? He's with the Department of Security, he's with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That's already been removed after this security package. Now, with this security package going into police configuration... There was something about the judicial law enforcement in December 17th: the police there are investigating the Minister, the Minister doesn't know, the Minister doesn't know, the prosecutors don't know. A regulation on this has been held, and this regulation has been annulled as a result of the Istanbul Bar trial. And what did the prosecutors say at the time? I'm telling you exactly what the prosecutors said, remember this: they made us a police officer. All prosecutors said so. They were turning prosecutors into police officers with the A.D.A. Act. They didn't just turn prosecutors into cops, they put security package and prosecutors under police orders, people. This package passed through here. Look out! With the security package, prosecutors were bypassed, their powers were given to governors and governors. I mean, even the police department has been seen, the prosecution has been so bypassed at the courthouse. So, what did the judges say? The only word the judges said about the judicial arm was: "Adli has been brought to serve, to serve, to serve. " Now, that's what the prosecutor says, that's what the judge says, his lawyer's already against it. Now, do you guys know who's in charge of the security of these courthouses in this system? I'm speaking to my fellow legalists: I mean, there's no security in the courts, there's no security in the courthouse, there's no lawyer, there's no judge, there's no prosecutor, there's no prosecutor, there's no defendant, there's no trial without arrest, there's no arrest. Now, when you bring in a system like this and you put it in, what can you solve when this system is causing problems that are open to provocation every day? There's nothing to figure out here. If you don't deal with the system, the system will fail you, and it will continue to malfunction. Security was lost in the courts, where there was an independent judiciary; not only was yesterday a painful incident, but prior to that, the mafia accounts took place in these courts; many people were shot, turned into reckoning sites; scenes where victims and associates were beaten. What about the safety of this? Who's doing the security on this? No. So, what's the solution? No one's saying the right thing about it; cursing, stringing, condemning doesn't solve anything, my friends. I'm telling you, this system needs to change. If you want the independent judiciary's own assurance, its own free functioning, the independence of the judiciary, you have to bring in a system that will do what the prosecutor will in the judicial system, which will carry out the court's decision, which will be studied by the lawyer's request. When you don't bring this, you'll experience the humiliation of extraordinary courts every day. Yesterday there was a sledgehammer case, the officers who served five years, the generals who were acquitted, and now they're coming out, they're saying punish them. Now, we have a very clear situation here, folks. There's no point in mixing administrative law enforcement with forensic law enforcement, when you mix it up, there's a lot of serious problems. We also want to make this clear: Is there any police involvement in the incident that took place in the falls yesterday? No. Is there any interference from private security there? No. Special Ops was called in. They said, "Who's running it?" No. Then the TEM branch intervened. They said. And now, friends, if such a system exists in such a large court, what will you solve? In order for this to be resolved, trust is needed in the courts, trust is needed in the courthouses. Now, you're going to say, is that possible? Yes, it's possible. We've seen, while I've been working in international law, I've been to high-crime courts in many countries. Those high-incarceration courts had different entrances. A judge, a prosecutor and a lawyer entered through an entrance door. The judge would pass through the X-ray device without distinction between the prosecutor and the lawyer, and when the device beeped, he would search the bag. Not above the judge, not above the prosecutor, not above the prosecutor, not above the lawyer, not above the lawyer, not from the prosecutor, not from the judge. If you don't set this up, both the judge and the prosecutor and the lawyer will come through that door. Besides, private security is already going in armed, police are already going in armed, there are thousands of staff working there. Now, what can you control in those giant courthouses, inside the big buildings? You can't. Now, once in high criminal courts, the elevator where prisoners are brought in is separate, taken from one section to the defendant's section. Witnesses are being taken from a separate section. The press is being removed from a separate department, and when these are taken, the officers take them in, leave them, and serve in their positions. The judge is ahead; the prosecutor and the lawyer sit side by side on an equal level, without a carpenter's fault, because that's the equality of the argument and the defense. As a lawyer, we've always talked about the inequality of the defense; our weapons are not equal; the prosecutors have all the authority. Now, what are we gonna say, lawyers? The right of defense is sacred; so says the contract, according to the 90th article of the Constitution, the European Court of Human Rights. We can't solve anything by saying that. Now, the carpenter's mistake has turned into a mechanical error. The governors and the governors take the place of the prosecutors, they give the orders, they give the orders, they give the orders, and they protect the security officers who commit crimes by order, no matter where they are, wherever they are, the governors and the governors must now protect, protect, and exonerate them, because when one of them is convicted, the governor and the governor who gives the order and the governor will come in as the enforcer of the same crime. Look, no matter what case you look at during the travel events or social events or in the southeast, if the perpetrator is a security guard, the case goes into exile: a case goes to Kayseri, a case goes to Eskişehir, a case goes to İzmir. We're talking about a government that doesn't have security all over this country. Ankara is taking the case in Eskişehir, sending it to Kayseri, sending it to Eskişehir for security reasons. Now, we're talking about a judicial mechanism with all these serious problems. The right to a fair trial in this judicial mechanism, the right to an independent port, is a very serious problem, a systemic problem. You can bring as many pressure packs as you want called the "reform package" as you want, which can protect you today, this year, a year, maybe two years, but because they have no universal rule of law, they get worn out and abandoned quickly, and these laws are lifted, but when you don't establish the basis, you can't make the independent judiciary as quickly as you want, you can get into the effort to remove judgment, remove bureaucracy, and you can't bring any solutions. The biggest problem of Turkey right now is injustice, my friends, and I confess very openly here. As a friend of yours who worked as a criminal lawyer for 30 years, as a friend of yours who worked in international law for 25 years, right now the judiciary is paralyzed in Turkey, paralyzed, inoperable. Can you imagine, government, the EC PARTY has made the choice of at least 12 Supreme Court judges for 12 years, and he doesn't trust the judges he chooses? The same has happened with judges selected for HSYK. The parallelist said to the people they walked with yesterday, the people they were in business with. This time, the HSYK change reached elections by agreeing with the opposition, creating mixed lists and administrations. None of this is the answer. The solution is to establish a system that will apply the European Convention on Human Rights, which will ensure this fair trial in universal law. When we don't build this system, there's no social peace, friends. Where there's no peace of society, there's no trust, democracy doesn't grow where there's no trust, a suitable climate, a suitable environment for democracy to flourish. Election season's coming up, it's two months away, so in this two-month election period, everyone can go out and use the smallest thing as a propaganda tool, but even that would damage the judiciary's independence. You can rely on the forces at your command today, you're in power, but when you lose power on June 7th, you have to think about who will be at your disposal. I don't want to think about it, I don't want to think about it politically, that anyone's going to have a vendetta against anyone. You have become very, very, very quarrelsome with the congregation where you walk together as ruling. We don't know what these cases are going to be, but if there's an independent trial, innocent people don't age with the Founder, they're exonerated by their own innocence. We're dealing with a very serious situation here. On the way to the elections, there will be a problem of election safety, a climate for provocations, times of trouble in the process of resolving. In all these matters, there is a duty to the House; its first task is to establish independent judiciary in this country. There's only one port for everyone to take refuge in, and that's independent judgment. Yours truly.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0261par0048	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. İstanbul MP Murat Basesgioğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0262par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action for Law Proposal 704. I hereby salute your high council. At the very beginning of my words, dear MPs, I ask God's mercy to our prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who was killed in the State's Courthouse, and my condolences to his family, to our judicial community, and to our nation. It's really a case that needs all sorts of research. Our security units, of course, have to observe the martyrdom of a republican prosecutor who served as justice in Turkey's largest courthouse in broad daylight and who had just been assigned to the investigation two months ago, and in this regard, I would like to say that our society and our party will follow the case with great care. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the offer we're talking about, it's more of a technical proposition. An arrangement in the Supreme Court aimed at preventing time from being wasted due to the duty and work division discrepancies between the legal agencies; this is Article 1. Another clause is the two amendments to the Supreme Court's General Assembly, which regulates the appeal of compensation cases against the Supreme Court members instead of the Supreme Court's General Assembly, which we don't object to. I wish you the best of luck with these changes. Hopefully, our Supreme Court can carry out this waste of time and the reasonable end of cases in a reasonable amount of time, but the number of members has increased, the number of cases have increased, and there's going to be problems in a large, enormous Supreme Court, with no precedent anywhere in the world. The Supreme Court often seeks to correct these problems within itself by resorting to the judiciary. The main mission we want to see in the Supreme Court is to have a court of law. For this reason, it is the immediate effect of the court of law which has been issued in Turkey. Again, I wish these changes well and wish them well. On a painful day like this, of course, there's a lot to talk about, but I'm hoping we'll have those conversations in some other environment. Dear lawmakers, this is the end of the Fifth Legislative Year. A lot of our friends have friends who say they're not running for Congress, they're running for office, they're saying they're not. I wish this process to all, to our fellow MPs, to those who are not, to those who are not, to the best of our parties, to Turkish politics. Politics is a very difficult career, a career a politician earns with his fingernails and his sweat. For him, all our friends' efforts are respectable, and I think it's a debt of gratitude for all their service, and I believe that this respectable career should not be damaged by such small things. After I say this, I'd like to express that we're facing a situation where we're going to make a determination. At the end of the period, what kind of activity did we do as a legislator in this four-year period, as an opposition, how did we evaluate this process as power? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you my views and findings on this matter. The first is about the legislature that we're in, which we're honored to be members of. Our legislature is an independent, self-employment, autonomy within the principle of dissolution of forces, an important establishment of our government roof. It is required that the legislature be independent against other forces, not influenced by the administration, and that its relations with the judiciary be based on democratic countries. So, when we look at this last four years of practice performance, has the legislature acted independently of the government? No, honestly, the legislature is on the initiative of running it. For example, let's not take it from anyone else, maybe they'll get hurt... there was an offer of law here last night about colleges. We had an offer, too, that the Kastamonu Candar boys were in need of a resupply for the establishment of the University of Health Sciences. Who do I normally meet? I need to speak to the concerned minister and the Commissioner. I also spoke to them, but I spoke to Doğan Bey. If Mr. Doğan had said yes to this new clause, Mr. Secretary and the Commission would have said yes.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0263par0060	Uh, no, that's not the heir to the Justice Commission.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0262par0061	I didn't say it for justice. Therefore the men of Kastamon shall not forget him. I hope you'll come back next semester, and maybe our new friends will repeat those words to you. I mean, no offense here, Mr. Doğan is a dear brother, but I want to tell you about a reality. So...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0264par0063	In Istanbul, the Kastamonites will ask for their account.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0262par0064	...the march is completely in control of the living, the agenda of the living, and the plans, the proposals that come out here, are entirely by the initiative of running it. For example, how many law proposals for opposition lawmakers have been passed here?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0265par0065	Nothing.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0262par0066	Not enough to say there isn't. It's not supposed to be like this. Offering laws in ideal parliaments doesn't matter between ruling and opposition parties. Let's get to something else. For example, there was an argument here. One of our former ministers used his right to defend himself, asked for a word because of bullying, but since there was no ruling in the Civil Code, Mr. President, although he wanted to -- personal preference -- he couldn't promise the Minister here for bullying. The Civil Code is damaged by a lot of gaps like this. The bag law... we invented a concept called the Torba law. It's ugly. So no manufacturer would be willing to allow their own product to be worthless. We make the law and call it the law. We call it the law. I mean, would that happen? Man-made products are better markets, they want to maintain a better reputation. What's the Torba law? Parliament Speaker is writing to the President of the Budget Commission, saying to unify laws that have nothing to do with it. The Commissioner says, "I did this, it's true what I said. No. It's the Civil Code and we can't change the Civil Code, I'm afraid. He's been waiting for months on the 1st of the agenda for years. What's the second thing on the agenda that we always pass on? There's a State Secret Act bill. It's an important design. There's no description. The commissions were so rushed, it had to come out, it had to come out, it had to come out. So why aren't you seeing him? Half of it, we opened it, we left it in the middle of the book, on the table, it's still there. What's third place? Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act Bill. We're taking the outside guard of the prisons from the Home Office and giving them to the Justice Department. Thousands of squads have been committed. Executioners working at criminal execution agencies have been given improvements on their rights, compensations, their share of wear and tear; they are waiting now. Well, why don't you take this off? You couldn't make a deal with the Treasury Department, and you blocked it, and now it's stopped here. Well, it's a shame, isn't it? Why are you holding this back from the death guard who served under such difficult circumstances? Another bill: the draft of the Military Judgement Act. We rushed the commission, we got it out, we got it here, we discussed 3 articles, 5 clauses, we opened it, there's law on the table. So we don't respect the economy of procedure. It's being rushed now. All the ministries brought in every law on their shelves, every bill, piled it up, commission. My dear friends, after June 8th, will Parliament stop, will Turkey stop, or won't this Parliament pass the law? What's the rush? That's what you should call it. And who's going to call it "stop." This should be called by our Parliament to stop. Now, at this point, our group presidents are getting very important assignments, especially for our ruling party's group presidents. So, it was fate, and I served as a two-term co-chair. The vice president of the group has two hats: one will protect his group's rights, his law; two, he will uphold the rights of the House. If he's content to defend his own group's rights, he's not completely done the job. So, in order to protect the legislature's corporate personality, the established concepts of the House, the convictions, the group's vice presidents have to be sensitive, but this isn't happening, it's not happening. What has come from the government is an immediate attempt to remove it. It occurs to me that Galatasaray has a match in England. As the game continued, an audience entered the field with a separatist banner. The captain of the British team took that banner away from him, threw it out of the field. They judged the captain: Why did you take this? You've been in trouble, you've been in bad blood. The English captain said: "I am the captain of this team. I'm as responsible for what's going to happen on the field as the referee, and I'm taking the risk. So, I'm not saying for this time, but for our fellow group presidents here, I hope our friends, who are going to be acting forward- the new group presidents, will be sensitive to the law of the House, the dignity of the Assembly, the laws of the House, I hope, not just to protect the rights of their own group. Now, the fundamental law is a major advantage for power; it's very comprehensive, especially important for the adoption of code laws, and by taking advantage of it, important bills came out, but it was abused. We considered a 15-point bill, a proposal, a fundamental law. This means the abuse of this fundamental law. Bag law is a very ugly issue, something we should never pronounce, and hopefully, in the coming year of life, there won't be a law-making operation like this again in the days of life. All this, of course, disrupts the quality of law enforcement, undermines the dignity of our laws. Ministrys and bureaucracy are often applying to Parliament. For example, the Supreme Court's Law has changed over and over again, the Penal Code has changed. We change the law every three months, every two months. What's this? It destabilizes the country, corrupts its legal security, while both our citizens and foreigners pay great attention to the legal security and stability of this country. I also think it's best for both the bureaucracy and the ministries to be careful. What else is there? Other than that, my dear friends, when we examine carefully, we see that the emerging law proposals serve two main objectives: the primary goal is to identify the legal infrastructure of the so-called expansion process; and secondly, we have seen a legal counteroffensive struggle to destroy legal evidence of allegations of corruption launched on December 17th and 25th. The government has put this mark on the laws of such understanding, so if there were 10 laws, eight of them would serve these two purposes. Of course, the country has other problems, other sectors, our valued citizens in society, they have other expectations. The heart would want to answer them as a law, and let's get rid of the chaos in society as soon as possible, but unfortunately, these two issues have both taken up this legislative period, and it's likely to limit legislature to a significant extent in the coming period. Congressmans, we're going through an important process. The geography we're in is critical, and many security issues, especially border security in our country, are under threat. There was another incident in the evening to attack the police station on Vatan Street. I mean, we're always on the alert, God forbid. Where in the country is the gun going off, the bomb going off, that's what we're doing with this anxiety. Of course, we all have important responsibilities for him. Terror is a crime of humanity, and we all have to be careful not to blame each other, but the government, which is now responsible for protecting the state and its institutions, has to be more sensitive than anyone else, has to be more tolerant. Not just about security, but of course, we have issues that are important, as a result of the wrong policy on foreign policy. The restrictions of freedom of expression have been made, the fundamental legal provisions for restricting freedom of thought have been made, and we have a problem at these points. The economy is extremely troubled. An interest debate raised an estimated 90-95 billion-dollar debt in this country. Both institutions and individuals have suffered losses due to this discussion, or rather the loss of our country's economy. Now we're arguing whether we should raise interest or go up interest in terms of trends in the world? The economy is at a difficult point because of the world's developments and our own dynamics. National education is a sabbatical every year. There are major health issues. We're entering a critical process. I think our job is harder after June 7th, my dear friends. The new parliament, which will be formed after 7 June, and the new republic's government, awaits important tasks. How can a society prepare for such a tight period? It can be prepared peacefully for itself. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to have to make a political compromise. You can't make a social compromise without a political compromise. As of today, the hope of a political compromise is very slim, especially based on the position of power, but it must and must happen. This society can't move on in such a tense state, it can't solve its enormous problems in such a tense environment. So, we need to reach a political consensus, which we can easily reach out to our citizens after we reach a consensus in politics. We've got things to watch out for. Right now, to me, the system doesn't have a referee. There's a fight between institutions. It is clear in the Constitution that who will resolve this fight, who will be the referee, but since the President is not within constitutional limits, he has lost this title of neutrality and arbitration. Then who gets the job? It's independent jurisdiction. So the first thing that we all need to focus on is the state of law, the independence of justice, and the guarantee of justice. We're having trouble with that, too. For example, 236 officers were acquitted in the Sledgehammer case. Get well, they've suffered a lot, paid a lot of costs with their families, with themselves, and they've been acquitted, but after Basra was devastated. Now, maybe this House and the community need to move ahead of everything about their extradition, to ensure their extradition. This was because the judgment interfered with its normal flow. I don't think this would have been the course of the cases that cost the sledgehammer and public opinion if it hadn't been for special authorities and special prosecutors. Now there's an intervention in the judiciary in this sense, to take the government's initiative, to start with the HSYK election, until the Supreme Court's office elections. Now, I don't know how many laps there have been in the Supreme Court, it's been locked, it's been run. Most of the people we know, they're respected, they've been head of the department for years. If you leave the members of the Supreme Court alone, they'll choose one of those members, but it's locked up now, so that I can have the head of this department and I can have this place. Our judges have split up their rooms, they don't say hello to each other. I mean, it's hard to get justice out of a judgment like this when the judge is going camping. But, despite all that, it's the Turkish judiciary that will resolve the crisis that we're going through. For him, if our high judges, judges, are able to unbiasedly resolve any conflict that comes to them by paying attention to judicial independence, judicial collateral, at least in this transition process, we will be able to address our country's important problems, including the Supreme Court, including the Constitutional Court. One of the greatest challenges is the politicalisation of the judiciary and the politicalisation of our religion. We need to be as far away from these two areas as possible. It puts us through endless ordeals. As Parliament, he says we should all pay close attention to the matter, and I salute your grand delegation, wishing it to be good again.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0266par0088	Thank you, Mr. Basesgioglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. And on behalf of your person, you have your word, and I promise you by combining them together. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Law Proposal 704. I salute you all. By the way, I'm saluting the empty desks! Dear lawmakers, this is a unanimous bill passed by the Law Proposal Justice Commission in 704 rows. Our friends before me explained what it brought and what it took. A mechanism is being brought in from local courts that prevents the files from moving between the Supreme Court agencies because of the conflict of duty, which is a proper mechanism. Again, there was a ban on partial litigation in the Law on Law Laws, and now we've cleared his way here. This is actually a proper arrangement in terms of expanding the limits of right-seeking freedom. Dear lawmakers, so far, the ruling Justice and Development Party has passed conjunctural and short-term laws. While these laws were being passed, they were basically held by the conjuncturing of that day. The proposals of the law included nothing about the needs of the judiciary. In fact, special arrangements for individuals and those close to power were sprinkled among those proposed by the law, and it was called ▪reform. Mr. Power made this word out of the word'reform.' You can't reform the same thing over and over again. Because political power couldn't really comprehend the rule of law, it couldn't embrace it. The executive body has chosen to overcome every problem by making a law, and it has endured the majority of Parliament here, and while doing so, it has not hesitated to make arrangements that were very clear to the Constitution. Now, why did this Parliament make arrangements that even a citizen who did not attend law school could clearly find out that it was contrary to the Constitution? This is what he did: let's do it. We'll make the changes we want until the Supreme Court decides to call it off. After he has already decided to cancel, the Supreme Court will not be able to reverse its decision. As a matter of fact, the appointment made at HSYK is based on the HSYK Act, which was cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Dear lawmakers, before I enter into law enforcement activities of the legal state and democratic body, I express our condolences for the murder and murder of Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz, who is also from Mersin, and I ask God's mercy on him and his wife, his children. Dear lawmakers, we must not leave this incident, however, as the political government has presented it to the public. So DHKP-C militants did this. They're traitors. They've done this.... with this kind of porter's speech, it can't be avoided. If a state of law has carried out an active operation, which will be carried out directly without a trial, without investigating the possibility of taking a hostage prosecutor and his captors, it is not possible to accept. I've said over and over on this bench that terrorists have the right to benefit from human rights in the state of law. I said, "The state of law must fight with one hand in hand while fighting terrorism." Now, as far as we can tell from their interview with Ahmet Şık, half an hour before the operation, the public is justified in carrying deep doubts about the way this happened. Ahmet Şık here asks: "When you entered, information about the identity of a lawyer or the fact that you are a lawyer has entered into circulation. How did you enter the courthouse with weapons? We will not give any explanation as to how we got in. It'll come out in time, but at this point, we're not going to explain. This kind of rumor makes lawyers a target, but we don't need to use a lawyer's ID or a robe to make lawyers the target of this action. In this country, lawyers have been targeted many times, imprisoned for taking care of their clients, even murdered. Therefore, it is not possible for lawyers to be targeted by our actions because everyone who does not favor AKP and order is already a target in this country. They are called and continue to say, my dear friends: If the request is not met, you will punish the prosecutor, is that legitimate? This is what the men say: we are trying to avoid it. It's up to them whether our request is met or not, and if nothing happens to the prosecutor. If they don't want anything to happen to them, let them fulfill our request. Now, what I'm trying to say is that the Commissioner is making a statement after this. And from the commissioner's statement... he says the prosecutor was killed by those activists after the operation was carried out. So, guys, how are these guys gonna kill that D.A. after that operation was done? Now, from this stand, I have serious doubts that both the activists and the prosecutor were killed by police bullets. There's only one way to remove these doubts in public: in the autopsy report, the police must determine whether the bullets in that prosecutor's body and those activists are the same. There's no explanation from the police; there's no way we're going anywhere with this stuff, my friends. It's not gonna happen. Now, the same day the electricity goes out in Turkey, and the Minister doesn't make any statements. I think that these events are parallel to each other, not just me, but the reactions that I'm getting. There are serious doubts in the public that there are certain forces behind this incident, and I don't know if Mr. Secretary is feeling the power out? The Minister's feeling is strong. I wonder why the power went out. It hasn't been explained, it's been said it's not a technical malfunction. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this matter needs to be cleared up. There was a very serious incident yesterday. 206 defendants on trial for the sledgehammer case were acquitted, and we're avoiding the incident as if there was nothing in Turkey, so it's like it's just an ordinary incident. Look, can you imagine that these generals are being tried and tried for the coup, they're being punished differently. I'll tell you, at that time, they're being charged with attempted banning the government of the Republic of Turkey, and they're being convicted of it. These sentences are approved by the Supreme Court, so by the Supreme Court's approval, some of them are sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment, but after that, they are acquitted in a second trial. Now, it's either that court, or it's 10 on that date. The Special Official High Criminal Court is flawed, and the Supreme Court, which confirms that verdict, is 9. The members of the Department of Corrections are imperfect, or the courts that make these acquittals are flawed. Now, how am I supposed to trust the judgment as a citizen, fellas? At that time, the Prime Minister, again, has very clear things to say about today's President's case of the Sledgehammer, which will be black and white." he says. Yes, white and black, Mr. President, look, they've been acquitted. And it says, Mr. President, at that time: "If the firms are subject to a routine cleanup of the Sledgehammer case, no one should be disturbed by it." So the institutions are not subject to cleanup. Again, there are the words that Bkent Arinc said at that time, according to Bült Arinc: "It is not possible for these organisations to stand without outside help in the cases of Balyoz, Ergenekon." he says. Now, friends, that's how much you praise that date, and you say that he's a prosecutor, but now you're getting up... a man who's been given a aggravated life sentence comes out, and then he's released. It's a shame! You have to go out and apologize. It's that easy? Okay, they've been acquitted, but what about the process these people spend in prison, their lives? Mr. Mehmet Haberal lived there, rotted in prison for four and a half years; his wives, children, relatives were tortured, tortured, tortured. It's that simple? But there's nothing wrong with anyone. The Balioz case has released the defendants. It's so ordinary. Now, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about another matter. I mean, look, every once in a while, our friends come up to this parallel structure, so they're almost going to make CHP a parallel maker, and they're going to come out of it. So what's that parallel structure, I don't get it. Let's call it what it is. Why don't you call it Fethullah Gülen's structure, why don't you just call it "the parallel structure," or something like that? Look, my dear friends, do you know where the essence of today's discussion lies? Do you know where your separation today with your former companion, Fethullah Gulen? May 22, 2013. Mr. President, on May 22, 2013, Mr. Bulent Arinc is on his way to Fethullah Gulen. I made this visit with the knowledge of my Prime Minister, and Mr. Prime Minister said that I had made this visit to him by proxy. That's what I'd say if I was asked. It is a visit to see the face of a person who has loved him for almost 40 years. The Prime Minister sends his regards. He asked me to ask if the Master of the Hoca would have any orders from us. Look, this sentence is very important. Mr. Mahir Ünal, this sentence is very important. About him...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0268par0107	I'm not going to answer your bullying.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0108	Look, there are things written about him, about our government. Do they have suggestions in these matters? Recep Tayyip Erdogan. There are things written in the media about the congregation and about us that have been broken. Do they have any suggestions? We asked him to warn us about things we couldn't see. The man who said that was Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. Justice Minister, as Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, a Republican People's Party MP called Fethullah Gulen, saying here he was acting Group Chairman, saying: "Fethullah Gülen is a valuable asset raised by this country. I will continue, I will not say this. It says: "When you look at the services done, if you accuse a person who is not convicted by any prosecutor, you will do a great injustice to him. He's not here either. But look, friends of the gang, on gang charge. Look, it's very important: the investigations of the gang, the prosecutions, the prosecutions, the coup charges against democracy, the effort to move the MPs to Parliament. He says that we can't be able to move the people to the parliament because they're being charged with bringing them to trial. He says that the group can't be allowed to carry the people in order to be clean. Guys, I'm not saying this, it's Bekir Bozdağ. Now, you need to be a little embarrassed. Look, people will be embarrassed to blame others.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0269par0112	Come on, you're making morality out of your own words. Oh, come on!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0113	When you said that in 2013, Hussain Steel...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0269par0114	We've done nothing to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0115	You'll be ashamed, Mr. President, ashamed! You'll be ashamed to tell CHP! You'd be ashamed to say those things!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0269par0116	We've done nothing to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0117	What else are you gonna do? What else are you gonna do? Look, look, what does Hussein Steel say? The body has taken over the state, infiltrated the state. They make crows laugh. Leave these paranoias aside. Yes, I'm telling you now, put aside the paranoia of dealing with the congregation. You're the greatest cultist, parallel structure.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0270par0120	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0121	Okay? These gangs in the police force are in the era of Efkan Ala
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0271par0123	Don't you have a sense of time? You're a lawyer, don't you have a sense of time? Don't you have priority, after? No prior crime, no post-crime?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0124	These gangs were in the Oğuz Khan Khan İksal Police Department. These gangs were placed in the state by AKP, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Abdullah Gul.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0272par0125	Oh, you're going to die in your heart!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0126	Oğuz khan was the chief of police, chief of police. That's what you've done with the judgment.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0127	I'm not gonna fight you, don't scream.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0128	You're the biggest gang. Look, you're the biggest gang in this country. Your presence is the greatest threat to the democratic state of law.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0129	I'm not gonna fight you, I'm gonna give it all back to you, I'm gonna give it all back to you. What you're saying doesn't mean anything.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0130	The biggest gang is the ones who come up here and say, "I don't know this Constitution." They're the biggest gang. You have no respect for the law.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0131	Carry on with your own gas! Go on with your own gas! I don't go for that.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0132	You walk hand in hand, hand in hand with the Fethullah Gulen. Blent Arinc says, "Brenkent Arinc..."
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0133	You get 'em, get 'em, get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0134	"Brenkent Arinc says that the melih sold the sky to the parsel parallel structure.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0135	Look at what you're saying!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0136	Mahir Ünal... Mahir Ünal, Melih Gökçek also says: "Bkent Arinc, Deputy Prime Minister parallel maker."
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0273par0137	You say the word, you say the word!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0138	It was hard, wasn't it? You can't handle it, can you?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0274par0139	What did Birgül Ayman Güler say? Parallel structure...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0140	You can't handle it, can you? Look, I'm gonna tell you something...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0141	Talk about skewer! And thou shalt look upon the Shushli, and speak of the threats of Şişli.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0142	You just said that here: (CHP) has declared every structure that is not in its own control illegitimate.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0143	That's what you do, that's what you do!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0144	You are the ones who declared this Constitution illegitimate here.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0145	You're declaring the state illegitimate because you don't run it.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0146	It's your president who says there shouldn't be a separation of forces in this country. You're the ones who killed the law in this country, you're the ones who made the judgment in this country, and now you're confessing.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0147	We do everything in public.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0148	You'll be ashamed!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0149	You're the one who should be ashamed!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0150	You're not saying that you've given judgment to the parallel structure...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0151	You should be ashamed to talk like that as a politician!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0152	He pulled the trigger. You go out as Deputy Director of the Group and answer for them first.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0275par0153	You should be ashamed! You should be ashamed!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0276par0154	Is that any way to treat a group of vice presidents?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0155	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0277par0156	You're taking orders from Pennsylvania, you're getting orders from Pennsylvania!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0157	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0278par0158	Please don't talk to each other, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0159	Look, those who went arm in arm with Fethullah Gulen were members of the AKP, who visited Fethullah Gulen, abroad -- when we left. I know who left us in the hotel room and visited the schools of Fethullah Gülen. Look, what's he saying, Bulent Arinc? We know very well who barks where they are, he says. I'm not saying that, but Bulent Arinc is saying that, Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0279par0161	Yeah, take it easy, you'll be out of your heart in a minute.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0162	Okay? They may have gone to your power.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0279par0163	Relax, have a glass of water.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0164	Bulent Arinc knew exactly who was barking where, but he knew who was barking where, okay?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0280par0165	Yeah, I'm glad he did. I'm glad he did.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0166	You tell me that, okay?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0280par0167	Don't you have anything else to talk about? That's it, that's it. Don't you guys have stuff?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0168	It's a black mark on your forehead. Look, this parallel structure thing is a black mark on your forehead, okay? It's a black stain! You can't travel in this society with this stain.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0281par0169	Who is taking orders from Pennsylvania? Who is CHP cooperating with in the election?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0282par0170	Mr. Ozturk, calm down, please.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0267par0171	Now, the congregation has infiltrated the state, the crows laugh, it's paranoia. It's Huseyin Steel. Now you're saying that the congregation has taken over. You're saying that Hüseyin Çelik says that this is paranoia. Dear lawmakers, there's a lot to be said about you, but if a law-enforcement president who doesn't understand the law, who's been cut off from the state of the law, who's been notified, who's involved, and the MPs who represent the national will in this House, I don't have a word to say to them. Shame on you!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0283par0174	Shame on you! Go!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0284par0175	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, ten minutes on behalf of himself. Here you go.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0179	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to pick up where Mr. Ozturk left off. Of course, perhaps we are giving the final speech of the 24th century. I'd like to share with you a few thoughts on yesterday's sledgehammer case in order to make a note of history and for the record. Dear friends, first of all, as the Republican People's Party, we took part in all the cases against AKP to silence its own opponents, and we didn't separate them at all. In Ergenekon, in the Sledgehammer, in the KCK, in the Oda TV, at the Revolutionary Headquarters, we watched the fraud cases and shared the unlawfulness of Turkey with the public. We've told the disgraces of these cases, the injustices of these cases, and the lawmakers from time to time on this parliamentary stand. In the days when the public was declared a coupger for following those cases, when they were referred to as political, and those who followed the cases, we stood by them as the People's Party of the Republic in the days when the public influenced the press. I'd just like to say that the only party that gets the clearest attitude in these cases is the Republican People's Party. Dear lawmakers, look what the press has been saying in the past few years, what the press has been saying about the sledgehammer, the ones who have now turned away. Look, dear lawmakers, the headline of a newspaper that you read before you washed your face, which you received, which directed you, is that the Fatih Mosque will be bombed, and assassinations will be carried out. Before breakfast, you read them without washing your face. Now, a newspaper that you read about when you were peeling eggs for breakfast -- look, look, see, you were reading when the egg was peeling, when you were peeling eggs -- says, "Let there be an example for the fighter." This is a newspaper you've read, friends, your broadcaster, your official broadcaster. It says here, they read this paper after they peel the egg for breakfast. They read that without washing their faces. Now, you read this when you're drinking second tea for breakfast, and you're reading this while you're having second tea for breakfast. And then, what does it say? Yes, they attempted to attack. It says. That's the same thing: I can't call Ballioz. This is your teacher, and you know this. This one was in command of his own army, but I don't know what he thinks now, if he's ashamed. And this is the friend the Prime Minister called the teacher. Now, my dear friends, and also to Master Hodja, I mean Fethullah Hodja Effendi, let him be in good health. May God grant you a long life. You said you were reading this newspaper. Remember, you were handing this out for free in all your municipalities, all the state institutions. Yeah, see these, if you have any, maybe you'll be a little offended, maybe you guys will be a little embarrassed. Look, look, look, look.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0286par0183	Now you're reading...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0184	Mr. Recep Special, look here. What were you doing? Aman, let the Time Journal appear. You were driving it out of your seat. What's this? Friends, as you read this, you pray to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, God bless you, you make us deputies. And look, you did this, and I didn't make that headline. Now, folks, we've come to another newspaper that's been targeting everyone from semester to semester. It's not a rematch. It's a rematch. How did you get the rematch? Look at the headline: they can't even be corporals anymore. Now, he cries to you on the phone sometimes, and then you read it in another newspaper that made a headline like this, crying in jail sometimes, drinking coffee after breakfast. Now, there's another newspaper, it's a judicial coup. It's titled, you read it towards lunch, it must satisfy your hunger. You know that, and the Ballios decision will be a precedent, and perhaps the Minister will see it. Now, my dear friends, all of these cases had abnormal injustices. The price of the substance has been made, and a sledgehammer has been dropped on the head of the sledgehammer. The five-year play that AKP played with the congregation, together with the congregation, has ended, its production of the lie wind has ended, but I also want to ask you, if you have a little conscience, please answer these questions by consulting your conscience: Will those who support this plot, those who support it, those who tell us that every time we stand on the stand, will they be ashamed when they meet those people?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0287par0186	You'll be ashamed!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0187	Now, looking at our faces, for example, I don't know if you're ashamed, I don't know if you're a little embarrassed. For five years, you have called Ergenekon, Balyoz, and Balyoz,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Do you have a conscience? Do you think about saying that a little bit? Look, dear friends, what did Prime Minister Erdogan say today about the court's false evidence? I'm listening to the CDs, and I'm shocked. I don't believe it if I don't listen to that CD. Dear friends, let us remember what your Minister, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, had said about the Balyoz trial decision: "With this decision, doubts have become a conclusion." Now, there was a doubt about the plan of the blow of the ball, it was a conviction. Now, dear friends, everyone is acquitted.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0288par0190	But from start to finish, everyone...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0191	Your eyes are closed from beginning to end.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0288par0192	These suspicions...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0193	Look, dear friends, this is the stand, this is the stand, this is the witness.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0288par0194	I wish you'd show the same sensitivity.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0195	This stand is a witness to who said what. This chair is a martyr of what you say, and look, he's a witness to what you say.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0289par0196	He's a witness to you and to you!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0198	We're talking about the sledgehammer, this is the witness, who says what, fellow witnesses. On this stand, who called the sledgehammer, and then crossed over to the soldiers, and we were deceived. And who said, "Who is this witness?"
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0290par0200	So the parallel structure wouldn't have to witness...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0201	▪ It says parallel structure. Mr. Ali Reza just told me you're very good at saying that. What do you say? We met with Murat Karayilan. You say, "It's like you're talking to the mountain." You're talking to Ocalan, what do you say? We've met with the emperor.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0291par0202	That's what makes the double roads, the government does the Oslo interview.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0203	Yes, the AKP makes double roads, the government does the meeting with Ocalan, just like that. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, dear friends, what do you say to the congregation that you've eaten and drank together and worked so hard to come to power, what do you say to Master Fethullah?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0292par0206	Terrorist.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0207	▪ They call it the parallel structure, the terrorist. You guys are great at this, and if they're a gang, I'm sorry, Recep Special, you're a gang.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0293par0209	No way, no way!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0210	If that's a gang, you're a gang, you guys are a double gang.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0293par0211	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0212	Now, we said that five years ago, look, five years ago, we submitted research motions, five years ago... Look, there's a book, folks, because of AKP, thanks to you, this Parliament produced three or four writers: Free Special, Nurettin Demir, Muharrem Imlum, and I am Veli Ağbaba. Who wrote this book? We didn't write this book, you wrote this book, the AKP wrote it. (HPP) Thanks to you, we're writers. We've sent all of you with this balooz Kumba, and one of you has not opened the lid and read it, and if you had read it, you would have mastered it before now. Dear friends, look, we've been telling the law about this Sledgehammer case everywhere. People were massacred in this case. Now, you can't sit on the sidelines and say, "I didn't know anything." In this case, a retired colonel named Tarik Akça couldn't feed him his pride, he committed suicide, Halil Yıldız committed suicide...
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0294par0215	Ali Tatar.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0216	Murat Özenalp, these cases died of a heart attack in Mamak Prison after the conspiracy -- you said -- was staged. Besides, I'd like to sing in front of you the dramas of these families.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0295par0218	But they were deceived.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0219	Look, Sema Özenalp, the wife of Murat Özenalp, was laid off. The officers' children were expelled from schools, expelled from private schools, because they were charged with a sledgehammer's blow. The victims of the sledgehammer case, their wives, women, were cut off from their jobs. If you have a little conscience, Akif Hamzacebi has brought it here in the last few days, to return the rights of the people who have been punished by Ballioz. If you call this one, if you have a conscience, if there is some humanity, you will return the rights of the people who have been victimized in the Balyoz case. Look, in this case, dear friends, a lot has happened. In this case, we, the Republican People's Party Prison Commission, have gone nowhere but apart. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Here, Mr. Free Special, someone might be embarrassed, and in the beginning, soldiers who don't take care of their comrades, they're supposed to be taken. In the past, people who associate arms with each other can be ashamed, ashamed, and ashamed, because they will be ashamed. Only for politics, for those who sell their friends to get to a place, for those who sell their friends to get to the office, should be ashamed, ashamed, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, your biggest mistake is always believing in Erdogan, believing in the President. What did he say? He said there was violence. He said, you believed without watching.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0296par0225	So we're supposed to believe him?
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0226	What did he say to you? There's no balloons, there's a plot. He said, "You believed without reading." Look, what's he saying now? He says he wants 400 MPs. He doesn't really want 400 brains, he doesn't want 400 MPs, he wants 400 fingers.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0297par0227	Get out of here!
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0285par0228	If he pulls out 400 fingers, you'll be worthless, and you'll just be fingers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say that whoever supported this Sledgehammer case, whoever condoned it, is about to be tried. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2015-04-01sit04spe0298par0234	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Agha. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the subject of the law against the law, the law shall be changed by law. MADDE 1-4/2/1983 and Article 17 of Article 17 of the Supreme Court Act 2797 have been removed from force. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2-2797 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 60 of the Law. "Sent the case files to the Supreme Court and the Board of Law Department Review MADDE 60- The office of the court has been assigned to the relevant office of the court, according to the 14th Article of the Law, regardless of the court's office, regardless of the name of the apartment in which the case files will be submitted to appeals to the Supreme Court's legal offices. The Court of Appeals shall be appointed by the Court's First Vice President, who is tasked with resolving the discrepancies of the duties and the office of the Supreme Court of Appeals, and shall be appointed by the Court's First Vice President, who shall be appointed by the Supreme Court of Appeals for a one-year term, as well as by the Court of Appeal members. A branch office is established within this Council, and enough investigators and staff are assigned to work here. Under the first joke, the relevant legal office sent to him, and if he does not considers himself in charge of the work department as a result of his preliminary examination within a month, he will, on grounds, send the file to the Board of Review of Legal Affairs. The decision cannot be made after the end of a month. The decision on the work department is final as a result of preliminary examination by the board. The board meets with the participation of the president and the four main members and decides with a majority of votes. In the absence of the president, the senior member of the original members heads the meeting; the lack of the original members is completed with the participation of the replacements. The board works at least two weeks a month. In the meantime, members of the board do not participate in the work in their apartments." I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The first joke of Article 47 of Law Code No. 6100, dated 3-12/1/2011, has been changed as follows. The lawsuit against the state is held as a first-degree court of the Court of Justice for the first degree and the first-degree court of justice for the actions and decisions of the judges of the district court; the Supreme Court shall be held in the court of law on the basis of the verbs and decisions of those who are in the same position as the Supreme Court of Justice and those who are in law with them. The case is held at the Supreme Court's Third Law Office because of the actions and decisions of the president and members of this agency. The appeals of decisions are carried out by the General Assembly of the Law. "The president and members of the ruling president cannot participate in the appeal review." I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The second joke of Article 109 of Law 4-6100 has been lifted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 5. - This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 6. - The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the full offer to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The offer has been accepted and legalized. We will resume the talks of Law Bill 687, which is ranked in the sixth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, the decision was made on Thursday (April 2nd 2015) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss them in accordance with the decision taken, it is now 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
