ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Since there is no record to be announced, we will enter the first item on the agenda, which is generally the discussion of the projects of lein.o 726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of the plant, substances and preparations of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( BE) and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the admissibility of use of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( PAN) together with draft resolution No 1221 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse the evolution of the health impacts of cannabis use and its appropriate use for therapeutic purposes and take the measures necessary to prevent the consumption of this psychoactive substance ( PCP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legalization of cannabis for medicinal purposes is a matter of health and that is only what we discuss with the proposal of the Left Block — health. The proposal from the Left Block allows a doctor to prescribe cannabis, which can be dispensed in pharmacy, which may be authorised for autoculture and which Infarmed regulates and controls the entire process. It is a proposal based on scientific evidence and international experience. Studies have shown — as it is pointed out, in the opinion of the Medical Order — that cannabis is effective as a complement to cancer treatments, reducing nausea and increasing appetite, that cannabis is useful for chronic pain relief, that cannabis brings benefits to patients with multiple sclerosis and other neurodegenerative and neuromuscular diseases, that cannabis can be used to improve the quality of life of many and many patients. In the face of evidence, several countries already allow their prescription and dispensation, others allow autoculture — Italy, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Germany, Canada — to name just a few of them. in these countries, legalization for medicinal purposes has been proven safe and beneficial. In view of this, scientific evidence and accumulated international experience, it would be strange not to legalize cannabis for medicinal purposes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u4	... strange it would be to continue to delay a decision that is sensible, strange it would be to continue to study what is being studied and thus protect the entry into force of a measure that will help cancer patients, patients receiving HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), patients with chronic pain. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] If Portugal already authorizes its production for export, why not authorize its prescription by doctors? The proposal of the Left Block corresponds to an increasing consensus in society. The open letter of more than one hundred health professionals, patients and patient associations is an example: they all appeal to legalization. The former President of Infarmed José Aranda da Silva calls for legalization, the President of SICAD (Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies) says that he has no objection to his use for medical purposes, the Order of the Doctors, the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio, all of them appeal to legalization. The political parties themselves, such as the PS or the PCP, still in March of last year said they had no objection to their legalization since there was scientific evidence. Well, there she is, the scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u6	The Left Block proposal meets the needs of many patients, as in the case of Pedro Alves Andrade, paraplegic, who needs this substance to control spasms and reduce muscle stiffness. Since the prescription does not exist, either it is deprived of this treatment or it is pushed into the black market. With legalization for medical purposes, we will be responding to this and many other cases. This is what the Left Block proposes, and this is what society expects. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u7	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Scientific evidence determines that cannabis consumption for medicinal purposes is safe and has benefits when it is possible to provide comfort in cases where other drugs cannot do so, such as palliative care or reducing the side effects of chemotherapy. The World Health Organization ( WHO) also testifies that cannabis has therapeutic value for the prevention of seizures due to epilepsy. In addition to the efficacy of cannabis in clinical use, the Medical Order recognizes and validates its use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, anxiety control or sleep improvement in people with obstructive sleep apnea. Resistance to cannabis consumption for medicinal purposes is no more than the prejudice of some, who, with scientific arguments, claim that what is intended is a legalization for recreational purposes and that there are no public health monitoring mechanisms to control consumption, which is not true. Moreover, at least the Portuguese State is hypocritical to recognize the benefits of cannabis for medicinal purposes, by allowing its planting in Portugal by foreign companies, but to prevent the improvement of the quality of life of many people and greater and better access to the most appropriate treatment of their health status, through a medical prescription. Who determines the means of treatment and the form of consumption are doctors, through prescription and prescription. The medicine is purchased in a pharmacy or can be self-cultivated, all of this with the supervision of Infarmed, the Directorate-General for Health and the criminal police. Thus, and as is already the case in countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Italy or Canada, it is time to take this step further to realize the right to health of Portuguese people and to place the many medical benefits of this plant at the service of sick people. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u9	Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today should be about the therapeutic use of cannabis. However, this debate is polluted at the outset, because — let us be very clear — the initiatives of BE and PAN do not really have this objective; they aim, in a bold way, to pave the way for the use of cannabis for recreational purposes. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] ... and that is another debate on which there would also be much to say. If BE and PAN defend the recreational consumption of cannabis, they should have clearly proposed it so that the debate could be done without misconceptions. Since BE and the NAP chose to hide this proposal under the pretext of therapeutic purposes, it is necessary to start by clarifying the mistakes we have in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the current law, it is already possible to use cannabis for therapeutic purposes and Infarmed has so far authorized the marketing of a cannabis based medicine for patients with multiple sclerosis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u12	This happens with cannabis as with any other substance that may have therapeutic use and that does not require authorization from the Assembly of the Republic to be used in medicinal products.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u14	This is also the example of opium-based medicines authorized by Infarmed and placed on the market without the prior authorization of Parliament. The use of cannabis or any other substance for therapeutic purposes is an essentially technical and scientific matter and not a political issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u16	There is scientific evidence and clinical advantage in the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes, so what is expected is that the competent authorities will act in this case in the same molds and with the same rigor as they do for any other medicinal product available on the market. This procedure should not, of course, be dependent on a law that legalizes the use of substances for therapeutic purposes. Therefore, in the project that brings to the discussion, the PCP proposes what is appropriate to propose on the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes: the complete clinical evaluation of the advantages of the use of sativa cannabis for therapeutic purposes and, in the light of the scientific evidence of these advantages, which is based on its use in the National Health Service (NSS) when this demonstrates that it corresponds to the treatment necessary for a given pathology.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u18	What we propose is, moreover, to meet the various opinions issued by entities involved in this matter, namely that of the Medical Order. The PCP resolution project does not omit, nor could it omit, the existence of adverse effects due to the use of cannabis, because there is strong evidence that consumption of this substance can induce psychotic symptoms in people with predisposition to develop schizophrenia or other behavioral disorders. It also does not silence the results of several studies, including one study conducted in the last year, which shows that — and I quote — « between 2012 and 2016 / 2017, the percentage of the population living in Portugal ( 15 - 74 years) with the most frequent pattern of cannabis consumption quadrupled ». In view of this, the CFP advocates the use of scientific studies on the effects of cannabis consumption and that of them be made known to the Assembly of the Republic. We also propose that public investment in prevention and the financial, technical and human resources of public services in the area of drug addiction be strengthened. Considering the CFP that regulation of the therapeutic use of cannabis cannot be used as a pretext for legitimizing or favoring its recreational use — which, moreover, is very visible with the proposals that BE and the NAP make about autoculture, without setting any criteria to ensure the therapeutic objectives they say to pursue — the CFP will not follow these initiatives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u19	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin this speech with three main ideas that I think it is important to clarify. First of all, and before we are accused of this, because this is the habit of these issues, the PSD does not have on this matter—of the rest, as well as on many others—no kind of retrograde or dogmatic vision, nor does it represent any kind of taboo. Secondly, to be clear, I mean that the Social Democratic Party is not against — I repeat, it is not against — the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. Thirdly, Mr President, I also want to say that what we do not confuse is the use of cannabis for recreational purposes with the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. Given this, we are today, in this debate, before three initiatives, two bills and a draft resolution, which are quite different in nature from one another. We are before a bill of the Left Block and another of the NAP, which basically proposes the legalization of cannabis for consumption and also its cultivation, the trailer, so to speak, of a certain idea of therapeutic purposes, and a draft resolution of the PCP, which seems to us, PSD, much more informed, much more sensible, and which, in essence, recommends to the Government that an analysis of the impacts of cannabis use be made on what is to do with public health.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u21	All right! [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Joana Mortágua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u22	There are, therefore, significant differences between the first two initiatives and the CFP initiative in our view. If, on the one hand, the first two initiatives determine that the obtaining of cannabis can and should be done on the basis of medical prescription and, therefore, through the pharmacy, on the other hand do not establish any effective penalties for those who, through their cultivation, can give it to third parties. In addition, it is a matter which sometimes seems to be treated in a somewhat or slightly way, because, as has already been mentioned, the potential dangers that a substance such as cannabis may have for public health are often forgotten when used continuously. [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Joana Mortágua.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we say is that, at least, there is a need to deepen, technically and scientifically, the use of this substance. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] After all this, I would like to point out once again: we are in favour of the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u23	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u24	Then vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u25	How? — they will ask me. Exactly to the extent that the context of the drug policy is inserted by the Portuguese State, notably via Infarmed. Secondly, never, but never this unregulated and, in a way, dangerous...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u26	But what is intended is regular!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u27	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u28	Mr President, in order to conclude, in our view, this deregulated form not only distorts what is drug policy but also distorts what may be the reality of drug control and trafficking. [[Protests by members of BE Jorge Duarte Costa and Luís Monteiro.]] Mr. President, to conclude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u29	You really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u30	Now, yes, I will end by saying that these are two diplomas that basically want a little bit in the way of the Left Block and the Anim-Nature People's Party, and, as the PCP said, headlong, — regulating something that is, in the background, an old goal and dream, which is the legalization of cannabis for recreational consumption. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u31	by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today involves, more than political aspects, very specific technical aspects. The proposals of BE and the NAP concern the safety and health of our citizens and, as well, technical rigour, clarity and responsibility of the legislator are required. It is intended to legalize the medicinal use of cannabis, particularly through its consumption by smoking the plant by self-growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u33	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u34	The scientific evidence available, which has been rigorously analysed, does not point to cannabis, particularly if it is smoked, as a surplus against medicines already available — some of them, unfortunately and scandalously not available in Portugal — for therapeutic use of chronic pain, such as methadone or oxycodone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u35	These drugs are already used!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u36	The clinical experience, in the case of synthetic preparations in capsules or spray, that already exist and that some of us know and have used, also does not corroborate this alleged therapeutic superiority and alert up to the high risks that its use entails. In view of the current state of knowledge, the security and rigour that must preside over the discussion of these matters, it is not serious to create a pretentious social premence that does not exist, nor to make believe that there are thousands of Portuguese who would be cured or with much greater quality of life, surrounding the canabis of a false power — perhaps even miraculous — that it does not have. If what is intended is to propose the drug use of cannabis and its synthetic derivatives, then it is necessary to say that there is already legislation that allows the proper molecule to be submitted, and not a plant, to the appreciation of the agency of the medicinal product, Infarmed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u37	Infarmed has already authorized!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u38	... that has the ability and credibility to assess, safely, the efficacy and therapeutic value of it. It makes no sense a pseudo-modern legislation that does not ensure the safety of our patients and even endangers them. It would be, in our view, a huge irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u39	How do you intend to combine safety and quality control, strict drug policy with self-culture? How to explain this to the Portuguese? It does not make any sense and certainly is a step back. We are not moved by any prejudice, we are moved by the strict defence of the well-being of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u40	Look at that! It would be the first time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u41	Listen to the end, please! We welcome all the research that can deepen the current evidence that, we stress, does not point to cannabis as a further value in the treatment of various situations. That is why we will vote in favour of the draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party. May we reach new results which are likely to be translated into clear progress for patients, but certainly and properly covered by the rules of drug policy, which we are proud to defend. So it will be and so we will be able to treat our patients better. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u42	Mr Maria Antonio Almeida Santos spoke by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject that is currently under discussion, the legalization of cannabis for medicinal purposes, is not a matter of right or left, it is a matter where there is already a vast contribution and scientific evidence and, therefore, we are here in a serene, rational way to discuss it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u44	in this way, I would like to begin by congratulating the Left Block Parliamentary Group and the PAN for proposing the possibility of Portugal joining a large and large number of countries that have already regulated the medical use of this substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u46	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will allow Portugal to join these countries. We will allow you 90 years of delay — the first time the use of cannabis has been regulated for 90 years! And in order for all of us to know, there were, in fact, no effects to fear. We know that the cannabis substance, unlike others, has no lethal effect, there are no deaths directly associated with this substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u48	We know, as has already been evidenced by the various parliamentary groups, the beneficial effects of this substance, obviously treated, controlled, regulated, licensed and controlled. There are more than 10 000 studies that prove their effectiveness and that we should not fear, nor should we, of course, close the door to this possibility. There are no other discussions at stake, we are not mixing uses for recreational purposes with uses for medicinal purposes, that is not what this is about. Let's take this matter seriously. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue of dependencies, which has also been raised here, must be analyzed according to the cost-benefit to the patient. That is not the case with how many medicines we still need to prohibit their prescription? Oh, my God! Of course, the opiates and benzodiazepines, which most people have in their homes! [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] Many qualified professionals use opiates in their medical practice, know the substance well and know that there is scientific evidence. Not even the Order of Doctors—it's over! — it is against the legalization of this substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u49	It's true! On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u50	There are, in fact, studies, evidence. What are we afraid of, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Politics cannot deny science. We were told that this argument was invalid...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u51	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u52	I'm done now, Mr. President. This argument is most valid to me because in Portugal there are several patients, several people who suffer, who are waiting for this legalization. Therefore, this is a question of science and humanity, it is not a question of anything else. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u53	It is the turn of the Green Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is said to be proposed to Parliament today is the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, because its therapeutic effect is proven, in particular at the level of pain relief, nausea from chemotherapy, control of muscle spasms and seizures, among others. The existence of side effects is also proven, because it is a psychoactive substance, for example, to be able to potentiate panic and anxiety attacks, among other issues. in this framework, what is said to be being discussed today in Parliament is the controlled use of cannabis, in clinical circumstances determined, for therapeutic use, under medical guidance: the doctor prescribes, the pharmacist makes available and the patient consumes. So far, all right, and the controversy doesn't seem to be high. The problem is that the Block project — and the PAN project does not add anything to it — to the disease of controlled medicinal use, decentrates the discussion, because it allows the autoculture of cannabis, i.e. cultivation for its own consumption. We are not worth making ourselves naive, because, regardless of the position we have about the most restricted or wider use of cannabis, about the legalization or prohibition of its production and marketing, the fact is that the Block project ceases to confine itself to what its authors say, that is, the controlled use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, when reversed by the possibility of self-production. The Block must assume exactly what comes with the proposal it presents: if it intends to use the therapeutic dimension to allow the recreational use of cannabis, it cannot say that it restricts its proposal to medicinal use, because otherwise it does not make the discussion real and distorts the debate itself. The Greens do not have and do not see any problem with discussing anything, but they have to take on what is really being discussed. Regardless of the position we have on the use of cannabis, if we speak true we will all say that controlled therapeutic use is something different from the recreational use of cannabis.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u55	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u56	So what is required to know is what the Block really wants to propose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this framework, the position of The Greens in relation to the projects presented—and because we give the benefit of the doubt—will be the following: we will make it possible to discuss the projects for the special...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u58	...and it will be there that the true essence of the proposals will be revealed. Then, according to that, we will re-examine our position when the overall final vote on the projects takes place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u59	All right! That's a possibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u60	Let us not forget that what is assumed is the discussion of the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes, and that is the debate that has been said to be proposed to Parliament. [[Congratulations from The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u61	To conclude this debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion is serious, it is about health, it is about the right to health, it is not worth trying to find subterfuges. They said the Block presented a project that actually involves legalization for recreational purposes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to do so, we had presented a project for that purpose. We have already presented it in the past, we have no problems about it, and we would have-CL - presented it again. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u63	The project is about medical purposes, only that! Consider the example of Canada: in Canada, autoculture is possible, prescription is possible since 2001 and is only for medicinal purposes. That's what's at stake here. If there are problems about one or another aspect of the project we bring here, let's discuss them in the specialty, let's improve the diploma in the specialty, there's no problem. There is a problem in recognising that there is scientific evidence, there is a problem when it is recognised that it is beneficial for many people, for many patients, there is a problem when there are tens of thousands of patients waiting for this in Portugal and will try to postpone it for the future, with false pretexts, with false arguments, which have nothing to do with the proposals presented here. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u64	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the projects of lein.o 709 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February) ( The Greens) and 710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by assigning Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ). On behalf of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are bringing back to plenary today the need to consider on Tuesday Carnival as a compulsory national holiday, and they do so for three orders of reasons. First of all, because this day is culturally assimilated by people as a real holiday, which has led the Portuguese to plan, over time, an exit with the family, so many times even with early reserves of stays that it is necessary to guard. In this regard, it is recalled that the school schedule is organized on the basis of the holiday budget on Tuesday in Carnival, hence the interruption of the school year in that period — the Carnival school holidays. The Republican National Guard itself prepares in advance and puts on the ground the Carnival Operation, which ends at exactly 24 hours on Tuesday of Carnival. Secondly, because Carnival represents an important economic dynamization factor in many municipalities, such as Torres Vedras, Loulé, Sesimbra, Ovar, Canas de Signorim, Madeira, Alcobaça or Mealhada, among others dynamization that matters to guard, because it requires the municipalities themselves significant investments that have to be made with time and duly planned, it does not therefore sympathize with the uncertainty or indefinition up to the government's decision to consider whether or not Carnival Tuesday as a holiday, which usually happens only a few weeks before Carnival. We therefore find it unreasonable that municipalities and tourist operators themselves should be waiting for a government decision to carry out the necessary procedures with a view to an investment that requires months and months of preparation. Thirdly, with this proposal, the Greens intend to avoid situations like those that lived during the PSD/CDS government. In fact, the former government, ignoring the economic, social and cultural importance of this date in society and with the Portuguese population, not only strongly opposed the social, economic and cultural dynamics of various communities and localities, as it still created a truly charged and unique situation of terms of Carnival Tuesdays during which half Country was stopped and half Country was working, as shown by the fact that many of the municipalities had given point tolerance that day. But more: the part of the country that worked on those Tuesdays of Carnival did it only to "medium gas". And why? Because in those days there was no mail, since the CTTs were closed, and the banks did not get to open. This is not to mention the mobility difficulties of those who, in those days, had to work, since the collective labour agreements of most public transport companies consider Carnival Tuesday as a holiday and therefore present a much smaller offer in terms of public transport, i.e., they present their own offer of holidays. In addition, following the decisions of the PSD/CDS government, many municipalities expressed their concern because these decisions eventually resulted in a very significant reduction in the number of visitors, with serious economic consequences, and this concern was also expressed by the sectors of trade and tourism, which claimed serious damage in these areas. For all this, the Greens propose an amendment to the Labour Code, in order to include Carnival Tuesday in the list of compulsory holidays. Finally, and considering that the public consultation of this legislative initiative is not yet completed, the Greens want the vote on this initiative to take place only after that due procedure. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u66	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We bring back the debate a bill that aims to consecrated Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory holiday. Despite this being considered optional, a very significant part of the private sector companies add this day to the list of compulsory holidays and the Government has granted, except rare exceptions, point tolerance. The school calendar is also organized on the assumption that on Tuesday Carnival is considered a holiday, which leads many families to take advantage of this date to schedule their holidays. at a time when the parents are subjected to a hallucinating rhythm, working all day, with increasing professional requirements, that leave little time and availability to be with the children, we consider of the greatest importance measures that, like this, encourage and create effective conditions that allow the increase of the number of leisure periods in the family. Moreover, the dominant perception that high levels of productivity can only be achieved with high hourly loads has been proven to be rejected. It is a priority, accepted by all, that we need more time for the family and to live, not merely to survive. But this is a vision that has not yet found a way to harmonize with a model of society kidnapped by the markets, by the economic vision of work and by the mercantillization of time. In addition to all the events presented the Carnival is a festive season of great importance in the country, and are wholesome and community cultural celebrations and manifestations that must rise, unlike other anachronistic traditions, sick and violent that desecend and desensitize. in this sense, and for various reasons, in particular by strengthening family time and positive impacts on local economies, we propose that Carnival be included on the list of compulsory holidays on Tuesday. In short, in this society, more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u68	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Carnival is an important tradition in several municipalities in the country. As everyone knows, celebrate in several places with great enthusiasm, such as Mealhada, Estarreja, Ovar, Torres Vedras, Loulé, Madeira, and, as we called attention to the previous Legislative Session, when we discussed exactly the same bills of The Greens and the PAN, Carnival always celebrated within the current legal framework, which seems to us clearly sufficient. There were times when he celebrated more, others where he celebrated less, there are places in the country where he celebrates more, others where he celebrates less, but the truth is that the current model, now as a municipal holiday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u70	It's not a municipal holiday!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u71	... if it is included in the collective contract, now that there is tolerance of point — be decreed by the government, whether by authorities or by companies — it seems to us clearly enough and has allowed Carnival to be duly celebrated, always with the same enthusiasm, at the various points in the country where it is tradition that the same takes place. We therefore believe that this framework does not need to be amended at the moment. The current national holiday framework is sufficient. The Greens mention the difficult times in which there was a need to suspend holidays,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u72	It's hard for just a few!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u73	... but these holidays have already been restored, and we consider that it is time for the Portuguese to have some stability in their lives, at the holidays they have to celebrate. Moreover, any change to these holidays should, in our view, always be the subject of social dialogue and understanding between the social partners, and also, if we are talking about religious holidays, understanding with the Church or the Churches. Now, to the desire for stability that we feel in Portugal regarding holidays, The Greens and the NAP respond with the re-presentation of projects of the previous Legislative Session in exactly the opposite direction, as we have already called attention a year ago. We know that «is Carnival, no one leads to evil», but so the Greens and the PAN...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u74	Today he also says the same thing he said a year ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u75	... you will not be surprised that the CDS maintains exactly the same sense of vote as it expressed in the previous Legislative Session in relation to the same projects. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u76	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that all of us and the whole country recognize the importance of Carnival, a date that has been made tradition, which implies the preparation, in many municipalities, in many parts of the country, of celebrations, parades, and that it has been internalized by the Portuguese population as a holiday. The generality of the municipalities recognises it as a holiday and the government has also recognized it by office. The question is whether or not this holiday should be included in the law as a compulsory holiday or whether it should be subject to a decision, year by year, of each Government. That is the point. Mr. CDS-PP said that the model that exists has, in good sense, resolved the right that people have to celebrate Carnival. Mr President, it would be true if there had not been a CDS / PSD government which just did not allow the Portuguese to enjoy the holiday. It is because there are governments like the PSD / CDS that we need to do this discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We need to make this discussion, because we live the cartoon situation in the previous period, when one part of the country could enjoy the holiday and another no, in which populations who had prepared the Carnival holiday did not see this holiday recognized. So, in the Left Block, we only see the advantage of clarifying that on Tuesday's Carnival is holiday, because that means respecting the time to live. And defending time to live, leisure time, time to be with the family, time to celebrate is in itself a valid design, a justifiable design. We defend these projects for respect for Carnival as a public party, as a holiday, as a ritual of reversal, of parties where social roles are reversed, where the right to satire is exercised, which is also one of the characteristics of Carnival, and, finally, for a question of predictability, uniformity and stability, because precisely what these projects allow is that there is stability in the way the Country relates to this date and in the recognition of Carnival as a holiday. That's what these projects propose, and that's why the Left Block accompanies them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u78	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two bills, one of the NAPs and another of The Greens, which aim to consecrated Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. This issue is not new, nor is it new the position of the Socialist Party. It is widely recognized by all that Carnival is an important feast for Portuguese, for cultural, social and even economic reasons, and represents, from a cultural point of view, a ritual of renewal of the common life of a people, who over the centuries celebrates it in a climate of celebration and exaltation. These events represent, from an economic point of view, an opportunity for economic actors, especially in the fields of trade, restoration and tourism, to take advantage of and adapt to the needs of their customers and consumers. from a social point of view, this pagan holiday is a moment of revitalization of communities where the activity is celebrated, being another opportunity of meeting and leisure, so that the activity of schools is interrupted to provide not only a pause for the evaluations, but also enjoy it, by families, a short holiday period. With regard to the importance of this holiday, it is important to highlight the strengthening by the State of the security device mounted each year by the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), either on the roads or in places where large courses are held, which require particular attention to the safety of people. in this case, they are officials of the state who are at the service on the rest day of the Portuguese. In view of this reality, well described by the parties proposing the draft laws under consideration, the State, whether in the central administration or in the local administration, has chosen to grant employees a point tolerance on Tuesday of Carnival. This formula has allowed the Carnival celebration to take place without damaging the cultural, social and economic dynamics already stated. It is noted that the previous government did not only do so as it eliminated other holidays of enormous social and cultural relevance, such as April 25 or 1. the May situation that the current government has reversed, thus restoring the dignity that these dates impose on Portuguese society. On the other hand, the Labour Code provides this day as an optional holiday, sufficient for this an agreement between the workers and the employer and there are several collective bargaining instruments that regard this day as a holiday for the workers covered by it. The granting of point tolerance is a clear manifestation of the Government's recognition of the importance of this holiday. thus, the PS government complied with what it committed to its Government Programme, against the will of the right, and reintroduces the four mandatory holidays and suppressed by the previous government, seizing rights acquired by the Portuguese... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u80	...and respecting the dignity of democracy and national values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u81	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The replacement of four holidays, two civil holidays and two religious holidays, which had been withdrawn, with more than three days of vacation, to the workers by the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas and here in the Assembly, by the PSD and CDS benches was particularly important because it represented the replacement of fundamental rights and four days of rest for the workers. We remember what the PSD and CDS said about this at this time, that they did not want the holidays to be replaced. We are also reminded of what the employers' confederations have said about this, that they did not want the holidays to be replaced. And they didn't want to because they knew that, in the case of holiday consecration, in case of work, they would have to pay that day of work as a holiday, and they didn't want to do it. For this reason, we must not forget that the withdrawal of four holidays and three days of vacation, by the revision of the Labour Code in 2012, was a week that robbed the workers and forced them to work at a balance price. Therefore, we understand that the replacement of the four holidays was very important, that conditions are met to go further and that it is very important to be able to take this step forward. Mr José Rui Cruz said that this proposal is not new, because no, this proposal by the Greens Ecological Party has already been discussed. This proposal has not been adopted in the past, but we believe that there are all the conditions for adoption in the present. There is not a single argument from an economic, social or cultural point of view justifying not dedicating Carnival Tuesday as a national compulsory holiday. I repeat: there is no reason, except to be a backward and backward perspective of Portuguese society and leisure time and working time. of the PCP there is no error: the consecration of Tuesday of Carnival as a national compulsory holiday is to elementary justice and this step must be taken forward. May the PSD and the CDS tell us that they do not agree with this replacement until we understand, because it comes from those who understood that the withdrawal of holidays and holidays is that it was the way to the country, it comes from those who understood that the withdrawal of wages and working conditions is that it was the way to the country. Now, the PS does not follow this proposal, we understand that it is deeply negative, because there were conditions. In fact, there are even municipalities in the PS where this tradition has deep roots and realize that the lives of people and families cannot be subject to such instability that it is never known whether or not there is point tolerance for the Public Administration and for the private. Therefore, for our part to be clear, we follow this proposal and we understand that there is no argument that it is not guaranteed on Tuesday in Carnival as a national compulsory holiday. As the Green Party said, this issue is not going to be voted on today because it has not yet finished the public discussion period, but we understand that, by the end of the public discussion period, this issue will be voted on in this House, and the PS is making time to decide...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u83	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u84	... if you want to be with the PSD and the CDS or if you want to follow a progressive measure of recovery of labour and the national economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u85	Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there are no misconceptions, Mrs Rita Rato. The Ecological Party « The Greens » and the PAN bring to the Assembly, not for the first time, the institution of Tuesday Carnival as a compulsory holiday, and today, according to the Labour Code, is an optional holiday. We see this repetition as a manifestation of coherence, it is an understanding that the Greens Ecological Party and the NAP have already expressed here. We have already had, a year and a week ago, this same discussion, and, in the demonstration of coherence, knows the House and knows the country, and we reaffirm that, for the PSD, the subject of holidays should be treated in social consultation. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u87	You know why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because first, we believe in social consultation, which is something that distinguishes us very clearly...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u88	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u89	... and it matters very much - secondly, the Socialist Party needs to believe from time to time and, finally, everyone will know what to say. But in the defence of social dialogue, we recognize in the proposals presented here the goodness of the argumentation of predictability, particularly in the question of school holidays and in the "Carnaval Operation" of the GNR. It is therefore the Government that decides in social consultation and that it undertakes a commitment to provide the necessary predictability and to ensure that the people and the identities they refer to are able to organize their lives. It is therefore up to the Government, supported by the Socialist Party, to say so, to decide in social consultation more than two weeks earlier, which is what they invoke here. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u90	So we don't see the big issue here either, because, you see, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr André Silva, even solved the problem of economic dynamisation and predictability. This is because in social dialogue, where workers, employers and the government are, objectively, there is consideration of what is the overall impact on the economy. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] If it is so true what they say, it would certainly be approved in social consultation. I would also like it to be clear, it was expectable, the question that « the CDS and the PSD, these wicked people, stole our holidays ». [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] [[And they stole!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u91	First, the PSD and the CDS had, yes, to suspend holidays because of the disaster in which the Socialist Party left the country. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think we liked this? I can assure you that no, but the sense of state is not the most common sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u92	They think the Portuguese liked it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? No, they didn't like it, but they understood! The previous government suspended the holidays, but none of the parties here who accuse us of stealing the holidays had more votes than we did when the Portuguese were called to demonstrate this understanding. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]] Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can continue to speak of the previous government until exhaustion and we cannot say that we have won the elections are not valid. The truth is the truth! [[PSD applause.]] The truth is the truth and none of the programmes presented to the elections had more votes than the programme presented by the party that supported the previous government. Finally, Mrs. Mr Rita Rato and Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, if they so demand, if it is so important for you, who support this government, I ask: is it a red line or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u93	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u94	That is because if it were so important it had been a red line and the Socialist Party's Government would have already approved what you say is the most important thing, and important protestant, which is the inclusion of Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory holiday. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this idea « to the Left Block », to approve an Budget saying that there is no word of honour in the Government and then vote in favour of it...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u95	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u96	... that is to say here that they are very against this position of the Socialist Party but then they will continue to support it, no longer serves, it is pure electoralism and no one sees itself. If it's very important, demand it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u97	To conclude this item on the agenda, Mr Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u98	Mr President, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, if the right has won the elections, why is it not government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u99	You had more votes! Any of the parties had more votes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u100	If the right has won the elections, why don't you have a majority in this House? [[PSD protests.]] There is indeed a political majority that corresponds to a majority in the country. There was a majority in the country who did not vote in the PSD and CDS. Moreover, the majority sighed relief from being free from the PSD and CDS in the government and also breathed relief when the four holidays were returned to the workers, which, yes, the PSD and CDS stole from the workers, forcing them to work more days, without receiving more for that and giving a favor to the employers under the pressure of Chancellor Angela Merkel. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, Mrs. Member, you can take the rounds you want and the PSD and the CDS until you come here to say that you respect very much the Carnival traditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u101	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u102	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the PSD and the CDS may even come to say that they respect Carnival traditions very much but do not want to sign the Carnival holiday as a mandatory holiday, as when they were in the government they prevented the Portuguese from enjoying the Carnival holiday. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u103	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the discussion of the projects of lein.o 709 and 710 / XIII ( 3. ( a). Let us turn to the appraisal of petition No 208 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request participation in the acquisition of glucose level measurement equipment by individuals with diabetes (Sérgio Tavares da Silva et al.) together with resolution projects 1220 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government expedite the assessment of devices and equipment for the control of diabetes mellitus ( PCP ) and 1226 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sharing of systems for monitoring and treatment of diabetes ( The Greens ). [[At this time, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u104	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the promoters of petition No 208 / XIII ( 2. a ), which require participation in the acquisition of glucose-level measurement equipment by individuals with diabetes, and also the more than 11 000 subscribers who, through this petition, seek solutions for a better quality of life with their disease. The CFP Parliamentary Group has already met with the promoters and has promoted parliamentary intervention on the subject. in the discussion of this petition, the CFP wanted to present a draft resolution expressing its concern about this matter. Studies indicate that diabetes mellitus reaches more than 13% of the Portuguese population, but also advance that more than 40% of the population will be to be diagnosed. This prevalence is far above many countries and also the OECD average. The high prevalence of diabetes is a problem, given, inter alia, the number, multiplicity and severity of chronic complications associated with the disease, such as diabetic foot, chronic kidney disease, diabetic retinopathy, macrovascular disease. Complications that cause high morbidity, take quality of life and lead to premature death. The best way to delay the installation of chronic complications is through efficient control of blood glucose and its maintenance at balanced levels. The control of diabetes involves adequate health responses, strengthening and training of the National Health Service and creating better economic, social and cultural conditions for access to adequate and healthy food. On all these issues, the CFP Parliamentary Group has come to intervene and submit proposals, which highlights the draft resolution entitled « Strengthening public responses in the area of diabetes », which was approved and gave rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 93 / 2016. But adequate control of disease and blood glucose do not also prevent patients from having access to devices and equipment that improve blood glucose assessment and control processes. The most generalised control processes include the regular use of capillary blood, which requires availability, is an uncomfortable and difficult process for children. Therefore, whenever more painful and efficient new ways of evaluation arise, patients are anxious for their generalization. The CFP advocates access to therapy, whether it is medicinal or from medical devices, including innovators, when there is scientific and clinical evidence of its advantage, as well as it argues that the State should take the necessary measures to always safeguard public interests and not be held hostage to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. This is the context in which the CFP proposes that the assessment process of the continuous glucose monitoring device to be completed quickly in Infarmed should be completed. We also propose that mechanisms be developed to facilitate the evaluation of devices and equipment that improve the control of diabetes mellitus. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecologist Party would like to begin by greeting the subscribers of petition No 208 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) which brings again the matter of the rights of diabetics to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the Assembly of the Republic has been monitoring this matter and has produced a number of resolutions in order to require the Government to strengthen measures to prevent, control and treat diabetes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, health prevention policies are, for the Greens, extremely important in defining national health policy. The Greens have presented in the Assembly of the Republic a number of legislative initiatives aimed at more effective action on, for example, eating habits of which are obvious benefits, particularly at the level of primary prevention of diabetes. We have already presented projects relating to the advertising of food for children, the promotion of fruit at school bars and also the ban on the sale of sugared foods and excess salt in automatic sales machines. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolution which The Greens are now presenting, and which goes in the direction of what is requested in the petition, has your concern about the patients who have already been diagnosed with diabetes. We must be aware that diabetes is a disease with a large and growing incidence in Portugal, which is worrying: about 13% of the population has diabetes, which represents around 1 million Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to control blood glucose levels, diabetics need to kick their fingers several times a day in a process that they say is indeed painful. The existence of alternatives for less invasive methods is quite desired by the patients who have to resort to them. The existence of devices that allow constant monitoring of the disease is an element that can effectively improve the quality of life of many diabetics. in this sense, its participation by the National Health Service must also be considered by the government in order to allow greater accessibility. It is precisely in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Greens bring a draft resolution to the Assembly of the Republic that recommends to the Government to strengthen the participation of insulin pumps or the continuous infusion system of insulin so as to cover a greater number of patients, with priority for children and also for adults with type 1 diabetes. On the other hand, the draft resolution also recommends that the Government evaluate and place the participation of non-evasive glycaemic monitoring systems, in particular for people with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetics under insulin therapy. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome, on behalf of the CDS-PP, the subscribers of this petition, which once again give us the opportunity to address in Parliament the problem of diabetes, which, as we know, has already been said, reaches about 13 % of the Portuguese population and, if not properly controlled, is the cause of numerous complications and serious problems, not only in terms of quality of life but also, as often happens, with regard to life itself. Moreover, this disease also costs countless and heavy direct and indirect costs from a financial point of view, as the value of EUR 1500 million is estimated for the treatment of diabetes, as well as in terms of absenteeism, unemployment and support for the patient's family. In this regard, I take advantage of the invaluable work that the Association Protector of Diabetics of Portugal has been developing since 1926 in this crusade against diabetes, a crusade which has also been recognized by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation itself, which, in its report A Future for Health, made in 2014, highlighted diabetes as one of the challenges for the coming years in order to sustain the growth of the prevalence of this disease. Of course, we cannot speak in diabetes without insisting on the issue of prevention. A joint effort must be made in several areas, such as education and literacy for health. One of the most important aspects with regard to prevention is child obesity, which has already been addressed here, and which affects about 11, 7% of Portuguese children, and 30, 7% of them are already overweight. It is urgent to work with children to prevent the increase in diabetes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u111	As already mentioned, diabetes needs to be done more and better. Therefore, if there are already devices, such as those mentioned in this petition, which allow for more quality of life, better and more adequate monitoring and easier treatment, it is necessary to ensure that the Government promotes access to these devices by most of the population with the disease diagnosed with appropriate authorities, including Infarmed. We welcome the fact that since November 2017 there has been an agreement for greater participation, 85 %, with regard to patients with type 1 diabetes, including children over 4 years of age. We understand that this has already been a step, but there must continue to be an assessment, in terms of cost-benefit, for participation to be extended to a greater number of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u112	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u113	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that if we already welcome this enlargement in terms of participation, we also believe that there must be an effort to ensure that all medicines and devices represent a greater capacity for self-management and monitoring for diabetics. This is certainly a crusade that we must all support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u114	For an intervention, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems to me that it is the opportunity to bring good news to Parliament. Today, it is a day of good news, of course for the petitioners, to whom I greet duly. I greet them for the civic attitude that led them to gather more than 12,000 signatures, and I also greet them for the opportunity of the petition, whose discussion arises on the exact day — what a magnificent coincidence! — in which the Government publishes the portae setting the maximum value of the sensor for the determination of interstitial glucose and ensures the participation of the State by 85 % for its acquisition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is good news for all, including the CFP and the Greens, who have presented draft resolutions, which proves that the government, if it does not go forward, is at least in line with the concern of the patients. Therefore, this is a good news day for Portuguese people and, in particular, for Portuguese people with type 1 diabetes, who have, from today onwards, the portfolio has been published and has effects from January 8th — access to expensive equipment, which costs EUR 53, for only 15% of its commercial value. This measure is particularly relevant because this new medical device dispenses the bite, dispenses the intrusion of a needle in the body, eliminates pain, often daily and particularly traumatic pain when we think about children and young people. The participation of 85 % of this new medical device also deserves a greeting to the Government and the Ministry of Health, which once again demonstrate concern and commitment to the valorization of the National Health Service, the continued commitment to innovation and the improvement of the quality of life and comfort of Portuguese people. We are talking about a medical device that can be classified as expensive — I repeat, it costs EUR 53 — and that will be shared by the State by 85 % and that only this year, it is estimated, can be used by 15 000 Portuguese. We are therefore describing a political choice, an option with an impact from the financial point of view that is not lacking. And this is all the more relevant when we all know that the country continues to live with budgetary limitations and to need strict and careful management, which, fortunately, has, without ever neglecting the principle that the act of governance is done not for numbers but for people. The PS and the PS-supported government want good public accounts so they can give good news to the Portuguese. The prompt evaluation and prompt decision of the Ministry of Health for the participation of this new medical device for the measurement of blood glucose rate is a good example that people are first. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u116	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed a petition in which more than 11 000 Portuguese citizens request participation in the acquisition of equipment for the measurement of glucose levels by individuals with diabetes, a petition with which the PSD Parliamentary Group naturally agrees. This is a device with an innovative technology that allows to make diabetes control easier and less evasive, since it prevents patients from having to kick their fingers to measure their blood glucose levels every day. I would therefore like to welcome each and every one of these petitioners and regret that the assessment of their claim by this House has taken more than one year to take place. But, worse than this waiting time, it is still the fact that the government has taken more than one year and a half to approve the participation of that device and, coincidentally, has been approved today. However, they prevent VV. Ex., and you know this, over these two and a half years of governance and after three State budgets, that many people with this disease could improve their quality of life due to lack of economic resources. In fact, the initial equipment represents a charge of about 170 € and a sensor for every 14 days costs about 60 €, which means a monthly expenditure of more than 120 €, and it was easily perceived that it was inappropriate for many families. in this area, we must bear in mind the fact that there are about 1, 2 million people with diabetes in Portugal, of which about 4000 die every year because of this disease. On the other hand, if it is true that the number of amputations caused by the so-called ‘diabetic foot’ decreased almost 37 % between 2010 and 2016, more than 1000 amputations were carried out only in the last year, which still results in an alarmingly high number. Early diagnosis and prevention are therefore fundamental aspects of combating diabetes and it was not acceptable for the government's lack of investment in this area to follow up, because it still has, the degradation of the living conditions of so many Portuguese. We need to invest even more in preventive medicine and screenings, but also in promoting healthy lifestyles, because only then can we reverse the average annual growth trend of this incidence rate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament today appreciates two draft resolutions that once again recommend to the Government what has been recommended to it for a long time and should be done for a long time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u118	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the many thousands of petitioners who went to the Assembly of the Republic requesting the participation of the glucose meter without pressing. It is a claim that, for the Left Block, makes all the sense, because it improves regular control of glucose levels, because it is less invasive and painful and because it prevents future complications. The complications associated with diabetes, as we all know, are many and some of them can be avoided or prevented with better control of glucose levels, including cataracts, blindness, poor circulation, heart problems, heart disease, heart disease, kidney problems, neuropathies and amputations. All of this can be avoided if there is better control of the disease, which this device allows to do. Therefore, we obviously follow this petition and its objectives, not ignoring that Infarmed had already decided, and well, participation by 85 % in the acquisition of this device, which will cover about 15 000 patients with type 1 diabetes. This decision and evaluation of Infarmed arises after this petition and we believe that both the petition and the petitioners have contributed decisively to this outcome, so they certainly are of congratulations for the work they have done. [[Right now, there's a little burb in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u120	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, I apologize for interrupting, but I want to ask Mr. Members who create conditions for us to hear Mr Moisés Ferreira, because the background noise is enormous. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u121	Mr President, as I was saying, the petitioners are certainly happy for the civic work they have done, for their participation and that led to this outcome, to this decision by Infarmed. however, the Left Block believes that there is still a lot of work to be done in the field of diabetes, in particular an assessment of the impact of this measure, which the Government must now do, of the participation of this non-measuring glucose meter, with the prospect of extending to other patients, including people with type 2 diabetes and who are also insulin-dependent. We cannot forget, too, another measure, which is not exactly this one claimed here, which is very important for the control of diabetes and which has to do with insulin pumps. It is a draft resolution which was presented here in 2017 by the Left Block, was approved and gave rise to a legislative initiative by the Government, but has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u122	It wasn't just this one, it was several!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u123	This is because what the government had before it was that the participation of these insulin pumps, for children and young people of paediatric age, would be done annually, also extending the group of young people benefiting from this participation and the free allocation of these bombs. This year, insulin pumps should be attributed to all young people with type 1 diabetes up to 14 years of age. This is what we expect from the Government, that is what we say is necessary, so that it will not happen like last year, in which a whole year has been spent without respect for this resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u124	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the third item on the agenda, which was the discussion of petition No 208 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) together with draft resolutions 1220 and 1226 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We turn to the assessment of petition No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request that follow-up in childbirth be reported to the couple (mother and father) ( Sandra Cristina dos Santos de Oliveira and others). For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the subscribers of this petition, which bring to the debate in Parliament once again the subject of follow-up in childbirth. with regard to support for maternity, the right of pregnant women to the best health care and follow-up during delivery, the position of the CDS is known and clear: pregnant women cannot be prevented from following during delivery and during labor. Until, in the scheduled cesarean sections and without added risks, guaranteed that security conditions are in the care, this can only happen. The right to follow-up during all stages of labor is, as is known, enshrined in Article 12(2) of Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March 2014. As we have come to say on other occasions when this issue was discussed, we understand that the right to follow up during delivery at nothing affects the maintenance of the good rules of surgical practice that all health institutions, whether public or private, should observe. As regards the number of follow-ups at the time of delivery, extending the right of such follow-up also to the father, provided that the team of health professionals is given the assurance that the safety of the mother and the baby are not concerned, provided that the rules for control and prevention of hospital infection are met and that the mother has previously granted this authorization in the process of informed consent, we believe that this right can, of course, be granted within the limits of reasonableness as regards the number of persons concerned. It says the petition that the father—as has been said, in accordance with the law, the father already has the right to accompany his mother in labor—if he feels, often, in a situation of weakness, lacking himself, someone who supports him. Now, the birth of a child, birth, is one of the most striking moments in the life of a woman, a couple and a family structure. As we have already mentioned, being a natural physiological process, it is not, however, free of risks, even in cases where pregnancy occurred normally. As you know, at any time, either during labor or at the time of expulsion, there may be a complication, which cannot always be predicted and which can bring serious consequences for both the mother and the baby. So the safety of mother and baby must always be guarded. Let us not forget that delivery without risk is the one that has already been! Portugal is from countries with a lower rate of birth mortality. We are a country of reference worldwide in matters of maternal and child health. We must welcome the many positive developments that have taken place in recent decades, but we will not fail to fight for the improvements that still have to take place in this area. For the CDS, the safety of mother and baby are, always and in any circumstances, first. It is essential to ensure quality clinical care in any circumstance, and this is to ensure that such a significant, important and happy moment does not turn into a painful moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u126	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u127	I conclude, Mr President, by repeating once again what we have already mentioned: the CDS defends more and better health care, better support for maternity and the humanization of care activity, in the certainty that what for the CDS is fundamental, that is, people are even at the center of the health system. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Right now, there's a little burb in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u128	Before I give the floor to Mrs Laura Magalhães, I ask the public present in the galleries the same silence that I have recently asked Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Laura Magalhães, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) of the initiative of Mrs Sandra de Oliveira and which has been subscribed by more than 83,000 petitioners who request that follow-up in childbirth be reported to the couple, meaning this as the mother and father. In other words, petitioners want to amend Law No. 15 / 2014, a diploma that consolidates the legislation on the rights and duties of the health services user, in order to enable the recognition of the right of the couple's follow-up, and not only of the pregnant woman, for more than one person. in the view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, this Act constitutes an important milestone in the progress of the rights of users of health services. in this diploma, the right to follow up the pregnant woman during all stages of childbirth and by any person chosen for themselves was clarified. It was also stipulated that this right may be exercised regardless of the period of the day or night on which the work of childbirth occurs and that the companion is free to comply with the hospital rules of visit, as well as the payment of the moderate fees. However, the claim of the petition is not properly expressed in this legal diploma and, consequently, according to the petitioners, in practice, it is found that some hospital units impose restrictions, in particular on the possibility of exchange of companions. The PSD considers that the matter brought today by more than 80 000 citizens deserves all thought. in fact, provided that the safety of the parturient and the privacy of other women in the same health care facility is guaranteed, provided that the obstetrician physician does not consider it uncondescending and, of course, provided that the facilities are consistent with the presence of another companion beyond the father, there is no reason for the proposal in the presence not to be evaluated. in the view of the PSD, the Government's response to the information requested by the rapporteur Member of this petition, which she has sent to you in due course, is not satisfactory, and is not satisfactory because the Government is simply transcribing the legislation in force, not giving its opinion on the extension of rights in the presence. in this sense, and because this petition has a relevant technical component, it is important that the Assembly of the Republic try to insist with the Government for a thorough clarification on the feasibility of what is proposed to us. The PSD will therefore seek answers from the Executive and obtain technical information on the extent to which pregnant women's rights may be strengthened during childbirth, in particular on the possibility of the exchange of pregnant women's companion when the child's claim is made. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u130	Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, petition No 227 / XIII ( 2. a ) is first subscribed by Sandra Cristina Santos de Oliveira and by 83,678 citizens. With this petition, the subscribers want the follow-up of the birth to be reported both to the mother and to the father. in the context of the hearings we have conducted for the preparation of this report, we have heard many of its subscribers, namely its first subscriber, who, here I refer to, exercises in Portugal the doula activity, an activity of emotional follow-up in pregnancy and childbirth that cannot be confused with that of midwife, since it does not have technical skills for this. In other words, what is intended with this petition, in addition to the companion provided for in Law No. 15 / 2014, which can be both the father and any other person of the choice of the pregnant woman — that is the law that says it and, therefore, is to be fulfilled by everyone – is that another companion is introduced. Now, the Socialist Party is obviously sensitive to all these issues, it aims and defends that the pregnant woman has at her disposal all the clinical, emotional and emotional support and will therefore also be open to this discussion. However, it should always be considered and evaluated if the presence of a third person in the act of childbirth does not call into question the necessary clinical actions, clinical performance techniques for response to unexpected complications and also compliance with the rules for control and prevention of hospital infections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u132	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers and subscribers of this petition and saying that for the Left Block it is fundamental to humanization of services, in particular the humanization of the National Health Service, and we know that users, in addition to users, are people and must be treated as such. Therefore, the right to follow-up and legal recognition of this right were very important steps in relation to the humanization of services and the National Health Service. We have information—many of them are public—that, in many hospitals, the right to follow-up is not being respected in many services, but we believe that it should not only be respected as it can and should be extended, provided that this does not bring any security problem to users nor any problem of service operationality. At the moment, there is a working group in the Committee on Health to discuss some legislative initiatives that exist on these issues, which actually accompany the demands, recommendations, the petitioners and the petitioners make to the Assembly of the Republic. I would just like to be very clear about the position of the Left Block in this working group. The Left Block will be in favour of strengthening and extending the right to follow-up, provided that this extension of the right to follow-up does not jeopardise the safety of the parturient, the services and its functioning. As this is guaranteed and guaranteed that health units can correspond to this extension of the right to follow-up, the Left Block will of course be in favour. That is the compromise we have also left in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the signatories of the petition under discussion on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party. The right to health care for pregnant women and to hospital delivery integrate a wide set of sexual and reproductive rights won in Portugal with the April Revolution. The creation of the National Health Service and the dissemination of health care by the country, including the improvement of the care provided at the level of maternal and child health, meant, among other aspects, the increase of life expectancy, the reduction of infant and maternal mortality and the promotion of health. On the rights of maternity and p paternity, on the rights of maternity and paternity rights, on the rights of maternity and p paternity, on the rights of pregnant, expect and paternity, on the rights of pregnant, expect and paternity, on the rights of pregnant, expect and breastfeeding, on maternal-child-child-child-child-child health, the CCP has a wide range of intervention heritage and specific proposals such as: the guarantee of follow-up by the future father to pregnant women during childbirth; the right of special leave in situations of pregnancy; the protection of mothers and nursing and nursing and nursing and breastfeeding children's health; the creation of a specific maternity and child-child-child-child-child-childcare permit; the creation of a specific leave of pre-preterm leave or hospital leave or hospital leave of the newborn newborns, and specific proposals, and specific proposals such as: the extended maternity leave of the newborn and paternity leave leave of the woman from 6 to 9 weeks to 9 weeks and the maternity leave of 9 weeks; the maternity leave of 10 to 20 to 20 days; the optional days; the free free free free free free of leave; the right of leave of leave, the period of leave, the period of 150 or 180 or 180 or 180 days; the right to life; the right to be provided; the right to be guaranteed; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided, the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided; the right to be provided; the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the right to be provided, the More recently, we presented a parliamentary initiative, which was approved here, consolidating an extended set of measures strengthening the follow-up of pregnant and puerpera women in the National Health Service. They are subjects on which the CFP has been approached and acting regularly. Being sensitive to the questions raised in this petition, we cannot fail to mention that the law already provides for the existence of a companion in childbirth, to be decided by the couple, and we cannot fail to mention that the presence of companions during childbirth cannot limit, prevent or collide with the actions and decisions of the medical team present. The responsibility of the delivery process is the medical team, which must have all the conditions to perform its duties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of sexual and reproductive rights of motherhood and paternity, the follow-up of pregnant women, are inseparable from the affirmation of important civilizational achievements they constitute. Its realization in everyday life is inseparable from cross-cutting measures in education, health, employment and social protection. It has been in this sense that the CFP has intervened, defending the deepening of the rights of motherhood, paternity and parental sharing. It is precisely in this sense that we will continue to intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u136	Mrs. Members, we have thus reached the end of point 4 of our agenda, with the appreciation of petition No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We now move to point five, with the assessment of petition No 285/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the allocation of a risk allowance to the professionals of the Public Security Police ( PSP ) ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ( ASPP / PSP ) together with draft resolution No 1225 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Allocation of the risk allowance to PSP ( The Greens ) professionals. Before giving the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira to present the draft resolution, he asked the various parliamentary groups to register, because, in addition to Mr. José Luís Ferreira's request for a word, there is no further inscription. You have the floor, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no need for a great effort to recognize that PSP professionals develop an activity during which, and on most occasions, they are subjected to great stress, a work that requires the use of firearms and that needs to be developed, regardless of climate conditions. In addition, PSP professionals, men and women who work every day and every hour to ensure democratic normality and to ensure life in society, are, in the exercise of their functions, subject to a real risk to their physical integrity and even to their own life, risk, in fact, that tends to gain new dimensions, since physical aggression numbers to PSP professionals have been increasing. It is recalled that, on average, according to official data for 2016, five agents are attacked per day. On the other hand, although violent crime in recent years has declined statistically, the truth is that this crime is now more organized, more sophisticated and even more violent, which naturally contributes to enhancing the risk in the exercise of the functions of PSP professionals. In fact, whether loaded or not, with or without a weapon, night or day, the risks to which these professionals are subject are absolutely unquestionable. In fact, the recognition of the risk associated with the performance of the functions of these professionals is expressed in the legislative plan, from the very professional status of the PSP, where it is textually stated that the police condition is characterized, and I quote, « by subjecting to the risks arising from the fulfilment of the missions committed to the PSP ; ». In the same diploma, we can read that, and I quote, "Polices benefit from the remuneration supplements, (...) given on the basis of the particular conditions of requirement related to the concrete performance of duties and performance of functions which involve, inter alia, penosity, insanity, risk and physical and psychological wear. Do not keep on seeking. ” It happens that, despite social and legal recognition, these professionals continue to perform their duties today without any allocation of their respective and fair risk allowance. However, if we all recognize that, within the framework of the performance of their functions, PSP professionals are subject to a high risk, if even in the legislative level this recognition is made, the effective realization of this recognition is lacking, i.e., the effective allocation of the risk allowance to PSP professionals. It is therefore important to overcome this failure, to remove this injustice, and that is exactly the meaning of this Green legislative initiative. Thus, in order to respond to the injustice that continues to fall on PSP professionals and at the same time seeking to meet the petition promoted by ASPP / PSP, which, on behalf of The Greens, uses to greet, as well as the thousands of subscribers who have given it body, The Greens, with its legislative initiative, intend to recommend to the Government that the risk subsidy be awarded to the Public Security Police professionals. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u138	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners and all the men and women professionals of the Public Security Police. We know of the difficulties in the exercise of the functions of these men and women. We know of lack of material conditions, degraded teams, obsolete equipment, end-of-life cars or lack of them. We know the risks and demands of the profession. We know that the capabilities and resistance of these men and women are tested every day. We know of low wages in a profession that requires so much of each and every one. It is also noted that they are those and those whose professions guarantee us all and all the security and protection that is constitutionally endorsed to us, often at risk for their own safety and for their own life, who receive the lowest wages in our country. They are the professionals of the security forces and services and the professionals of Civil Protection. That is why we understand the arguments and demands of the petitioners. What we do not understand, for example, is how the remuneration supplements provided for in the professional status of the PSP, the service supplements, the patrol supplements, shift and picket, of command, based on the special arrangements for the provision of work, the permanent availability and burden of restrictions inherent to the police condition where, obviously, the risks arising from the performance of the mission remain, more than two years later, without being regulated. Article 142. the professional status of the PSP determines that the regulation of the subject matter of remuneration supplements, in particular the amount and conditions of allocation, is subject to its own diploma. But so far nothing has happened. These remuneration supplements have not been updated since 2009. If we add to this the cuts imposed during the PSD and CDS government and the low wages practised, we draw an obvious conclusion: the total disrespect of successive governments for the dignity of these workers and workers and for the exercise of their mission. We therefore express all solidarity and affirm the willingness of the Left Block to support the fair demands of workers and workers of security forces and services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u140	Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party wants to begin by greeting the petitioners of the Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ( ASPP / PSP ), some of whom are present here in the galleries, by petition No. 285 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which has collected more than 7400 signatures and which places on the table, for discussion in this Parliament, the allocation of a risk allowance to PSP professionals. They say the petitioners, in a very fair way and that we subscribe, who, and I quote, "This petition represents the will that there is of recognition and compensation for the risks of life that the Police Professionals run in the current scenario in the execution of this mission. It is in this spirit..." — the petitioners continue to say — «..., so that justice may be done to men and women who work every day to ensure the democratic normality of life in society, which brings the petition in question. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party subscribes to the petition in question. Indeed, PSP professionals play a risk profession and there is, for us and, we judge, in this House of the Republic, any parliamentary group that considers that this risk does not exist in the exercise of the profession. However, if there is a risk in the profession, if these men and women contribute every day to ensure that our society lives in security, the government has an obligation to compensate for the risk these professionals face on a daily basis. in this sense, it is important to find concrete solutions. And the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr President and Mr. Members, has already responded, with Bill No. 349 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) approving the status of the police condition, which in Article 16 thereof. the, provides for the creation of a risk allowance for all security forces and services, for all professionals. Therefore, this bill, which the CFP has generally approved, is in committee to be assessed and the CFP Parliamentary Group hopes that it will be followed up on the process of discussion in the specialty, so that it will be carried out. however, regardless of this legislative process, it should be noted that the current PSP Statute, specifically for the PSP, already involves the allocation of a risk subsidy, thus depending on the government's will to negotiate and implement this risk subsidy that compensates these professionals. in this sense, we follow the draft resolution submitted by the Greens Ecological Party, because indeed it has relevance, since we can, on a more expeditious way, carry out the consecration of this risk subsidy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I would like to say that the petition is entirely fair, it is entirely fair to the claim of these professionals, and the CFP Parliamentary Group is with these professionals in this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u142	You now have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An initial word to greet, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ( ASPP / PSP ) and the other petitioners who exercised their right of participation, through petition No. 285 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) in which they apply for a risk allowance to the Public Security Police professionals. Mr President, we see ourselves as a whole in the 2017 strategic guidelines, defined within the framework of internal security and the Government's Programme, which aim to dignify professionals and modernise security forces and services, from which we highlight the implementation of the Infrastructure Programming and Equipment Law of the Forces and Security Services, the guarantee of adequate use and implementation of programmes, Community funds and other international financing for the necessary modernisation of equipment and systems of security forces and services. It should be pointed out that, in the matter of the petition, the legal order has already incorporated a set of specific regulations, applicable to personnel with police functions in the PSP, which consider precisely the particularities and requirements of the police condition, which we all recognize, in particular through the provision of specific supplements. However, the service supplement in the security forces « is a monthly salary increase attributed to police personnel in service effectiveness on the basis of the special arrangements for the provision of service, duties and restrictions specific to the police function, at risk, penosity and permanent availability ». In turn, Article 131. paragraph 3 of the Statute of the PSP provides that the police shall benefit from remuneration supplements in accordance with the terms set out in their own diploma, which, in the absence of regulation, shall be implemented in the 2009 Statute. Since PSP professionals already benefit from a remuneration supplement covering « risk », it does not seem to justify their empowerment and remuneration separately. However, we can always evaluate and review the same. This is why meetings and negotiations are held with the Minister of Internal Administration and representatives of trade unions, always seeking fair, appropriate and sustainable solutions. Mr President, it should also be noted that promotions occurred during the freezing of careers between 2011 and 2017, which covered 2931 public security officers. As for the progress made by the defrosting of careers that the State Budget for 2018 has welcomed, in meeting the political and programmatic commitments of the Socialist Party in this area, there will already be about 3415 progresses in 2019 will be 3737 and, in 2020, will be 2751 effective to benefit from this process. A fair effort by the Socialist Government, with a strong budgetary impact, but which well represents the appreciation and dignity that these professionals, these men and women want to be given, and a sector so important that it constitutes a strategic priority for the democratic consolidation of Portugal as a safe state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u144	I call on Mr Nuno Magalhães, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, begin by complimenting the petitioners, the ASPP, in the person of its President, of the rest, present here, and say that the rather impressive number of signatures of this petition is justified, for two reasons, in our view: because of the importance, in itself, of the importance of the police condition, for the importance, in itself, of the missions they carry out, but also, let us say, by the antiquity of this question and of the discussion on whether or not these forces should benefit from this risk subsidy. And the question is often put in these terms: who disagrees says « good, but this risk is already inherent in the police function and, being inherent in the police function, there will be no place to that extra supplement» ; who is in favour says « good, but this is important, because, as servants of the State, the dignity that is necessary of the security forces and services lacks this bonus, that increase, that most valuable». in our view, and we have always said, the fundamental question is broader, the fundamental question has to do with the remuneration status, it has to do with the need to face clearly what is at stake and to realize that the remuneration status that exists and that, moreover, already foresees, as it has been said, the existence of this same risk allowance, generates relative injustices and, even some discretionary matters, in view of the unusual number of subsidies and supplements which, up to this or that task, this or that mission, this or that operation in particular, define the effective remuneration of this or that element of security forces and services and, in this case, the Public Security Police. Therefore, in our view, to speak of this issue without 'attacking' the fundamental question, which is the necessary revision of the remuneration status, which implies a dignity and even, in order not to be afraid of words, an increase in the remuneration of security forces and services, as provided for in the remuneration status, is not the essential issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u146	What we are discussing today with this petition is important — and it is so important that it is already in the law, so what we are asking is, above all, that the government abides by the law — it does not solve the fundamental problem. I would therefore like to say, as clearly as possible, that this Socialist Party Government, supported by the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, has been in office for two years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u147	They've been negotiating for two years! Even now, I have heard Mrs Susana Amador make a sort of "report and accounts" of what they have done and have not done for two years and refer to new meetings that are happening, as if they had taken possession about two months ago and not two years ago, which seems to be, with due respect, to try to "throw sand for the eyes" of the professionals present here. Therefore, the position of the CDS is clear: the CDS will enable this draft resolution, voting in favour, but it does not fail to say that, for us, the problem is deeper, must be resolved and weighed in a broader way, framed on a broader issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u148	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u149	... and realizing, globally, what is at stake here: finally, to have a remunerative status of the security forces, and of the PSP, which is clear, objective and does not commit any related injustices. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u150	The last intervention is for Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a special compliment to all the petitioners present here and to the Association that promoted this petition, the Trade Union of Police Professionals. This initiative aims to achieve the compensation paid for the risk assumed in the police profession. PSP professionals face various situations of extreme danger and are therefore often subject to stress and enforceable risks. It is known to all that there is a constant and permanent risk in the performance of these functions, which extends beyond the hours of service. This petition truly represents the will that exists of recognition for the mission that police professionals perform and, in particular, for the risks they face. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD made a decisive contribution to improving the effectiveness and prestige of the security forces in the time of the previous government, with the approval of the new PSP Statute. The new PSP Statute was a clear and unequivocal signal that the PSD intended to provide mechanisms and instruments to ensure the police adequate conditions for the performance of their functions. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Statute adopted in the time of the previous Government contains an express and innovative forecast which, autonomously, recognizes the compensation of the risk taken by these professionals. The PSD is therefore proud of the contribution it has made and defends the importance of mechanisms and instruments to ensure that the police are able to perform their duties properly. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, in the previous Government, took as a first-line priority the adoption of concrete policies and measures to make Portugal a safer country, to strengthen State authority and the effectiveness and prestige of security forces. For PSD, this is a domain in which investment has both short and medium and long-term advantages and exponential benefits. The effectiveness and prestige of the security forces are, of course, dependent on the forecasting and implementation of appropriate measures to fully meet current requirements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these women and men are professionals who, in the first line of intervention, enter any field of operations, regardless of the circumstances of the action. This is an essential issue for us at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the previous Government took the first step, the step that was fundamental; the next step needed to be taken and the best way to achieve an effective recognition of the risk underlying the police function. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD prefers a path that avoids the multiplicity of allocation of subsidies in the Public Administration, integrating the compensation due in the remuneration itself. For us, this is the only way to avoid any risks and situations of inequality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is now up to the current government to choose the way and to ensure that this fair claim of PSP professionals is effectively implemented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u152	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate on petition No 285 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1225 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Let us now start the last item on our agenda, which is that of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask the services which operate the electronic system for the verification of the quorum and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]] [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 208 meetings to which 3 are added by Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira, the PS, Mrs Margarida Mano, the PSD, and myself, making 211 Members, so we have a quorum for deliberation to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 464 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Antonio Jacinto Martins Canaverde, presented by the President of RA and the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. I use to present my feelings of sorrow to the family that is present in the galleries. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The sad news of death, at the age of 83, by Dr. Martins Canaverde envelops the city in which he lived, worked and for which he devoted himself to improving and modernizing. in a life dedicated to public service, he was a member of the first two legislatures and elected, in three legislative sessions, Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. A professional lawyer, he was a member of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. Dr. António Jacinto Martins Canaverde was also an author candidate for the CDS in Lisbon in the first local elections in 1976, having obtained a historical result. A man of conviction fought for an autonomous and financial power to work closely for the citizens. Defends, in the early years of our Democracy, that ‘ the state should lose in muscle what gains in nerves. ’ Figure recognized in sport, he was President of the Portuguese Football Federation and historic Benfica leader, having chaired the General Assembly in the presidency of Borges Coutinho. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, presents sincere condolences and our tribute to its family, friends and so many who accompanied it in all aspects of public and professional life where it stood out. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u154	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 465/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Rui Pena, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PS Members, who will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic testifies to the death of the former Mr Rui Pena. Born in Torres Novas, on December 25, 1939, Rui Pena graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon. It has long been one of the most respected voices in the area of administrative law. With intense political activity in its curriculum, it was defined as a Christian-democratic, Europeanist and Atlanticist. Rui Pena was a prominent activist of the CDS, being a parliamentary leader and Minister of Administrative Reform of the Second Constitutional Government. Later, in 1995, he was at the Foundation of the Humanism and Democracy Movement. His sense of public service led him again to take up ministerial functions in the XIV Constitutional Government, when, between 2001 and 2002, he took up the portfolio of the National Defence. Let us thus leave us an eminent lawyer and a citizen committed to the progress of your country. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest regret at the disappearance of Rui Pena's family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u156	I wanted to reinforce my feelings of regret to the family and friends of Rui Pena who are also present in the galleries. Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 615 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PSD Member Feliciano Barreiras Duarte.]] We will vote for Bill No. 616 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PSD Member Feliciano Barreiras Duarte.]] Mrs. Members were presented two applications, one by BE, and the other by the NAP, who were down to the Health Commission, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein.o 726 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — regulates the use of the plant, substances and preparations of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( BE) and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — for the admissibility of use of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( PAN). Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor to present the request of her party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have asked to explain the presentation of this request, because we understand that we live in a special situation in which all groups, in some way or another, have recognized the benefits of the therapeutic use of cannabis and derivatives, but, despite this, the reservations they presented and which were expressed here, being legitimate, could translate into a vote that seemed favorable to us, in the case of The Greens, but not favourable, in the case of the PCP, the PSD and the CDS. As a result, Parliament and the country would lose the opportunity to debate and vote on a law that respects a principle which has been expressed here in a broad majority, even if not consensual. The public debate that accompanied the preparation of this proposal was very important and the Left Block is convinced that a discussion period in the field of expertise will give us an opportunity to hear more specialists, to consolidate an opinion that is already dominant in the scientific community and that is dominant in society. We are convinced and hope to be able to overcome many of the reservations expressed here. We understand that the country needs good laws, that respect scientific evidence and that are inspired by the best international practices that already exist. It is with this expectation, it is with this sense of responsibility and it is with this sense of commitment, first and foremost, for the patients we propose to be discharged from the diploma, without voting, to their committee so that we can work in a good law that exceeds the reservations presented here, with the contribution of all parliamentary groups and experts, as many as we want to hear, to produce the best law possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u158	We shall then proceed to the vote of the applications, one, submitted by BE, and the other, submitted by the NAP, from a discharge to the Health Commission, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein.o 726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the use of the plant, substances and preparations of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( BE) and 727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — for the admissibility of use of cannabis for medicinal purposes ( PAN). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Once approved the two requirements, the projects of lein.o 726 and 727 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) down to 9. the Commission for 60 days. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1221/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse the evolution of the health impacts of cannabis use and its appropriate use for therapeutic purposes and take the measures necessary to prevent the consumption of this psychoactive substance ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens, the votes against the BE and the NAP and the PSD abstentions.]] We shall vote on the requests submitted by the Greens and the NAP, respectively, to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for a period of 45 days, of the drafts of lein.o 709 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February) ( The Greens) and 710 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code by assigning Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The projects d eli are down to 10. the Commission. I hope that these 45 days will not exceed Tuesday in question. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1220 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government expedite the assessment of devices and equipment for the control of diabetes mellitus ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1226 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sharing of systems for monitoring and treatment of diabetes ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1225 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Allocation of the risk allowance to PSP ( The Greens ) professionals. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1186/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the means of the National Library of Portugal to enable a policy of autonomous and regular bibliographic acquisitions, developing collections and enriching the national bibliographic heritage (BE). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1189/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Against the closure, maintenance of the company, safeguarding all jobs, and the fulfilment of the rights of workers of Textile Gramax International ( old Triumph ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have to vote for two opinions from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Constitutional Affairs Committee, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, refers to the suspension of the term of office of PS Hugo Pires and Palmira Maciel, related to Case No 963 / 13.6 TABRG. The opinion is to authorise the suspension of those mandates on 15 January and 6 February, and is limited to the period of the days indicated and ending at the end of those mandates and to any further hearings which the court determines in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the second report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, has to do with the replacement of the Members referred to in the report and previous opinion, the honourable Members. PS Hugo Pires and Palmira Maciel, respectively by Dinis Miguel da Silva Dantas da Costa and Lucinda Carlota Monteiro Ferreira de Oliveira Fonseca, to take place on 15 January and 6 February 2018. The opinion of the Sub-Commission is that the indicated Members are the candidates who must take up the term of office,
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You now have the floor, for a statement of vote on the voting of drafts of lein. 615 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 616 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte. The honourable Member has two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the two votes in which I abstained, specifically voting on two legislative initiatives, one from my parliamentary group, another from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, which, in practice, has to do with amendments to the so-called immigration law, my sense of vote is in line with my duty of conscience and is consistent with the political heritage of my party, not only from a governmental point of view, but also with a whole set of positions on that subject which have been taken over the past few years. I do not think it makes sense at this time that my party, in particular, has promoted this amendment, and in this sense I would like to make it clear that I believe that my conscience has forced me not to follow the PSD and also the CDS, which were in fact parties that had governmental responsibilities in the public immigration policy in Portugal in the past decade and half and that they have made significant progress in this policy, always refusing a public immigration policy based on the security pillar. It was in this sense, in conscience and in coherence, that I voted as I voted. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-11.u164	Your position shall be recorded, Mr President. It remains to inform me that the next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 17 January, having as the only item on the agenda Question No 15 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — About education ( CDS-PP ). So we're done today's session. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 24 minutes.]]
