ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Emília Santos to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 773/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines and regulates the conditions under which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions 1315 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out immediate work at the Alpendurada High School in the Canaveses Framework ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission and 1316 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the geostrategic importance of the Azores ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u3	We will now enter the agenda, the first of which is a current debate required by the PS under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on « more employment, better employment ». To open the debate, Mrs Idália Serrão, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is better today and the Portuguese feel it is better, because they have recovered income and quality of life. But we also say that Portugal is better today, because objectively we can prove it. Today we have seen the greatest economic growth since the beginning of the century, a growth based on consumer and business confidence, the largest of the last 20 years, investment growth, the largest of the last 19 years, export growth, the greatest of the last seven years. But we also consolidated public finances. Portugal today has the lowest public deficit in the democratic period and presents the greatest reduction in public debt in the last two decades. After all, there was even another way. A path with the brand of the Socialist Party, along with the Portuguese and Portuguese and shared, with responsibility, with the partners who form the parliamentary majority, a path that has allowed the resources available to be redistributed more fairly, making Portuguese society more fair, balanced and less unequal. After all, there was even another way for Portuguese families to feel day by day and make a point of reaffirming. The parliamentary right, which entered into a state of denial since the economic and social indicators began to be more favorable, has a lot of difficulty in looking at this new scenario, a reality that has not been able to play a role and whose effect gives them an inexplicable inability to face the objectivity of the data, even when this reality is brought to debate in Parliament by the Government, the Socialist Party or the parties of the parliamentary majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a right that does not like that Portuguese and Portuguese have knowledge of the progress made by themselves and their country. But it is a right that must hear them so that I can understand that there was even another way. A friendly path to employment, a path to growth and sustainability. Spreading the quarterly employment data of the fourth quarter of 2017, it is time to introduce this Chamber so that they can be discussed and evaluated. Between the end of the right-wing and last December, more than 280 000 net jobs were created, an average of 400 jobs per day, 17 per hour. In the last year alone, more than 170 000 jobs have been created, more than twice the last year of the governance of this parliamentary right. We are witnessing the greatest job creation in the last 19 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Employment in Portugal grows above employment in Europe. We have more employment in the various sectors of the economy, with an expression in industry, where more than 48 000 jobs have been generated and raised in all regions of the national territory. Today there are over 36 000 net jobs created for young people and less than 28 000 unemployed young people, the lowest number since the start of the 19-year series. A quarter of young unemployment has been reduced in the last two years. There is no family that does not look at this reality with effective hope. Young unemployment is still of concern to us, but it is far from the reality at the end of right-wing governance when the unemployment rate was above 30% and we had over 100,000 unemployed and many other emigrants. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have more jobs and better jobs. Data from the fourth quarter of 2017 show that there is less precarious work. In the last year, the economy has been able to generate much more work with permanent bond than precarious. The number of employees with no term has grown almost four times more than the number of employees with a term contact. You are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, plus 135,500 standing contracts, when compared to the 38,400 term contracts. The new fixed-term contracts represent 78 % of the employment created for workers on behalf of others in Portugal. It will never be too much to remember that in the last quarter of 2015, when this right ceased to send to the destinations of Portugal, the work with term grew above, far above the work without term and the new contracts with term, more precarious, represented at the time 62% of the job created. Exactly the reverse situation we have today in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u6	There are fewer than 43 000 underemployment workers. In the last year alone, we have seen a reduction in the number of workers in this situation three times higher than in the last year of the right-wing Government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more jobs and better jobs. Today we also see a significant increase in the active population. We have the lowest unemployment rate of the last 13 years: 7, 8 % is the unemployment rate recorded at the end of December 2017, below all projections formulated throughout the year. Portugal also has the greatest fall in unemployment in the euro area. Since the middle of last year and at the end of 11 years, the unemployment rate in Portugal has again fallen below the euro area average. Since the Socialist Party's government took possession, we have fewer than 222,000 unemployed, a very significant fall of 36 %. We have fewer than 44 000 discouraged, those and those Portuguese who had lost hope, but who have returned to the labour market. With regard to more structural unemployment and long-term unemployment, we have found that unemployment is at the lowest level in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u7	Madam Member, I would like to ask you to move on to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. There are fewer than 167 000 long-term unemployed. Today in Portugal we have a strong reduction in unemployment and a sustained increase in its employed population. The country has a greater capacity to create jobs, create wealth and bring stability to the labour market. These indicators are, as Mr Prime Minister said, proof that labour legislation does not constitute a barrier to employment growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u9	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. But we are aware that we cannot ignore the changes that present the new forms of work. The labour market must respond to the new generations and to the investment that families have made in the formation of the younger ones, as well as to the older generations of Portuguese and Portuguese who are in active age.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u11	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. The idea that in order to be more productive we will have to lower wages and destroy rights is not acceptable, nor is it so defensive. The commitment of the Socialist Party, expressed in the Government Programme and reiterated by this Parliamentary Group, has been and will continue to be, with the creation of more employment and better employment. That has been our way, that is our determination, that is our plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u13	Mrs Idália Serrão, for clarification Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. It is the table in full activity! Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Idália Serrão, this is a debate scheduled by the Socialist Party on "More employment, better employment". I believe that it is time for the Government and the Socialist Party to clarify their own contradictions on this subject. First contradiction: it is the current labour legislation, approved in the time of the PSD Government / CDS, which has allowed unemployment and job creation, as the honourable Member drew attention here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u16	In fact, Prime Minister António Costa said yesterday, as the honourable Member pointed out, that this legislation, and I quote, "is not an obstacle to employment growth, rather", i.e. confirming the importance of legislation in job creation. If so, why do the Government and the Socialist Party agree to change labour legislation, the tow of their left-wing partners, Bloc and PCP? In fact, last Friday they did so with regard to the transmission of establishment. Well, I've always heard that the winning team doesn't move.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u17	That's it! Very good idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u18	Why do you want to move? Because, of course, you have to pay the price of supporting these parties to your government solution. Second contradiction: will the PS respect social dialogue and dialogue between workers and employers? I recall that the revision of the 2009 Labour Code was preceded by a social agreement in 2008. In 2012 there was again an agreement in social consultation, the Commitment for Growth, which was signed and which allowed the revision of labour legislation. In both agreements, the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) was out of place by its own option. None of the amendments that this Government and this majority have made to date to the Labour Code have had any social agreement. In fact, what we have seen is exactly that difference in positioning with regard to this matter. It is that the Government, in the agreement it made in 2017 for the increase of the minimum wage, failed to meet its share of what it was competing with.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u19	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u20	In 2018, the agreement failed, and as far as we can see, this agreement failed for the minimum wage, because the government did not want to make a commitment not to change labour law without social consultation. Therefore, in view of this change in the position of the Socialist Party regarding the importance of social dialogue, social dialogue, what we want to know is whether, really, the Socialist Party, the hostage of the Bloc and the CFP, will continue to ignore social dialogue and, in this sense, throw out the history of this matter. These are the contradictions that it is important to clarify each time we talk about changing labour legislation, because of course it is against the understanding of the CDS in relation to the role social consultation has to play in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u21	In reply, Mrs Idália Serrão, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u22	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, very quickly, and I hope that the honourable Member will be clear and will not change the conversation again, I have only one answer: that is that 80 % of the new jobs created are endless contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u23	You're just making me right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u24	Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I must begin by saying a few words about Mrs Idália Serrão. The honourable Member has made some history, but by now she should have done a little more. You were a member of the government when the country came to bankruptcy and should have pointed out that the situation now is really easier because someone walked the way of the stones. I repeat, because someone walked the way of the stones. [[PSD applause.]] And, today, we don't have to admit that;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u26	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u27	... on the contrary, we do it with pleasure. In fact, there is more employment, employment has increased since 2013 ; there is less unemployment, which has decreased since 2013. What is important is to praise the workers, to praise the companies, to praise the governments before the present, with certainty. We don't have any problem with that. The former Government created the conditions for more employment and combating unemployment, and the current government follows the path of the former, as Mr Prime Minister said when he recognized, as has already been said, that current legislation is not an obstacle to employment growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u29	Here comes that compliment. But what does it cost to give this commendation to the previous government? What is it that arrests you to say things justly?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u31	The previous government has made an important job reform and this government is taking advantage of it, and it is taking advantage of it. There's no problem with this. But there are alerts. Attention: they do not destroy what it cost so much to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u33	Please be able to resist what are the package attacks of your radical left partners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u34	Please be aware of what is being announced, i.e. a slowdown in employment growth, caused by the slowdown in economic growth. And even more: be aware of the nearly 150 000 jobs available and are not currently occupied by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u36	As for better employment, of course, all politicians want better employment, all those responsible want better employment. What they left you on inheritance, I said, was a success for the Portuguese, for the companies, for the country. What's important now is that this best job goes on, and it's not happening, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the following title is remarkable: Gingongónça was not able to reduce working precariousness. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] Mrs Idália Serrão is not listening and I will repeat: Gingonganza was unable to reduce working precariousness. Well, you weren't able to, Mrs. Deputy! [[PSD applause.]] Well, that's the problem. Madam Member, you can sing hossanas, you can create an exhilarating odes to your government and yourself. Keep that self-satisfaction that I don't care about. What I'm interested in is whether the Portuguese are getting a better job. Is there less precarious? There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u37	There!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u38	Is there more and better vocational training? There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u39	There!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u40	Is there more and better employment for young people? There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u41	There!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u42	This is complicated. It is important to draw attention to this aspect. In short, we left an inheritance that created advantages for the country, created advantages for Portugal, and you have a challenge that you are clearly unable to meet. It is also disturbing what is happening, because the Government and the socialist majority are sailing on a growing standstill between the requirements of the Left Block to "disassemble" — I do not know what this is — the labour legislation and the revolutionary purposes advocated by the CFP. The PCP is tired of half a cinnamon policy, as its leader said. Half cinnamon policies, whatever this is.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u43	It's a little bit more than your shoe sole.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u44	And more: Mr. João Oliveira says that this will not go there step by step. We understand: you want a revolution, you want whole cinnamon, you want bordered on the street, you want the country agitated, if there is a change in labour law. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] What is important is whether you will resist this avalanche of the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u45	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u46	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years, we have heard a lot of bad news. We gave bad news to the European Commission, which did not believe it was possible to create jobs ; we gave bad news to the IMF, whose forecasts were to maintain a 12 % unemployment rate ; we gave bad news to the right, who longed for the coming of the devil, and he did not come, and who said that the rise in the minimum wage would create unemployment and turbulence in the economy, and the opposite happened. We do not forget, Mr Adam Silva, the 40% of young unemployment in the time of the PSD and CDS and the 500 000 people who emigrated because they did not have a decent life to do here. But, Minister, we look carefully at employment numbers and we see that they are both encouraging and disturbing. Animators, because there are more than 276 000 jobs, and that is good news after the collapse of the right. Concerned, because the quality of employment is not what we want, it is not yet that the country needs and does not correspond to the objectives of the majority. Why? Because there is still a high turnover rate — 66 % of the new contracts are non-permanent contracts — there is a distribution between precarious workers and effective workers who have not undergone any structural change — the future contracts are 22 % — and employment created must be solid, which is not so exposed to the environment, the tourism boom and qualified employment. This reality therefore forces us to act on two fronts. First, to prevent employers from thinking that they are above the law and that Portugal is the faroest. I give you the example of RTP. RTP is this week proposing to its employees to sign a contract in which it is expressed among the parties that do not establish any subordinate employment relationship, even with the signs of labor which imply the recognition of the contract. These contracts that RTP is proposing are an insult to Parliament, they are an insult to PREVPAP, they are an insult to the courts and they are an insult to the workers, and they must be removed and analysed. RTP cannot circumvent the obligations of regulating precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Second, we need to change the law. I would like to bring to this debate the report of the working group we have done and in which the Secretary of State, myself, Members of the Socialist Party and independent experts participated. It is that this report establishes a commitment between the Left Block and the Government which has not only to deal with the issue of turnover and its rate, but to put an end to the three loopholes that exist in the law of long-term contacts, ending with the possibility of contracting over time for permanent functions when it comes to young people, as the law provides today, when it comes to long-term unemployed or start-up businesses. There is this compromise and it must be fulfilled! It is because today we have a different economic policy than the PSD and the CDS, because there was an agreement between the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP to reverse austerity. We cannot have the same right labour law, nor an agreement between PS, PSD and CDS to keep that labour law. We have already said, and we have repeated: here is a majority to change the Labour Code. To do this, this majority needs to be operated on the left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u47	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the topic of the debate that the PS has been discussing for today was a current issue, it has gained more today after recent pressure from the European Commission on labour legislation in our country. It's true! The European Commission has again given life signs, this time on labour legislation. Thus, in an effort to pressure the Portuguese Government to reduce the labour protection of workers with unlimited contracts, the European Commission now wants Portuguese workers to be sacked even more easily. In good rigour, coming from where it comes from, these pressures are not surprising. Nothing new, then! In fact, these considerations only confirm what the Greens have long said: the European Union is transformed into an instrument of neoliberalism! For Europe, which is not the Europe of citizens, of Europeans, but, yes, Europe of big business and of big banks, people don't count anything, are reduced to mere pieces in the gear of quick profit, in the gear of the world of work: they work, pay taxes and give profits to employers. This is how Europe looks at those who work. And, therefore, Europe is nothing new! Even so, and for that reason, today we can say: I am glad that PSD and CDS are now outside the government, because if they continued, the government would have said 'yes, sir' and, most probably, I would have been trying, in obedience, to materialize such claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u49	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u50	But we know what cost us that blind obedience to the enlightened of Europe. We know, and we know! We are well aware that unemployment, precariousness and impoverishment are just a few examples of the fact that the Portuguese have had to endure following the constants 'yes, sir' that were given to Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u51	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u52	Mr Adam Silva, I have to tell you that whoever walked the streets of the stones was not the previous government, it was the Portuguese, and a path of the stones that took more than four years to cross. As far as Europe is concerned, it is important to stress the Government's position by categorically rejecting these pressures of the European Commission on labour legislation. We therefore accompany the Prime Minister when he stated in this regard: "This idea that we will be more productive and more competitive by crushing wages and destroying rights is a wrong idea and is not part of today's world". But the Prime Minister said more: the big plan for this year is to have a better job, after the country has already achieved more employment. And here too we accompany the government. More jobs, even because numbers leave no room for any doubts. When this government took possession on 26 November 2015, unemployment was in alarming 12, 2 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u53	I was coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u54	... today is 7.9%. Better employment, because, in fact, it is necessary not only to continue to combat job insecurity but also to guarantee work with rights. It is necessary to create the conditions at the legislative level for effective work in our country with rights. This need is reinforced if we take into account that over the years the changes to labour legislation in our country have invariably had a common denominator: the emphasis on imbalance in labour relations, with great losses to those who work. In fact, for several years, but in particular during the last government, the PSD / CDS government, we have seen an offensive against whom it works, especially the sharp degradation of the living conditions of the Portuguese workers in general. It is recalled that it was by the hand of the PSD and the CDS that, for example, redundancies were easier and at balance prices. Decisions, in fact, to remind a commercial announcement, now addressed to employers: they fire, because it is easy, it is cheap and it gives millions. These are the options of the previous government, but not only that, with all the frontality, without wheels, without « but not half but also», it is now important to look at and definitely revert in the name of social justice, but also as a way of valuing work and respecting those who work. These are important matters which tell people who work, from the outset, the rules for dismissal, in particular the values of compensation in the event of dismissal; the replacement of the concept of just cause, at least, in so far as it was before the amendment to the 2009 Labour Code; the need to prevent the expiry of collective labour conventions and the return to our legal order, from the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. These are some of the measures that the Greens consider absolutely imperative in order to get better employment in our country. This is the way that is necessary to restore some balance in labour relations, to value work and to dignify those who work. Workers can continue to count on The Greens in these battles! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u55	Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is, in fact, decisive in economic growth was the return of rights and income.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u58	That was decisive in economic growth! What prevents the transformation of economic growth into a fairer distribution of wealth is the labour law of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u59	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u60	In fact, what prevents economic growth from being transformed into better wages and duty-free employment is the labour law of the PSD and the CDS. Employment growth is positive, although young unemployment and long-term unemployment continue to have worrying levels, but beyond creating more jobs, the big challenge is the question of better employment. Beyond the quantity, it is important to discuss the quality of employment and, in order to discuss employment with rights, it is necessary to discuss the repeal of the serious standards of the Labour Code and firm measures to combat precariousness. For the CFP, the challenge is not only of quantity, it is also of quality, and the political choice for quality lies in changing labour law. Combating precariousness requires a permanent job to correspond to an effective bond, also requires compliance with law and supervision and, inevitably, changes to labour law. It is not possible to defend employment with rights by keeping the PSD and CDS Labour Code untouchable. It is that the 2012 Labour Code, promoted by the PSD and the CDS, had as its objective—and managed — to degrade and disbalance, in very deep situations, the working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u62	That is why, if the challenge is not only more employment but better employment, then we should leave here today the commitment to review labour legislation, taking into account the objectives of employment with rights. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, it is inconsequential: precariousness, long-term hiring, temporary work, professional internships, so-called research scholarships, false green receipts are not the exception, they are the rule in the labour market, and the problem is exactly that. Precautionaryness and the use of long-term contracts should be the exception and, today, what we have in our country is, in general, the use of long-term contracts and, above all, outsourcing and false temporary work, which cannot be. That is why we understand that today's challenge to the country and Parliament is to choose between employment with rights and the value of work or only to focus on the issues of economic growth without affecting the issues of labour law. For us, it is very clear that, in addition to the limitation of the term contract, it is crucial to revoke the expiry of the collective contract, it is crucial to value the wages, it is crucial to restore the conditions for payment of the additional work, it is crucial to debate matters relating to night work and work on holidays. That's fundamental. The CFP obviously values employment growth, but does not lose sight of the need for right employment. Economic growth is not synonymous with employment with rights — I repeat, economic growth is not synonymous with employment with rights! — we are not enough for economic growth. We understand that economic growth must be translated into the lives of workers and families and into employment with rights. This is the great challenge and these are the proposals of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u63	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the reality is based on interpretations based on newspaper headlines. The reality is well expressed in the official numbers of the National Institute of Statistics (INE ) on the quantity and quality of employment. After we learned about the final employment data in 2017, what we know is that this year has been confirming and accelerating the pace of job creation and decreasing unemployment at levels that were not known in Portugal for many and many years, in some cases since the beginning of the INE statistical series. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a job growth which is greater than the unemployment reduction, which means that we are finally bringing many who were inactive, much since they were inactive discouraged, many who had already given up in the labour market. This is a structural change, it is a fundamental change that has been brought about with the new policies and the new majority that exists in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that there is a quantitative increase in employment, but we would be wrong if we limited this change to quantitative growth. It is also true that in the last two years, in particular in 2017, has decreased part-time employment, part-time underemployment, self-employment, unpaid family work and other atypical forms of employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u65	It's all good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u66	If other numbers are needed, it is sufficient to say that, if it is true that, in the last year, 78 % of contracts on behalf of others were endless contracts, 85 % of jobs created in 2017 were responsible for the growth of unending contracts, and this is a new one in recent years in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a reality that no first page of any newspaper can deny, because it is the reality of official data. This is about job growth in quantity and quality, because, contrary to what some say, the Portuguese wage has substantially increased after a long period when the policy was to reduce wages, freeze the minimum wage, counter collective bargaining. [[PSD protests.]] Social security data are very obvious, official data. It's data that disturbs the opposition, but it's real data. [[Continued PSD protests.]] In 2017, for growth of about 3, 5 % of employment, the growth of the wage mass expressed in social security contributions was close to 7%. This difference only has one explanation: better wages, higher wages and not only for workers who take the minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Social security data show well that workers who earn a wage above the minimum wage had, from 2016 to 2017, an average growth of 3, 3 %. This means that work is growing in quantity, but also in quality. This is because the policies have changed, because the minimum wage has grown at a real rate of 11 % in these two years, because the collective contract, which for three years has not exceeded the 250 000 workers involved, has reached 900 000 workers only in 2017. This was a radical change of policy also supported by a change in the attitude of the government with regard to extension gates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The minimum wage to be increased, the impetus to collective bargaining and the change in active employment policies are the policies that explain these changes in employment in quantity and quality. Yes, in so few years the conditions of labour relations in Portugal have been changed positively and so significantly, and that is the responsibility of this government and this majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Obviously, we are not satisfied. We will continue the work and make changes to the labour legislation online with what is committed to the Government Programme. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u67	You want to finish, Minister, if you please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u68	I'll finish. When Mr Prime Minister said, and very well, that he was not available to move into labour law, he referred to a suggestion to simplify contracts without term. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u69	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u70	I would like to ask the opposition parties whether they follow the government in that position, which must be national, that the regulation of contracts should no longer be flexible, as some argue.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u71	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u72	That is what we understand and everything else we will do will be in line with the commitments we have made with the Portuguese in the Government Programme and the Socialist Party Election Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u73	at this moment, the Bureau does not register, so we expect parliamentary groups to take the initiative to register any Member or Member for this debate. [[Pause.]] Mr Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The data on net job creation, Minister, are not exactly the same data on gross job creation, but this is a discussion we will have on time. It is essential to say the following: job creation is important, but it is not enough. We continue to have 66 % of young people under 25 years of age with precarious contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u75	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u76	... which is not a sign that lets us be content with the situation of the country and the world of work. Mr Minister, the increase in the minimum wage has continued to fall far short of what would be necessary. We continue to have the minimum wage below 600 € and the increase in wages rose only 0, 6 % in average terms in recent years. The Minister announced that collective bargaining — a very important issue which has been mentioned here — has now covered more workers. However, Mr Minister, he continued to do less than the numbers that were planned. The government had foreseen that 1 million workers would be covered, but it is still in the 800 000 workers and far away from the 3 million existing in 2003, before the PSD and the CDS introduced into the Labour Code the expiry of collective bargaining. In addition to the issue of number, it is also important to discuss the issue of the contents of collective bargaining. The Minister knows that everything that means collective bargaining has as its currency of exchange bank of hours, concentrated times and adaptability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u77	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. We are not available to discuss expiry having as guillotine the currency of exchange of adaptability and working hours. It is possible to discuss the defence of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle from the end-of-expiry principle and not as an exchange currency.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u79	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u80	I should like to conclude by saying that defending employment with rights requires the revision of labour law and the expiry of collective bargaining. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is looking forward to new inscriptions before we close this debate, which is up to the Socialist Party, which has already indicated the speaker who is going to intervene. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u82	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: With regard to the topic we are talking about and the analysis of employment data, it is also important, in terms of the size of collective bargaining, to look more closely, as has already been mentioned, not only for statistical data, for quantity, but above all for quality. We know that in recent years they have been beaten in the Labour Code, in particular as regards collective bargaining, and we have reached a point where we are still very short of recovering the number of workers covered or the number of workers potentially covered by collective agreements. However, this data analysis, purely statistical, cannot remove us from a more important debate and analysis that has to do with the dynamics of the quality of collective conventions and the way they are negotiated. We have come to draw attention to this, especially in the last two years, such as the unions. In fact, with the standard of expiry and withdrawal of the most favourable treatment of the Labour Code, in addition to having existed a very large break in the number of collective contracts and workers covered, which is difficult to recover, these changes were further because they served to soften the workers and their representative structures that today negotiate with the employer with a sword over his head. This is no way to make collective conventions! We therefore continue to find — and propose, as we have already done before — that these two specific amendments, among others, are absolutely necessary. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we cannot look at this debate as the right eye, which is a negotiation only with the employer. To the right, workers have no word to say, as they have never had, in relation to such agreements as were mentioned here,... [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u83	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u84	... but we want to give the floor to the workers—and we are willing to do so—to say what they think about shiftwork, about night work, about the issue of fraudulent insolvencys that have already led to the dismissals of thousands of people in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u86	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u87	Here is the challenge: can we count on the Socialist Party and the Government to make the necessary changes to the Labour Code? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u88	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current debate proposed by the Socialist Party is basically a conversation, it is an internal conversation between the parties that support this majority and the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u90	You have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u91	It is anything that could be avoided because, in fact, what is at stake here, exclusively concerned, is the disagreement that exists in the reading of data and in what are the internal agreements of this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u92	For the CDS and the workers are not interested!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u93	If not, see: if we look at the objective employment growth data—and they come from 2013 and have had a growth rate that did not happen again between 2014 and 2015—if we look at these employment growth data... [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Mr. João Galamba, I have the numbers here. I'll send you the data, Mr. Deputies. They're INE data.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u94	You must have seen other data! Send those!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u95	As I was saying, if we looked at these numbers, we saw that the job was growing, and that was recognized by all the benches. That's whether it's positive, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It's positive. If we look at collective bargaining since at least 2012 we find that it has been growing at a remarkable rate, as Mr. Minister said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u96	How can you say something like that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u97	...not only in the last year, but already before.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u98	Give the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u99	Ask yourself: Is that positive or not? It's positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u100	He's making things up!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u101	Employment growth and unemployment are facts that are of interest to the Portuguese, but, Minister, does not laugh because the big issue here was brought by José Soeiro. Mr. José Soeiro said that. « It is in the agreement. It's in the deal. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u102	Who is Mr. José Soeiro? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u103	Mr. José Soeiro, I'm sorry. Mr José Soeiro said: "It is in agreement, Minister. It is in the agreement'.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u104	Mr President, it is a little longer than you have available, so I ask you to finish. The Bureau wasn't paying attention, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, between the question of change or not change, I would say how the Portuguese say and how that popular song of Minho also says: « pr’ the best is well, okay, / Pr’ the worst is enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Take us out of the film of this majority that you don't even understand what is relevant to the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u106	That's why you're not government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u107	...and does not respond to the true aspirations of the unemployed and the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u108	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party, for an intervention to close the current debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « More employment, better employment», the theme that the Socialist Party has brought today to debate fully expresses our view of society, our understanding of the economy and the firm principles of social justice in which we base our governance. We do not separate the strong growth of the economy from the fair redistribution of its product between workers and employers, collecting both the benefits of their effort. This is how we understand a more developed country and that is what most of the country expects of us. But for that, we need an attentive state and a political power that does not cease to correct distortions and injustices. The debate this afternoon has confirmed that, unfortunately, this is not the case for all political forces and that the right is insisting on a lazy vision which is unable to recognize the merit of our options and how they have led to the improvement of the quality of life of our people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right is paralyzed. It is paralyzed today, as it was during the governance, when it believed, affirmed and acted as a blind child in austerity, an austerity that defeated itself. They are paralyzed today, as they were when they claimed that the country had to impoverish to grow, that bet on low wages was the future of our position in the world and that the Portuguese could not aspire to more and better. They are paralyzed, when they subserviently reproduce the arguments of the international institutions, who want more deregulation and deprotection, which we reject at all. To the proposals of the European Commission to facilitate redundancies, we say 'no'! We say 'no' and we don't know what you say about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u111	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u112	They are paralyzed, when they defend social dialogue, but then they plunged him when we brought a social agreement here. They are paralyzed today, as when they refused to support in this Parliament all the measures we have proposed, including the increase in the minimum wage. Because we have memory and we remember that, just a year ago, the PSD found the increase in the minimum wage excessive.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u114	Mr Adam Silva, who recalled past legislation here, could go to this legislature and say what he thinks about this news just a year ago: PSD finds the increase in the minimum wage excessive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We would like to know if we continue to believe that workers live above their possibilities, when in reality your proposals are that they are far below the ambition of a more just country and a more developed economy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the right is paralyzed, but the country is not. Portugal advances, despite the positions of the PSD and the CDS, and advances precisely because since 2015 we are doing the opposite of what you defend. We defend more jobs, more jobs confirmed by all the data we have available. Thus: the unemployment rate last year was 8, 1 %, fell more than 20 % in one year and is at least nine years old; we have the largest job creation of the last 19 years and we are well above the European average; the population employed has been at the highest value since 2010 ; in one year the Portuguese economy has won 161,000 jobs, and in addition, the highest percentage and absolute increase in official series since 1998 ; since the beginning of the legislature, we have fewer 224 000 unemployed and almost 300 000 new employees; the number of unemployed fell almost 13 % in one year; long-term unemployment has fallen more than 30 %; and job creation has largely surpassed unemployment, which shows that a very significant number of Portuguese people have left the unemployed. More work! But for us, there is not necessarily enough work. We want to add quality to quantity. We want better jobs, and that, today, is also increasingly a reality. We have better jobs in wages, an increase of 15 % of the minimum wage since the beginning of the legislature and the average wage to increase 2 % per year. We have better jobs in terms of hiring. contrary to the nonsense we have heard here, there is obviously less precarious today than during your governance. In fact, when they say so, they confirm the disaster on the labour market, since it is clear that, when employment falls, statistical precariousness decreases, because it is the temporary workers and the first to be fired in the long run. The lowest value of long-term contracts was 2012, a year of afflicious unemployment and the destruction of thousands of jobs. That is why precariousness is not low for good reasons, it has been low because you have destroyed the labour market. with us, in 2017, contracts without term represented 85 % of the homologous change in the job created and are well above the 2016 values. The growth of the term contracts is 7, 4 % and of the non-term contracts is 5, 9 % — with 80 % of the net employment gain to represent permanent contracts. More work, better job. And for better employment we will continue to work in this Parliament, approving and implementing the measures relating to the labour code in our Government Programme. More employment under all indicators and in all segments, better employment in the quality of employment, in labour stability and in the remuneration of work. They are data that the statistics confirm and that the Portuguese recognise. A stable contract with a decent salary is not a blessing, it is not abusive security nor is it something of the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u115	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u116	...is the most important pillar of a decent society for which, over the past two years, we have made our firm contribution. Then we will proceed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u117	Mrs. Members, we have thus closed the current debate required by the PS on « More employment, better employment », under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure. We moved on to point two, with the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1243 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Final recruitment of health professionals placed under the influenza contingency plan activated between 1 November 2017 and 31 March 2018 ( BE) and 1246 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of a tender for the hiring of newly-specialist doctors up to 30 days after the conclusion of the medical institution ( BE), together with, in general, Bill No 766 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the obligation of competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific training ( PCP ) with use and draft resolution No 1300 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recruitment of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( CFP ). The Bureau takes advantage of wishing the members of the Government who are now leaving the Chamber for a good afternoon. To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More professionals are needed in the National Health Service, it is a fact. More doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, technical and operational assistants, senior technicians are needed... All of them are needed in the National Health Service. It's not the Left Block that says it or, rather, it's not just the Left Block that says it, it's the users, it's the reality, it's the day-to-day service. If there are still 700 000 users without a family doctor, then it is obvious that more specialists in general and family medicine are needed. If there are times of waiting absolutely unworthy for specialized consultations and surgeries, then it is obvious that more doctors are needed from these various hospital specialities. If the nurses do not comply with the ratios and with the secure allocations, then it is obvious that these professionals are needed, which is necessary to hire more professionals. If in health centres, in home care, in hospitals there are no nurses and diagnostic technicians, then it is obvious that more professionals should be hired. This is the real deficit in the country and it is the real deficit that we must respond to, if we want to ensure affordable and quality health care for all users. The proposals that the Left Block brings today the debate respond to this public investment deficit, respond to the needs of the National Health Service and respond to people's needs. We are bringing about a first legislative initiative to ensure that all professionals placed under the influenza contingency plan are permanently contracted, working permanently in health centres and hospitals where they have been placed. We know that these professionals are needed all year round, we know that they are needed all year round, and therefore they must be hired all year round as well. Does anyone believe that the 12 nurses who still protested this week manifested themselves in front of Gaia's hospital because they can be fired for the week if nothing is done are absolutely not necessary in that hospital? No one believes that. Everyone knows they're necessary. These and many more. We are also bringing about a second legislative initiative to ensure that tenders for the hiring of newly-specialized doctors are open until 30 days after completion of training. This ensures that doctors can enter the medical career, in the National Health Service, as soon as they finish their specialized training. This ensures immediate recruitment, its fixation in the public service and the strengthening of professionals in hospitals and health centres. It is incomprehensible that there have been 700 specialists waiting for competition since April last year, almost a year that has passed. It is incomprehensible that there have been hundreds more waiting for competition since October last year. It is incomprehensible that there are 77 specialists in general and family medicine who could have been hired at the end of last year, who could have ensured a family doctor to more than 150 000 users and were not because they did not open the contests for their hiring. Because of these delays in the competitions there are at least 200 doctors who have already left the National Health Service. This when hospitals say they urgently need, « as bread for mouth», to hire medical specialists. Lack of investment in health is the country's real deficit. The Government cannot be more concerned about going beyond its own goals to ‘be nice’ in Brussels and not intervene where it really matters: in public services. That is why, and in defense of the National Health Service, we bring these initiatives into discussion, so that there is no further delay in competitions, so that health professionals are not fired and that priority is health services and users and does not fail to show it in the Eurogroup. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u119	To present the legislative initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, continuing its commitment to defend and strengthen the National Health Service, to value work and workers, to combat precariousness, brings to the discussion two initiatives aimed at hiring health professionals, including doctors and nurses, integrating them with employment contracts with permanent public bond. For more than eight months, hundreds of doctors who have completed specialized medical training are waiting for the publication of competitive procedures for their placement. All of this happens at a time when thousands of Portuguese people do not have a family doctor and so many others have been waiting for several years, many of them for more than two years, for a specialized consultation in several hospitals of the National Health Service (SNS). Because we cannot accept that doctors are not in hospitals and health centres, where they should be, and integrated into the medical career, besides being receiving a salary that does not correspond to their function and specialty, and because this situation weakens the National Health Service — it is important here to remember that this waiting situation has led to the abandonment of the National Health Service by about 200 doctors, either through emigration or to enter large groups — and benefits the large economic groups that operate in health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u121	You guys have a way to cry!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u122	... the PCP presents a draft law establishing the obligation of competitive procedure for recruitment of internal physicians who have completed specific medical training and to whom the degree of specialist in their specialty has been attributed. This initiative is expected to take place within 30 days of the approval and affixing of the final classification list. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last week, the country was surprised by the decision of the hospital in Gaia to fire 11 nurses who had been hired in January under the influenza contingency plan. This dismissal occurs despite the deep shortage of nurses in that hospital center. This decision of the hospital is unacceptable but not unpublished. Also last year, several nurses hired under contingency plans were fired, although, in the overwhelming majority of hospitals, the number of nurses in the services is much lower than the needs felt, recommended and far from being fulfilled the ratio established by the World Health Organization. To prevent situations such as that of Gaia hospital from happening, but above all, because it is imperative that hospitals and the National Health Service with more nurses be strengthened and that the use of precariousness is combated and redundancies are blocked, the PCP proposes regularization of the situations of these nurses, integrating them with contracts of work with undetermined public bond. With these proposals, we are valuing work and workers, strengthening the provision of health care in the SNS and the rights of users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u123	Mrs. Members, the Bureau continues to not register entries for interventions on this point, so it asked the parliamentary groups to take this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u124	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u125	You have the floor, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to begin by welcoming the PCP and the Left Block for bringing today the debate on the theme of human resources in health, namely the hiring of doctors, a theme that the CDS brought here on 18 January, with a draft resolution that specifically aimed to recommend the urgent hiring of doctors who have been waiting for competition for months, which was approved. Therefore, we cannot fail to welcome them once again in the memory of a worrisome theme. For the CDS, in this area there are some assumptions that are fundamental, since doctors should have access to quality training in suitable services and in order to meet the growing needs of the National Health Service. Another premise is that, in fact, the indifference of doctors does not serve the needs of our patients and, therefore, we want to avoid deluding the Portuguese, hiring non-differentiated doctors, to say that, for example, there are more family doctors. It is that, for the CDS, as for many others, the undifferentiated doctors are not specialists in general and family medicine.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u127	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u128	That said, Mr. Members, it is true, as they have said, that there are serious problems with human resources in the National Health Service. The CDS has been saying this for more than a year and a half, and we are not pleased to recall what is actually a reality. For more than a year and a half, we say that human resources in health are not satisfied, that human resources in health are scarce and not being properly hired. As for late tenders, it has been for months that the Minister has been replying to us that it is for days. For months now, a response has been taken and Mr Health Minister pushes the belly, not hiring specialists, who are currently in the lowest number in the SNS — it will be worth remembering! — of what happened in the time of the troika. Therefore, this problem is not unusual for the CDS and, as we have heard from Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of BE, we have also said that effectively the deficit is not the only barometer of government. It's the CDS that said it a long time ago! [[BE's protests.]] It is at the expense of the investment deficit in public services that we have the deficit we have. And in fact, this government should not be proud to have made the lowest investment in public services and, in view of this, that the quality of health services is highly compromised. We need more resources, we need more human resources in health, and not only doctors, but, in this case, it is doctors that we speak because, indeed, we have the quality of care committed. And it's not just because of debts, it's not just because of what's going on, it's because, in fact, there's not enough human resources and there's an inconceivable waiting time. Accumulating waiting times for surgeries and delays in surgeries, as well as for additional diagnostic examinations. This is such a reality that before it was called « destruction and dismantling», but now, by the way, « put their heads in the sand» and they realize that it is not happening. What we ask you to do, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, they bring projects like these, but we ask you more: let them be consistent! It is that you bring the projects, but they continue to make the actions of a government which, as you have said, gives no priority to health, to patients, or to human resources in health. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if I am allowed to express myself, 'they have the knife and cheese in their hand'! You support the government that enables the measures you criticize! Who are the Portuguese people who understand this? Oh, my God! You criticize a government that supports and enables! It really can't be understood. We, in fact, need your consequence. We do not need agitation, we need your consequence, and in that they will certainly have the voice of the CDS, as they have for a long time, saying that health is not good in Portugal and that sick people need other conditions, such as human resources in health. We have open letters from professionals who, for months, wait for competition, we have demonstrations from people who know that they are indeed missing, there is a reality we have here denounced and what we need is to have consequent parliamentary benches to effectively demand that not only be the deficit to worry about this government but that there is an effective investment under the conditions of the National Health Service and the health system, so that health no longer be the poor parent of this government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u129	at this moment, once again, the Bureau does not register entries, so we await the initiative of the parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u130	Mr President, I call for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u131	You have the floor, Mr. João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service counts and will continue to count on the Socialist Party. After 2016, under the governance of the Socialist Party and the support of the parties that make up this majority, the SNS has been recovering from the attack of the liberal economic policies it has suffered! the policies that led to the loss of 7500 professionals! of the policies that led, in 2014, for example, to emigrate more nurses than those who formed in that year! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With PS, the National Health Service has been recovering! You have recovered 8500 professionals since 2014! He has recovered 4000 nurses and 1700 medical specialists! It was with the PS that, in just two years, the professionals recovered their incomes and saw many of their fair claims being met! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although we are watching the recovery of the SNS, with increased health care to the population, with more consultations, more surgeries, more daily hospital sessions, we see, repeatedly, health sector leaders serve as mere resonance boxes of the political rhetoric of the PSD and the CDS. This, in a permanent attack on the National Health Service, without any impartiality, without defense of its professionals, with a single objective: to launch alarmism and insecurity over Portuguese, using for this generalizations of punctual cases. But the Socialist Party will continue to make its way, the path of defense of the SNS and health promotion in Portugal. He will continue to make the way, still recently recognized by the Euro Health Consumer Index, which placed Portugal on 14. the place, in front of countries such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy and Ireland, with a very positive note on such important issues as access to oncological therapy, reduction of infant mortality, renal transplants and controlled diabetics, reduction of mortality before the age of 65, further improving indicators such as the average waiting times in emergency services and the territorial coverage of oral health. But we know that, despite the course already taken in just two years, there is much to be done. We know that the continuity of professional reinforcement in the SNS must be a reality! However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it can only be a reality after assessing the actual needs and carrying out contracting procedures that allow all interested parties to compete on an equal footing. With regard to initiatives today, here in discussion, and in particular the episode of Gaia, the underlying principles undermine the logic and justification of the contingency plan. The contract under an exceptional invitation to tender had in its genesis a limitation on time and a provisional and temporary nature, only and only for the time necessary to adjust the supply of services to the foreseeable increase in demand. at a time when a contracting policy is attended based on the evaluation of permanent needs, we well understand and understand the natural expectations created by professionals in the conversion of contracts made in contracts with a permanent character. That is very clear in the policy of regulating precarious work for the definitive contractual bond carried out by this Government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are mandatory procedures to be followed, which associate the permanent, duly substantiated needs resulting from rigorous human resources planning, with a procurement process that respects the applicable legal standards and the principles of transparency. With regard to the hiring of doctors, the Socialist Party believes that the implementation of procedures for the recruitment of specialists must occur with the cadence and regularity adjusted to the complexity of the allocation of human resources available to hospitals with permanent needs. Always in a logic of pursuing the public interest, respecting the applicable legal standards and the guarantees of candidates. In respect of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in terms of equal access to public service, the Socialist Party will always act with a vision of responsibility and transparency in promoting health care and in defending the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u133	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vales.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask the Parliamentary Groups of the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and even the PS to agree on this matter. The PCP and the Left Block arrive here and say the SNS needs professionals and needs to put them with a work link that is not precarious. Now, the PS has just said that this is nothing and that it has actually hired hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of doctors and other professionals. Therefore, I think it was important to understand management before coming here to discuss. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed four initiatives, two of the Bloc and two of the Communist Party, all aimed at hiring health professionals for the SNS. Two of these initiatives refer to the recommendation that the Government ultimately hire health professionals hired under the influenza contingency plan, also hiring health professionals who are lacking in the SNS. The proposal of the Left Block is softer, because it is limited to recommending. The CFP is harder because it wants to legislate a reality which the Government, Mr President, has left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u135	What about the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u136	As for the PSD - we have made it very clear here - in general, we agree with the concerns that the authors of these diplomas claim to have. So much so that, with regard to the hiring of professionals under the influenza contingency plan, we still asked the government yesterday, demanding the reversal of the scandalous dismissal of a group of nurses who were hired by the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho just a month ago. This dismissal is not only a shame, because it harms the patients of the National Health Service, as an insult to professionals fired less than a month after they have been hired, because they are playing with their lives and offending their dignity as citizens and professionals. Likewise, the hiring of newly-specialist doctors deserves our agreement, and this has always been a concern of the previous PSD governments, which have always opened all the contests possible, and it is good to remember that the same, often, were not completely completed. Having said that, what cannot be made clear is the fact that both the Bloc and the CFP denounce the existence of — and I quote — a significant shortage of professionals in the National Health Service and, at the same time, approving the State budgets and government policies leading to the same shortage of professionals! [[PS protests.]] The gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block want sun in the air and rain in the nabal. On the one hand, they are supportive of the government's current policy of de-investment in the National Health Service, but on the other hand, they continue to pretend, among professionals and populations, that they care and defend their interests, even making press conferences to deceive them, at the doors of hospitals and health centers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD does not act that way. If we defend the rights of professionals, we do so as a political imperative and not as a party convenience. It was, in fact, what we did in the previous Parliament, which is why we are very much at will in this discussion. To give some examples, the PSD-led governments hired for SNS between 2011 and 2015, nearly 7000 doctors and over 4500 nurses, Ms. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u137	Fralds made with towels and garbage bags were where things got with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u138	... which meant more than 10 000 new contracts of these health professionals to the public sector. In 2015 alone, more than 1400 doctors and 1800 nurses were admitted to the SNS. And this is the truth that you try to hide. Speaking globally between 2011 and 2015, the previous governments made a net increase — not only those who entered and left, as they are currently done, but there was a net increase — of 2800 doctors in the SNS, an effort that should be recognized by all, if we bear in mind the difficult circumstances that the country then faced. But there are more: in the previous legislation, the PSD government completed medical career competitions still started in 2002 and 2005, resulting in more than 2800 consultants, and competitions were opened for more than 270 heads of service, in a total of about 4500 vacancies. What we did was what it was possible to do in the context of the difficult circumstances in which the Socialist Party placed the country during the bankruptcy of 2011. Today, more than two years after the self-proclaimed and so celebrated end of austerity, there is no excuse for the government not to hire the missing health professionals in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u139	There's always an excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u140	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. Even less sorry there is to hire nurses and fire them less than a month after you've hired! This behavior robs the lack of shame and it is necessary to say that those who fire one month after hiring as those who are complicit in these practices that also degrade the National Health Service are so guilty. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u142	Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with the challenge made by Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto. The honourable Member said we had to have consequences. Now, what we are doing here, Mrs Deputies, is showing what the reality is. We did not hide the reality, contrary to what the CDS-PP did.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u144	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u145	The PCP demonstrates, as it has long done, the problems of the National Health Service and its professionals. And the challenge that the CDS here also does to the Portuguese: give more strength to the PCP, which will thus have more strength to solve the problems of professionals and users and strengthen the National Health Service. The Socialist Party talks about raising needs. Mr. João Marques, the problem has been identified for a long time: there are huge nurses in Gaia hospital, every day! And it's not only in Gaia's hospital, there are no nurses in all hospitals and health centers. So we cannot ignore the problem, it exists. We need to hire professionals, we need to value them. We cannot allow professionals who have been trained, who have valued themselves today to be emigration or going to private.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u146	And with the approved budget! There's money for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u147	It is necessary to hire nurses, it is necessary to hire doctors, it is necessary, in fact, to invest. The great investment in the National Health Service is the investment in its professionals and in the rights of these professionals. This is the commitment of the CFP. As for the PSD, we well understand the reels that you tried to give here... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u148	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. We understand the reels that the PSD here has tried to spread its responsibilities. Today the difficulties experienced by the professionals of the National Health Service are due much to the contribution and policies of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u150	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for the closing of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question is simple: whoever defends the National Health Service will vote in favour of these left block projects. They will do very well the PSD and the CDS-PP if they do so, because they will give decisive help to rebuild the National Health Service after what was the Government of the destruction of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u152	It's not with us you have to talk, it's with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u153	And it would be good for the Socialist Party to vote in favour of these draft resolutions as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u155	It is that the National Health Service needs more professionals, there is no need for excuses to fire the current professionals. Mr. João Marques said that the hiring of more professionals should take place with the necessary cadence and according to the needs of the services. Mr President, if so, the competitions should have been opened in May and November of last year, not now. Therefore, the project presented here becomes even more necessary. Defending the National Health Service is saying that up to 30 days after the completion of the trainings these contests will be opened and these professionals will be integrated into the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u156	What if nothing happens?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u157	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. Yes, it is to strengthen the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u159	We move on to the third point of our agenda today, with the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 737 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Increases the tax transparency of fuels through more detailed information to consumers ( CDS-PP ), 760 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the reporting duty of the marketer to the energy consumer ( PS ) and 765 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — makes the environmental impact of fuels more transparent by means of more detailed information to consumers ( NAP) together with draft resolution No 1290 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen information given to consumers in invoices relating to the marketing of fuels ( PSD ). To begin this debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A family who attests to their car with 90 € gasoline must be informed that these 90 € only 34 € is that they are to pay effectively the gasoline and that the remaining 56 € are for taxes — VAT (tax on value added), ISP (tax on oil and energy products) or other fees, which go directly to the state’s coffers. A company that offers a working van with 100 € gas oil is putting 55 € directly in the boxes of the Ministry of Finance! With the bill that the CDS presents today, what we want is to give all Portuguese people the opportunity to have access to information that is clear, transparent, understandable whenever they supply their cars, whenever they supply their bikes. More than knowing, in abstract, what the tax burden is, that is, the weight of taxes at the final price, which is, in Portuguese case, 55 % in gasoline or 62 % in gasoline, what we want is to give a very clear information to all taxpayers that every time they go to a gas pump and put 50 € of fuel 31 € go to the state, whenever they put 30 € of gasoline 19 € are directly to the state, whenever they put 20 € of gasoline 12 € are directly to the state, or, as in my case, when I supply with 12 € a motto 7, 44 € are for taxes that go directly to the State budget. This tax burden on fuels in Portugal is very high in relation to the European average and has been much worse in the last two years. In Portugal we are currently paying for both petrol and gas, a price above the European average, not even with the Portuguese average incomes of the European average. And that is not indifferent to the fact that this government, with parliamentary support from the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, decided in 2016 to increase the ISP over gasoline and gas oil by 6 cents. The fact is that with this increase, Portugal lost 9 positions in the ranking of European competitiveness, because it passed from a situation where it was below the European average to a situation where it is clearly above the European average, either in the price of petrol or in the price of gasoline. That is why it is very important for each of us today to have this effective possibility of knowing very clearly how much it is paying for fuel and how much it is up to the State budget. It is with informed consumers, with informed consumers that we all become more demanding as well. I am leaving a final note, Mr President, to congratulate us on the circumstances of other parliamentary groups that have brought, tow, other legislative initiatives on the subject. We understand that this is positive, because it clearly shows that this is today a real problem of Portuguese, and that is what the CDS also wants to do here: to bring concrete solutions to this concrete problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u161	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the conduct of this debate, as well as all the parties that are the authors of diplomas related to transparency and information to energy consumers. A more informed consumer is crucial to the clear and transparent functioning of markets. As an introductory note to the debate, I would like to recall that energy policy has gained centrality in public policies throughout this legislature. We saw a new paradigm. The tariff deficit fell from EUR 5000 million to EUR 3, EUR 6 billion. We have seen the first decline in the electricity tariff in the last 10 years and in 2018 we have also seen the consecutive declines in the price of regulated gas. The protection of the most vulnerable consumers has always been a zeal of the Socialist Party. Over the past two years, at the price level, it has been possible to act on the most fragile sectors of our economy, particularly the most disadvantaged sectors of our society through social tariff. It is more than 800 000 families to which the Socialist Party has made it possible to gain access. This is the brand of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents in this debate the most ambitious and clear of the projects under consideration. We aim to ensure that consumers of electricity, natural gas and fuel have full information. We stress that others also put forward proposals, but, contrary to us, they only present them when they are in opposition. The Consumer Protection Act is explicit in defining that the supplier of goods or the service provider must report clearly, objectively and appropriately on the total amount of goods or services, including the amount of taxes and taxes. These assumptions to combat asymmetry of information are crucial to the transparent functioning of the market and can induce pressure on some of the variables, leading to a possible price drop. In the event of approval, this will be the first law to systematize the necessary information from the marketers to the energy consumers that, after all, we are all. at the level of electricity, it should be noted that the legislation currently in force — also on the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group at the time — already requires detail regarding the first source of energy and carbon dioxide emissions, allowing a more informed bet on renewables and critical public policies of sustainability. However, there is a set of information which is not yet clear in current invoices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Question whether any Portuguese can perceive, through the analysis of the invoice, the various components of the tariff deficit, such as, for example, those always very much spoken CMEC (costs of maintaining the contractual balance). Another important information that must be included concerns the logistics operator of the trader change, a crucial tool in the free market and that the current government has created. I speak of the so-called « Power Savings », which allows an average comparison of 250 tariffs for all energy traders, to change and thus save. This should also be reflected in natural gas invoices. This type of invoice shall contain the discrimination of all costs incurred to the consumer. With regard to fuels, we are available to make the necessary changes and consensus, but with the certainty that our project allows us to go beyond mere exposure to the tax burden. Our project, in addition to also applies to LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas), presents other variables that are important for fuel prices. Among these variables I highlight the incorporation of biofuels that the current government kept in 2018 at 7, 5 %. This important plot for the achievement of environmental goals ends up having a very significant impact. Another highlight for our project is that the fines product to be applied to the sustainability of the sector. For all the reasons listed, I reiterate that a more informed consumer is crucial for the functioning of markets in a clear and transparent manner. The adoption of this law will allow this advance, which contributes to what we all want: a society where consumers have more information. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u163	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Consumer rights represent a vector of the greatest importance, presenting constitutional expression since 1982. There are several case-law decisions that emphasize the relevance of the right to information, stressing that it must be complete and loyal, made available by the supplier of goods or services, able to enable a conscious and responsible decision by the consumer. The Consumer Protection Act provides that consumer rights, among others, are the protection of health, the quality of goods and information for consumption. As it is clear that the right to information is one of the most important components of consumer rights, it is of particular importance when it comes to essential goods, such as fuels. One of the various problems identified in the field of fuel is the lack of information available to consumers. It should be noted that fossil energy consumption and its energy dependence represent one of the most polluting agents on the planet, one of the main contributors to environmental pollution and global warming. The growth of people's mobility capacity is one of the causes of the current dependence on oil derivatives and consequently the manifestation of serious environmental contamination problems, with more than 75% of urban displacement taking place on private vehicles with only one occupant. The combustion process in engines generates polluting and toxic emissions that have harmful effects on humans and the environment. In cities, the car represents the main source of pollution and one of the largest responsible for the emission of gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect. As is already the case with electricity invoices, which contain information on CO2 emissions corresponding to energy consumed and invoiced, we believe that this practice should be instituted in fuel invoices, making it mandatory for consumers to make information on the average CO2 emissions per litre of gasoline, petrol or GPL consumed, based on collective awareness of the harmful environmental implications of fossil combustion and the urgency of transiting to a decarbonized economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u165	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A strong civil society is an informed society, which makes its decisions consciously. We defend the four fundamental rights of consumers: security, information, choice and right to be heard. The right of consumers to information is enshrined in our Constitution and is accepted in the Consumer Protection Act. Despite this, there are numerous situations in which consumers, by ignorance, do not benefit from their rights. I recall here Prof. Mário Frota, a prestigious acquaintance of these matters, who said: « Laws exist, but people do not know them». In 2017, the PSD noted the World Consumer Rights Day with the presentation of a set of diplomas in Parliament, with the aim of defending consumers in various areas. We have fought for increased protection against advertising, for more training, information and supervision, among other things. It is on this line, in the defence of consumer rights, that the proposal is being discussed this time in the fuel sector. The right to information is not being fully respected. The invoices passed at the fuel supply stations do not provide the details necessary for the consumer to understand the final price. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The principle of transparency is one of the main pillars of any tax system and the simplicity of it is an essential condition for a developed and just country. Contributors have the right to know the taxes they pay, their amount and the reason for their swings. Even when the price of the oil barrel decreases, Portuguese pay more for fuel. According to international studies, we are from countries where fuel is most paid. The value we pay is very much due to taxes. On average, one Portuguese, to buy a litre of gasoline, spends almost 3 % of the daily wage. The government paints reality with the colors of fantasy, the ads happen, but in most cases they don't happen the same: beautiful ads. Austerity would be a thing of the past, they promised to turn the page, but the truth is they give with one hand while taking the other. Worse: they take out all, rich and poor alike. In February 2016, when the government increased the tax on petroleum products, it argued that its increase would only serve to compensate for the breakdowns in the tax revenue of fuels. They promised not to overload people anymore. But when we look at the UTAO report (Technical Budget Support Unit) we conclude that the increase in ISP has greatly exceeded the breakdown of VAT. Today, the Portuguese pay more! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite successive announcements from this government, people arrive at the end of the month without money. The government does not end austerity. On the contrary, you choose, yes, by raising indirect taxes, because you know that they are less noticed by people. This is what is called « fiscal anesthesia ». In order to achieve its objectives, it despises the fact that they are more unjust taxed in which both the rich and the poor pay. In the case of ISP, it is even more serious because it is usually the people who live in the poorest regions of the interior, with less public transport, who suffer the most from this tax. These indirect taxes have never been so high. The government rules in hiding, shows what is good, hides what is unpleasant. We do not deal with this way of acting. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want more transparency and information on invoices. We want consumers to know all the parcels that make up the final price to pay for fuel, including the fees and taxes that trigger their price. We therefore propose that the Government, in partnership with the Tax Authority ( AT ) and the National Fuel Market Entity ( ENMC), should study and create the mechanisms necessary for greater transparency and information regarding the composition of the global price to be paid for the fuel.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u167	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u168	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we propose that the Government create the mechanisms necessary for greater transparency and information on the composition of the global price to be paid by fuel, in particular by introducing the obligation to issue a compossible invoice when supplying vehicles by the consumer. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We welcome the conduct of this debate and hope that all Members will be present. Members, from left to right, are in agreement with this objective, in favour of the interests of Portuguese consumers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u169	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the Left Block, we are in favour of transparency, more information and better quality in the information provided to consumers and citizens in general. We are in favour of transparency, but we do not align ourselves with demagogy and populism around the issue of the alleged defense of families and what the state is earning at the expense of families. The CDS and PSD have been repeated in this fantasy of defending families. In particular, do you defend which families? They do not all defend, when it comes to the addition of IMI (municipal property tax), the families that have real estate over 600 000 €, but, in relation to fuel tax, they defend those who supply 90 € each time, as Mr Mota Soares mentioned here, which is not the case of most families. That's what we're here to defend! [[Protests by PSD Deputies Angel War and Christian Crespo.]] This family defense is very selective. When it came to the huge increase in taxes, there was neither the CDS nor the PSD to defend these families, nor were they here when it was the increase in VAT on essential goods. Transparency, yes, is necessary. The PS has now expressed this concern, but this is another act of hypocrisy, since, when it came to the oscillation of fuel prices due to the variation in the price of oil in international markets, we have not seen this concern, we have seen no initiative to introduce more transparency. But we saw the CDS chuming proposals that the Left Block presented to address this problem. When the price of oil rises on the market fuel follows it, when, on the international market, the price of oil drops to the fuels applies the 'viscosity factor' that prevents it from happening at the same speed. The defense of the families they invoke is more a mistification, it is more a fallacy. It is implicit that if there are more taxes, families are being harmed. Now, taxes are a necessary evil, they are not a fetish. Taxes will finance public services: health, education, public transport. And these public services will benefit families, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. These families are going to benefit. Another aspect of the proposals that are under consideration and which I would like to highlight is the information on the environmental cost of each litre of fuel. It is very good to give this information to consumers, because only with better informed citizens can there be a change in behaviour for the greater use of collective transport to the detriment of individual transport. We therefore welcome this initiative and certainly support it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u171	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also agrees with the importance of transparency and improved information to consumers and with the measures that contribute, in an appropriate and effective way, to the pursuit of this objective. There must be clear and accessible information and in these discussions we are conducting here, the proposals which are fair and which are no longer used to penalise micro and small entrepreneurs, particularly at the level of marketing, should be studied and discussed, taking into account the technical means necessary for invoicing. However, we must not fail to note that the measures are not merely decorative, are not inconsequential and do not become irrelevant. We still remember that famous measure of the information panels on fuel prices in the motorways, which at the time was pointed out as the great contribution to consumer information and even to competition, with huge benefits for lower prices, etc. And that's what you saw. The famous competition and consumer information have fallen into ridicule, which is completely irrelevant today. And there are some Members here who tell us what a difference it makes on the highway and see these information panels on the price of fuels!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u173	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u174	It is also necessary to say that one thing is the contribution to information to the consumer and another is to throw sand into the eyes of people exercising demagogy and political hypocrisy. The CDS and PSD, which are in the government with an absolute majority and at a time of historically high prices, imposed the increase in the tax burden on fuels, ISP and carbon rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u175	And now it's you!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u176	... already in this legislation have contributed to impermissibility of the proposal of the CFP to reduce fuel turnover due to the incorporation of biofuels that currently increase the final price to the consumer. And these are precisely the parties that are now scandalizing themselves with « the money that goes to the state », as they have just said, without saying a word about the scandalous profit margins of the oil and the price before taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u177	It's the weight of the cartel!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u178	Furthermore, it is scandalous that so far in this debate, nothing has been said by anyone about the price before taxes, which is systematically from the highest in Europe and always above the average, both in the euro area and in the European Union at 28. It is politically significant that the parties that speak of the price of fuels and accounts, at the time of supplying the motorcycles, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, forget this'small detail' : the hundreds and hundreds of millions of profits that GALP and the oil industry companies are threatening to account for these prices and this extraordinary market and sector control situation in an authentic oligopoly. And they say that, after all, it is the State's fault, ignoring what is happening every day in this sector in relation to the prices and practices of the large economic groups. The CFP is available for debate, in committee, which requires itself, in relation to the energy sector as a whole, with regard to clear and accessible information in an efficient and effective way, but we want to differentiate what is a serious contribution to the discussion — which, of course, we want to insert ourselves — of something completely different, which is to throw sand into our eyes and do another exercise of political hypocrisy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u179	To close this debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u180	Mr President, before I speak at the end of the debate, let us leave a special word to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. Mr Bruno Dias, we do not forget the price of gasoline before taxes and we do not forget these excessive profits that Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u181	They looked to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u182	... in the same way that we do not forget the 500 million euros more than the state is upsetting with the increase of the ISP beyond neutrality, which was voted here in Parliament, with the votes in favour of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Socialist Party. We do not forget these 500 million euros that we are paying too much. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u183	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u184	Mr Paulino Ascenção, let me also tell you that I know very well what families the CDS is defending : it is all families and all companies that, at the end of this year, will spend more than €900 on the gas pump compared to what they spent in 2015, also much because of this extraordinary increase in the ISP that Mr Deputy, with his vote, has allowed it to pass and that, in this sense, is withdrawing income from Portuguese families and withdrawing competitiveness from the Portuguese economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u185	Mr President, in conclusion, let me just say one more thing: we have listened very carefully to what all the benches have said here. I hope that tomorrow, in the vote, they will be consistent with what they have said and that they will actually allow the Portuguese to be informed of the tax sheet that today is going to a gas pump, because we know very well where a very significant part of our money goes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to enter the next point in our agenda, which consists of the general assessment of Bill No 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 237 / 2007 of 19 June which transposes Directive 2002 / 15 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2007 on the organisation of working time of persons engaged in mobile road transport activities ( CFP ) is to be transposed into the domestic legal order. To present this legislative initiative, Mr António Filipe has the floor, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the workers in the road sector who are attending this debate on behalf of the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than one hundred motorists who drive passenger buses have tried judicial actions, asking companies to be ordered to pay them certain values concerning non-compliance with the compensatory rest by carrying out additional work. in these cases, companies used the argument that some additional periods of work should not count for the right to compensatory rest, considering such periods as « time of availability » due to the entry into force of Decree-Law No 237 / 2007. However, this Decree-Law, which transposed into the internal legal order of a Directive of the European Union affecting the organisation of the working time of drivers affected by road transport activity, does not regulate the granting of compensatory rest for additional work provided, and therefore does not depart from the provisions of the Labour Code or the existing collective regulatory instruments. In the judicial proceedings brought before them, several judicial decisions rightly considered the non-applicability of this Decree-Law to road passenger transport. I give an example of a case in the Court of Justice of Santarém, in which, as set out in its decision — and I quote: 'In order to safeguard road safety and competition, definitions of working time, rest, rest and availability are established and, in order to safeguard the safety and health of workers, a maximum limit is established for the number of working hours per week. from here nothing is withdrawn in relation to compensatory breaks" — under "nothing is withdrawn in respect of compensatory breaks" — "and circumstances in which they must be granted, in the same way as no rules on holiday or failure of drivers" have been withdrawn. This decision goes on to say: 'The only possible purpose of setting such standards is to explain that during the time of availability the driver has not been conducting, nor to carry out other tasks whose wear in question concerns road safety, which will be relevant to the time when it is considered admissible that the driver will subsequently conduct. That is, nothing has to do with compensatory breaks. Thus, the definitions and rules in question in this Decree-Law are relevant for the purposes of road safety and competition and, only to this extent, they will prevail over the provisions corresponding to the Labour Code, but no longer for the other effects related to the provision of work, given the lack of correspondence between the standards of this diploma and those of the Labour Code, this diploma does not regulate the subject of compensatory breaks". However, this case-law is not unanimous, since judicial decisions depart from the application of the existing compensatory rest scheme for passenger transport drivers, supporting the applicability to these cases of the availability time regime to the detriment of compensatory rest. It should therefore be made clear by legislation that Decree-Law No 237/2007 does not depart from the application of the compensatory rest scheme provided for in the Labour Code or in a collective regulatory instrument for drivers of passenger collective transport undertakings. What the CFP proposes today is this clarification, in order to state without doubt that the compensatory rest arrangements for drivers of public passenger transport are as set out in the Labour Code, which is not relevant for this purpose to the so-called 'time of availability', established for road safety purposes. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u188	For an intervention, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here we are discussing a PCP bill that aims to give rise to the claims of a group of workers, but a project that also has to do with the quality of public transport and its ability to deliver better services to citizens. Mrs. Members, to tell how time to work the availability periods, to count how working time the free time, in which drivers are free to do what they understand — they can go shopping or walking, that is what the CFP wants to count as work — will mean the need to hire more workers, which will lead to more spending, more expensive tickets or more taxes. If the bill passes, what you choose, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? More expensive tickets, more taxes or both?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u190	What a shame! At least respect people! The more they talk, the more they bury themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u191	What do they say about the thousands of complaints from the transport system? Public Journal of 8 March 2017 : « The DECO Association platform for complaints about public transport has registered nearly 3000 complaints during the first year of existence ». [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Observer of 22 December 2017 : « The Mobility and Transport Authority received 8158 complaints in the first half of this year, most of which in the road and rail sectors ». With this government, with the left, public transport has been a pity and it is the Portuguese out there who are suffering it: complain, but the complaints fall into broken basket. Instead of caring about passengers, the PCP is concerned with corporate interests, serving the interests of its trade unionists, or having to be the Portuguese all to pay for it. It is not understood that the PCP wants to count availability as work only for drivers of public passenger transport of vehicles with more than nine seats. We asked the PCP : and the other drivers are less?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u193	They are not unionized or are not CGTP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u195	PSD is offending people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u196	You're not offending anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u197	Mrs. Members, in the PSD we always argue that workers of the same profession must have all the same rights. Proposing the PCP would give different royalties to the drivers of passenger transport, I had a duty to explain why, but it didn't even try. In the PSD we believe in equality, we practice equality, especially we are equally concerned about all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u199	It would be good if he did the same thing on the left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u200	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Álvaro Batista, I would never imagine that the amendment of a simple number of a decree had such a catastrophic consequence in the lives of businesses and consumers: rising prices or jeopardizing employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u202	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u203	Mr. Álvaro Batista, frankly! I'm sorry to tell you, but you don't know what you're talking about, because the Labour Code... [[PSD protests.]] ... in its Articles 228. is 229. the, establishes a regulation on compensatory rest and compensation of work under compensatory rest. Therefore, what the draft CFP law does is to clarify legislation that constitutes the transposition of a directive and a Community regulation on the organisation of working time. Indeed, in this transposition it is not clear that, in the event of additional work under compensatory rest arrangements, this situation should be offset by strikes or consecutive pay payments. Therefore, clarification is necessary. In addition, it has been found that when workers have brought legal action to be compensated for the additional work they did when they were entitled to compensatory rest, the employer has invoked that, in these cases, it is a work in terms of availability. However, Decree-Law No 237 / 2007 itself, to which the CFP adds a number to Article 1. the, says unequivocally in Article 5. o : « Availability time(...) is not considered as working time». Therefore, what is concluded here is that it is the companies themselves that do an abusive interpretation of this legislation, because it is not clearly established that the time of availability is not working time and that, when there is additional work in time of compensatory rest, that additional time should therefore be paid. We therefore follow the CFP in this detail of the legislation, of Decree-Law No 237/2007, and we also point out that, in fact, as Mr António Filipe said in his speech, this is no more than to resume what is established in the Labour Code on this matter, or, alternatively, what is established in the same sense in a collective instrument of labour regulation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u204	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2007 the Government supported by the Socialist Party carried out the transposition of the Community Directive on the organisation of work in mobile activities — we are talking about road transport drivers — and did so through Decree-Law No 237/2007. In order not to vary, the CFP once again proposes a change to labour legislation without it being discussed with the social partners in consultation. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u206	What do you have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u207	Now, we would like to stress that the directive allows social dialogue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u208	Ask the PSD if the dialog is allowed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u209	... moreover, it even provides that there is a minimum of social dialogue, so that the same directive can be improved through it. We already realize that the CFP does not like social dialogue. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u210	You don't like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u211	It is not enough to speak in collective bargaining here in plenary, when, in fact, what you see in your proposals is that you do not want to speak or negotiate around these same matters. However, we would like to stress that this proposal is aimed only at passenger public transport drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u212	And? Oh, my God! So if the regime is that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u213	It seems to us, of course, that this calls into question the principle of equality, of course, between public transport drivers and private transport drivers, between passenger drivers and freight drivers, and we do not fail to note that the CFP, a party that always likes to invoke equality, has forgotten this same matter. Worse still is the CFP to invoke the fact that there are several actions in court, there is no unanimous case-law, in particular, citing a specific case-law. Go away, what's the PCP doing? You want to do what by law, then? Standardizing case law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u214	And you want to do what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u215	Mr António Filipe knows very well that this is within the jurisdiction of the courts. If the cases are already in court, you plan to do what? Reversively legislate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u216	After all, what are we doing here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u217	This is because, if these cases are in court, they will obviously not be covered by this law, because it is to be in force for the future. So what Mr António Filipe is going to do is deceive drivers and workers, telling them that, with this bill, he is solving the problem that is currently in court.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u218	He's gone. He's gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u219	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u220	This was the result of your intervention, Mr President. By the way, there is a question to ask: What will the Socialist Party do?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u221	Don't worry about the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u222	Will you approve this amendment to your own legislation, a government of the Socialist Party, and in this sense will it give reason to the CFP? Oh, my God! And if you do not approve this amendment, what will the CFP do? Are you going to remove any consequences? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] [[Don't worry about it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u223	Well, if it does not remove any consequences, then this schedule does not go from a scene to deceive drivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u224	You used that phrase today!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u225	Furthermore, if the PS approves, we are not surprised either, it is paying the price for the support that the PCP gives it in its governance. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u226	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u227	Now, what the CFP cannot forget is that the PS, if it approves the amendment to the legislation, is paying that support, but, if it does not approve, it is the CFP that is paying for the fact that it is supporting the Socialist Party, because it is unable to adopt concrete measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u228	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u229	...the only thing you can do is deceive the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u230	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The framework we make of this legislative initiative of the CFP is not only a framework related to the labour rights of workers, which we recognize, from the point of view of the dispute, that exists at this time, or that has existed, according to the information of Mrs Rita Rato, in the Portuguese courts. We want to remember that this is a decree which establishes a special regime for drivers of road transport of passengers and goods, influenced by Community directives and regulations which since 1985 have sought to solve three fundamental problems. The first of the problems has to do with the issues of social dumping. The wages and working conditions of workers, particularly from the point of view of working time, were used for social dumping in cross-border transport. The second problem, and we all remember this, has to do with road accidents that happened due to disrespect for maximum working times, breaks and rests to which workers were entitled. The third problem has to do with road safety issues. Therefore, understanding the concerns of the CFP, but also taking into account these three objectives that concern us, we cannot share the wording proposed by the CFP that, simply and simply,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u232	Neither did they present any!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u233	... aims to exclude from the application of the special regime of this Decree-Law the carriage of passengers on vehicles with more than nine passengers and subject to tachograph.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u234	Neither did they present any!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u235	This is because, in fact, it does not concern the interests of workers, who would again be subject to the schemes which the Community and national regulations have sought to protect, created conditions for road safety not to be properly ensured and again created conditions for social dumping to be present in the transport sector. On the other hand, we would also like to draw attention to the following: Community legislation itself provides that the social partners may, through collective bargaining negotiations, guard situations that are more favourable to workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u236	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u237	And this is indeed a matter that is duly provided for in the collective labour contract of the sector, where, in fact, both the workers and the representatives of the employers, solutions have been devoted to what was thought to be the mediation of the most appropriate interests, on the one hand, what is the concern of the workers and, on the other hand, also to what are the working conditions and the conditions of operation of the undertakings in the transport sector. Therefore, because of this triple concern, we understand that the CFP solution is not the right solution to resolve judicial conflicts and therefore we believe that the social partners, in the context of collective bargaining, must find the best solutions to the interests that are at stake here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u238	Master's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u239	For one last speech on this point in our agenda, Mr António Filipe once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members Álvaro Batista and Antonio Carlos Monteiro, hate, repeat, hate, PSD and CDS to the workers is such that they don't even disguise themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u241	What hate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u242	Don't even wear it! [[It's true!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u243	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u244	You are not the owners of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u245	Mr President, this language is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u246	And any legislative initiative... [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting Mr António Filipe speak. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: When you talk about any worker initiative, you throw a lot of dyslates and do not discuss the matter with the seriousness that it would require. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Well, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga is also watching the film on the contrary. Why? Because the question that arises here is that there are transport companies that use a constant concept of the Community directive relating to road safety, which is the concept 'time of availability', to avoid applying the regime contained in the Labour Code providing for compensatory rest. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u249	What is happening is that there are companies which, on the pretext of « time of availability », have employees detained in the company in the morning at night, not respecting their schedules, not respecting the rest time and with long hours of availability, which is not paid but during which they have to be at the disposal of the company. We ask: Does this safeguard users? Oh, my God! Save road safety? Oh, my God! Saves the health of workers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u250	That's not what's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u251	Go see the law! [[That law is from the PS! He's 10 years old!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u252	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u253	I will finish, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am now returning to Mr Álvaro Batista, I find it extraordinary that, when what we say is as simple as 'implementation of the Labour Code', and you have approved it, you will say rays and corals of that solution. [[Protests by PSD Member Álvaro Batista.]] So this Labour Code is so bad? Oh, my God! Is it that bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u254	The law is the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u255	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u256	We think it is very bad, but, in this respect, applying the regime of this Directive can be much worse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u257	We are not against the workers! We represent the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u258	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No. 505 / XIII ( 2 ) ended. ( a ) and before we get to the last point of our agenda, I wanted to realize that, from time to time, in the heat of the discussion, we use a few more expressions within the limits of what is needed. [[Mr António Filipe has exceeded the limit!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u259	The debate must be alive and must certainly be very clear, but we must do our best to limit our expressions in some way. In any event, Mr António Filipe, following his speech, used a perfectly acceptable terminology and, therefore, there was no desire to interrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u260	Still said worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u261	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u262	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u263	Mr President, of course, if there was any excess of language on my part, I apologize. However, I would like to say that although I may have used a very forceful term and the Members. Members may have felt offended, if I were one of the targeted workers and listened to Mr Álvaro Batista's speech, I would also feel offended. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u264	Talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u265	Mr President, there was, of course, no place for any apology, it was just a repair that the Bureau made. We now move on to the final point of our agenda, together with the joint assessment of draft resolutions 912 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Environmental education as a valued component of public school ( The Greens ), 1295 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an impact assessment of the Eco-School Programme ( CDS-PP ) and 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion of environmental education in the curricula of basic and secondary education ( BE ). You have the floor to present the legislative initiative of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true and known that we are faced with global environmental problems, such as climate change, loss of biodiversity, the need to preserve water resources and the efficient use of water, the issue of waste reduction, finally, a number of issues that arise precisely from the need to reconcile human action with nature or at least to minimize the effects of human action and what is considered to be the evolution of societies with the preservation of nature. And the objective of environmental education is, precisely from the very beginning, to instill in our children and our young behaviors for a more responsible citizenship from the environmental point of view, but also, more participatory characteristics, of greater activity, namely demand and awareness of those that are the responsibilities of the public authorities. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that environmental education in our schools has been done more because of the dedication of teachers and students than, precisely, by structural, consequential and coherent guidelines by successive Ministries of Education. The Basic Law of the Education System, in 1986, came to recognize environmental education in our students' training goals, comprehensive at all levels of education, despite not doing it in a clear and objective way. In 1996, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Environment established a protocol that sought to frame, among other issues, environmental education in curricular guidelines and teacher training. Curriculums, essentially through a non-curricular disciplinary area called a school area, have been examined cross-sectionally on three fields of work: environment, equipment and community. In 1997 the national eco-tech network was launched. In 1998, it was held at 1. the National Exhibition of Environmental Education School Projects, shows that it was only maintained until 2001. The Eco-School Movement, sponsored by the Blue Flag Association of Europe ( ABAE ) was born, which, even in definition, by the imposition of the Ministries of Education, is still active in the days that run. In 2001 a curriculum review was conducted with three new non-disciplinary curricular areas. It was hoped that environmental education could come to express itself in these areas, thus following up on the projects developed in the long-term school area, which did not happen. From 2001 onwards, several revisions were made of the curriculum of basic and secondary education on the organization established in 2001, which essentially lasted until 2011. From then on, in summary, the argumentation and strategy outlined to achieve the objectives were no longer aimed at the destruction of the curriculum structure and, in the end, what they even aimed at was the reduction and devaluation of everything that was not considered essential and structural discipline. In 2011, what objectively happened, with the destruction of non-disciplinary curricular areas and the destruction of the curriculum structure, was effectively the destruction, by drag, of environmental education in Portuguese compulsory education. Whereas, with this reality and with these political options, one who loses is the country itself and its ability to develop consistent, expanded and diversified practices to promote the present and future sustainability, The Greens bring to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal that environmental education be an essential and permanent component of national education, and must be present, in a joint manner, at all levels and modalities of the educational and training process, with a formal and non-formal character, so that the creation of a non-curricular disciplinary area and maintained environmental education as a transdisciplinary field of work in the curricula of compulsory education, in Portugal. Finally, Mr. President, The Greens propose that a system of hourly credits be implemented for environmental projects and school clubs, enabling students to have effective and experienced contact with environmental issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u267	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution of the Green Party in its preamble — and also here Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in her speech — is part of the assumption that there has been a destruction of environmental education in compulsory Portuguese education. And, as the statement is serious, the CDS understood that it was worth checking its validity. So we did a review of the curriculum and we found that, in the 2nd. o is 3. the cycles, in the field of science, in the discipline of natural sciences, e.g. 5. the year, 20% of the descriptors of the goals of this discipline are on the environment and, no. 8. year, 49% of the descriptors of Natural Sciences are on the environment. In these years, numerous themes are being dealt with—and here I have the comprehensive survey which I will then be able to bring to them—in this matter. For lack of time, I will give only a few examples: « Describe how deforestation and fires change the Air Quality Index» ; « Describe the consequences of exposure to indoor and outdoor air pollutants(...) » ; « Associate human interventions with impacts on geological processes(...) ; « Discuss available options for ecosystem conservation and their contribution to respond to human needs » ; « Explain how each citizen can contribute to the effectiveness of ecosystem protection measures. As I say, these are pages and pages of various descriptors that specifically deal with the subjects that you have listed here. And this same exercise, if done with study and with detail, allows us to arrive at identical conclusions in 1. the cycle and secondary. On the other hand, even if this was not enough, this government, from the point of view of curriculum flexibility, introduced a new discipline of mandatory character, the discipline of Citizenship and Development, in which there is a topic specifically devoted to Environmental Education for Sustainability, whose aim « (...) is to promote values, change attitudes and behaviors towards the environment, in order to prepare young people for the exercise of conscious, dynamic and informed citizenship in the face of current environmental problems. » — and I read official documents. And although this discipline is within the scope of curriculum flexibility, as you will certainly know, next school year, it will already be expanded to all schools. If, however, the Greens Ecological Party considers that this subject deserves further deepening, the serious way of doing so is by proposing a structured curriculum reform and not by means of an avous annexation of disciplines that are hung on a Christmas tree in the curricular design of our teaching system. For the CDS, this is not the option. Recognizing that environmental education is relevant and recognizing, yes, that there is a way to go here, we propose to enhance the 20 years of experience of the Eco-Schools programme, which, in its evaluation, is defining, but still involved, in the past school year, more than 1500 schools, and we still propose to evaluate its impact and consider its expansion not only to the groups of schools of not above but also to higher education institutions that also need this kind of content. It is appropriate to say, Mrs Deputies, that rather than discarding what already exists, it will be more alerted and sustainable to recycle what has given evidence. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u269	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The end of the project area, decision of the previous government, PSD / CDS-PP, was in fact another contribution to the devaluation of the idea of public school as a space and time for active citizenship and the formation of that same active citizenship. And one of the areas that lost expression, that lost relief in public school was just environmental education. It is that the case of environmental education cannot be measured only through the curricula and subjects that are given from a scientific point of view, whether in the discipline of Biology, or in the discipline of Natural Sciences. Environmental education is, and must above all be an active training space, where students themselves have the opportunity to build projects around this issue, and that was precisely what was destroyed in the last government. The fact that civic training and the project area have disappeared from curriculum plans has caused the school to become poorer, and poorer in various aspects—has lost discussion vectors and vectors of civic training—and surely the area of environmental education is one of them. In fact, if we look at, for example, the number of schools that, in the discipline of the project area, addressed environmental education and stopped doing just because discipline no longer exists, this is more than proof that not only the students but also the educational communities themselves had and keep all the interest in discussing and deepening this topic. Therefore, regardless of the debate on curriculum flexibility, it is important to ensure that the theme of environmental education is at the heart of the public school discussion and that it is not just 10 %, 20 % or 30 % of this or that curriculum plan in this or that scientific area – and that is the debate that is being held here. CDS really likes numbers and percentages.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u271	That's scientific!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u272	The Block looks more at learning, at pedagogy, and that's why it's important to look. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] For example, it was the previous government, in a square view of public school, which engulfed, in particular, the areas of project and civic training. Therefore, we well understand the position of those who ended up with these disciplines, in relation to the draft resolutions under discussion here. Especially at a time when obscurantism, the main enemies of science, and putting climate change into question, gain strength in the debate of civil society and in the political debate that is taking place today, is so important or more important than ever to open a discussion to ensure that this environmental training, this environmental education returns to public school. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u273	It is precisely in this sense that the Left Block proposes three essential measures. The first is to create, as part of the curriculum review, an area of curriculum enrichment that allows the organization of students around intervention projects in the area of environmental education and sustainable development. The second is to consider the creation of a continuing teacher training programme for this same environmental education. The third is to create the conditions for schools to pursue environmentally sustainable practices in the areas of recycling, efficient use of natural energy resources, reduction of paper consumption and consumer consumption. As a matter of fact, the Left Block has not yet proposed a discipline, it does propose what is fair, which, under the discussion on curriculum review, environmental education, as happened in the previous government, is not once again forgotten and has a decisive role to play in the formation of young Portuguese people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u274	For an intervention, Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Awareness for sustainable development is undoubtedly a responsibility of all and of course it is in the educational process itself. Environmental education issues are of vital importance in the days that run and the need to work attitudes and behaviors is a reality. We know that what we do today will necessarily condition tomorrow. We also know from previous experiences that, in this area, through the work done in schools, we can change the behaviors of families, because they are the students themselves who help to provide the change in the behaviors of their family members. Although it is not yet sufficient, we cannot deny that Portugal has witnessed a significant change in behaviour in the last decade and increasing awareness of the importance of the environment and sustainability. To that end, our educational communities have played a decisive role in this change. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, currently, environmental education is present in the curriculum, it is even present in the curriculum. It is present because curriculum discipline programs integrate dimensions that value environmental education. The curriculum review itself, implemented in 2012, continued to contemplate the transversal dimension of Environmental Education for Sustainability. Environmental education is also present in many projects developed by schools, within their educational projects and within the framework of curricular and pedagogical autonomy, which was extensively deepened by the previous government. Therefore, despite well-intentioned efforts, we do not follow initiatives that are contrary and that condition the growing autonomy we defend. It was within the framework of this same autonomy that a greater involvement of schools with the enlarged community was possible, through numerous partnerships either with civil society institutions or even with NGOs, as is the example of the Blue Flag Association of Europe that has been developing the Eco-Scolas programme for many years and that the CDS proposal aims to assess and consider its expansion. It is also worth noting that over the past few years the partnership between environmental protection and education has resulted in the implementation of many initiatives and projects that schools have been introduced at all levels of education. Therefore, the PSD recognizes the importance of Environmental Education for Sustainability and considers this to be a subject that is covered by the national curriculum, being the schools, within the framework of their autonomy and their educational projects, trained to develop projects in this area, sufficient for this, to continue to develop the work they have done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u276	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party for bringing to the agenda the issue of environmental education and how it is currently being addressed in schools. The right to education and the right to a healthy environment are both constitutional rights which inevitably cross on a daily basis students in Portuguese schools. In fact, challenges and knowledge in the environmental area should be promoted and valued in schools. As has already been said, the curriculum reorganization promoted, in particular by the previous government, PSD / CDS, was truly a process of impoverishment of curricula. They are now saying that, after all, there has been an increase in the burden on environmental education. However, we have to distinguish here that is the strictly relevant content of what are the experiences in environmental education and the development of knowledge and practical contact with what is the defense of an environment, leading to practice the aspects of environmental education. And this part, in fact, has been withdrawn, in particular, because of what has already been pointed out here, which is the elimination of the project area and the impact that it has had on the day-to-day environmental education, having many schools that have stopped addressing these issues in an integrated and much more transversal way, which is also a process of impoverishment than environmental education in our schools. We agree with one aspect that the CDS here has brought us, which is the following: the opening of a broad process of discussion on a true curriculum reorganization is urgent and we defend it. Now, it is also true that the PSD and the CDS were never very interested in doing this broad, participatory, democratic discussion and involving the entire school community, teachers, non-teachers, students, finally everyone. There has never been such interest! The truth is that we are losing with the lack of this process and, once again, we have, as we have been saying a long time ago, the challenge for us to do just that, that we can open a wide-ranging process of discussion on curriculum reorganization. It is an urgent and necessary issue and we would certainly all be able to gain in weighting for each area and in what must be seen for the future. We cannot fail to say that it is interesting to have needed the PSD to talk about the CDS project in order to have any contact with the CDS initiative in this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u278	Perhaps it was not on its own initiative, but because it was remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u279	...because the CDS didn't. But, in any case, we cannot fail to point out a concern that we have about projects under discussion, particularly those of the Left Block, which, at one of the points—and it is a situation that concerns us—it seems to open the possibility of environmental education to be introduced into schools through curricular enrichment activities, whose current format the CFP does not exactly follow, and therefore this concern that we have this possibility of being able to occur is already noted here. The CFP once again welcomes the initiatives that come in the direction of valuing environmental education in schools. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u280	To close this debate, Mrs Lucia Araújo Silva has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the major challenges facing the citizen of the 21st century is the preservation of the environment as a component of global citizenship, committed to the future and transversal to age groups and social fabric. The role of environmental education in youth training is relevant in building a concrete response from society to this challenge. It is in this assumption that we stand in this debate. Knowing the numerous projects and activities developed by the schools in this area, in cooperation with the most diverse entities, we find that the country has been doing a great job here. It is never too much to point out that, too, young people have been real drivers in changing adult behaviors, but environmental problems are also present in curricular programs, which develop significant relationships between science, technology, society and the environment. It should be noted that sustainability issues are central to the entire curriculum and that the profile of students for the 21st century, which defines the competences of students after 12 years of schooling, has as one of their guiding principles contributing to sustainable development.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u283	The Socialist Party has been attentive, supporting the work of the Government in this area, where, it should be said, cooperation between the protections of education and the environment has been a privileged partnership for the promotion of environmental education. Recently, the collaboration of the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of the Environment in the National Environmental Education Strategy ( ENEA) with the 2020 horizon is highlighted. in this context, 29 projects have already been approved on the line Supporting a New Environmental Culture and is already defined the financial commitment for 2018. For the Socialist Party, environmental education is an essential component of education for citizenship, whose development is running at a good pace. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that we should not be too rigid in prioritising certain organizational forms to the detriment of others, because it is important to leave room for the autonomy of schools in the development of their educational projects, even in order to maintain balance and equity, in view of other relevant issues in the broad framework of education for citizenship. at the same time, the necessary evaluation of all this activity is planned in a comprehensive way in the National Environmental Education Strategy, published in July last year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this respect, although we do not follow some of the specific solutions presented, we believe that these are useful contributions to the consolidation of the work that the country has done and that the Government is strengthening in the promotion of environmental citizenship, also through environmental education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-02-08.u284	Ended assessment of draft resolutions 912 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 1295 and 1299 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) We are thus finishing our agenda today. Our next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and, in addition to the election of a member to the Internal Security Council and the election of the Board for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products, will have the following agenda: discussion of draft resolutions 673 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Portuguese sound, music and radio ( PSD ), 1302 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation and installation of a national sound archive ( BE ), 1306 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures leading to the creation of the national sound archive ( PS ), 1309 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and promote sound heritage through the creation of a national sound archive ( The Greens) and 1311 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the protection of sound documents that are part of Portuguese cultural heritage through the creation of a national sound archive ( CDS-PP ), together in general with Bill No 768 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the national sound archive ( PCP ) ; discussions of lein.os 744 / XIII projects ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by creating the successive indignity of those convicted of exposure or abandonment or omission of a food obligation ( CDS-PP ), 745 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, extending the dimension of the Vital Testament to the planning of old age, in addition to the disease situation ( CDS-PP ), 746 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating penalties and criminalizing a set of conducts that violate the rights of the elderly ( CDS-PP ), 749 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by criminalizing new practices against particularly vulnerable persons ( PAN), 750 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a special consumer protection scheme for the protection of elderly persons ( PAN), 755 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixty-ninth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply, and the adequacy of a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD ), and 756 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May regulating the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the eighth amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the Bodies of the Local Authorities, the seventh amendment to the Organic Law of the Referendum Regime, adopted by Act No. 15 -A / 98 of 3 April, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendum, approved by the Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, according to the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD ), in general together with draft resolutions No. 1272 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider and consider the need for and the possibility of creating an existing structure or providing an existing capacity, resources and competences that can give an integrated and cross-cutting response to people at risk or vulnerability, in particular with regard to the promotion and protection of the rights of older persons ( CDS-PP ), 1273 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic proposed revision of the Civil Code ( CDS-PP ), 1274 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit the plan of action and implementation of the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging 2017 - 2025 ( CDS-PP ), 1277 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the status of informal caregiver until the end of the first half of 2018 ( CDS-PP ), 1305 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen supervision of elderly households to ensure the dignity of users ( The Greens) and 1308 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the promotion of rights ageing ( CFP ) ; joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1098 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the nutritional light in the food packaged ( BE ), 1297 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the system of nutritional traffic lights and carcinogenic traffic lights in the mandatory nutritional declaration contained in the food packaged ( PAN), 1298 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national campaign for promoting and valuing the Mediterranean diet ( PCP ) and 1310 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On the labelling of food(The Greens) ; joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 558 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the municipal veterinary career by repealing Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ( CDS-PP ), 764 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Purpose to reformulate the principles of the career of municipal veterinarian ( NAP) and 767 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the career of a municipal veterinarian ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ) ( PCP ) ; discussion of the projects of lein.o 374 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support ( second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July ) ( PCP ) and 772 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July, which establishes the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support, as well as the requirement to review the law within one year ( CDS-PP ), in general, together with draft resolution No 1296 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update 5 % of the fees of forensic professionals for the services provided under the legal protection (PAN) ; finally, there will be statutory votes at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 45 minutes.]]
