ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] As you know, our agenda today consists of a single point, the appeal to Government No 20/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On justice, the PSD initiative. In the meantime, I ask the ladies. Officials of the Authority shall determine the opening of the galleries and Mr Duarte Pacheco shall give the House an account of the legislative initiatives which have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u2	Mr. President and Mr. As and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — regulates the transfer by air carriers of data from passenger identification records and the processing of such data by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 681, which falls to 1. the Commission, and projects of lein.o 913 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 914 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — New Basic Health Act ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 915 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows ( The Greens ), which fall to 12. the Commission, 916 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Removes penalties applied to workers who have already entered early retirement ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 917 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Retirement of the holiday scheme in public service is carried out by granting the right to 25 working days of holiday and age-based increases ( The Greens ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 918 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the eligibility for feeding of errant animals ( NAPs ) which are lower than 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 919 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the VAT Code with a view to exempting the school explanation and support services provided by the study centres ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. The draft resolutions of 1686 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of extraordinary support measures as a result of the strong weather in the parish of Pinhão, in the Union of Freguesias de Casal de Loivos, Vale de Mendiz and Vilarinho de Cotas, in the parish of Sanfins do Douro and in the parish of Vilar de Macada, in the municipality of Alijó ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1687 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently undertake retraining work at the Lumiar Secondary School in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works of the Basic School 2, 3 Professor Delfim Santos, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1689 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently undertake the work necessary to re-qualify the Territorial Post of Oliveira in the GNR District ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz on the national list of schools to be re-qualified with funds from Portugal 2020 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to improve the quality of life of the population of Fortes, in the district of Ferreira do Alentejo, eliminating pollution caused by the oil slurry extraction company ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1692 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Funding line for higher education institutions work in cooperation with the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people at risk ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 1693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on 20 November as National Day of Host Families ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1694 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the situations arising from the decolonisation process ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 1695 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the possibility of creating mechanisms to encourage the implementation of Astrotourism projects in the regions of the interior of Portugal ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 1696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the date of the travel of the President of the Republic to Moscow, Russian Federation ( RA President ), 1697 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urgent retraining of the Lumiar Secondary School in the Lisbon Council ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1698 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary actions for the construction of the central hospital in Algarve ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1699 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote effective reduction, recycling and reuse of packaging waste ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1700 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the management of the social equipment of the Union of the Freguesias de Cedofeita, Santo Ildefonso, Sé, Miragaia, São Nicolau and Vitória and ensure the public linkage of their workers ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1701 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends increased investment at Hospital São João ( Porto ) ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1702 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government unlock the construction of the new pediatric wing of Hospital São João ( Porto ) ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes the immediate reduction of the ISP and its adequacy vis-à-vis the increase in the price of oil ( PCP ), 1704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish an annual report on the situation of school meals in public schools ( CDS-PP ). I also report that the CFP Parliamentary Group requested the withdrawal of draft resolution No 411/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the hiring of nature vigilantes and the valorisation of careers, ending the existing definition of their future. In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on us to make better conditions in the Chamber so that we can hear the speakers. [[Pause.]] We shall initiate the agenda, with the request to the Government No 20/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On justice, the PSD initiative. in the opening phase of the appeal, Mr José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u4	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The PSD has allocated this request to the Government for taking justice reform as an effective priority for the country. We want and the country needs a real reform of justice, always ensuring its independence and autonomy as guarantors of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all and every citizen. Justice is an essential pillar of our democracy and a fundamental lever for our economy. Portugal needs swift and efficient justice that is at the service of citizens and businesses. Unfortunately, the current situation in this area of sovereignty is far from satisfying the desirable, with widespread dissatisfaction on the part of the judiciary and Portuguese in general. Justice is an area in which Portugal has been accumulating deficiencies by means of a State that has not been able to meet the needs of the country. Justice has many entropies: it is the judges — judicial and public prosecutors —, lawyers, criminal investigators, prison guards, judicial officers, registries officers and notaries, all in cases contest the action, in others the omission of the Minister of Justice. There is a widespread disappointment with a climate of cliché as it has not been seen for a long time. Every day, protests are announced, many of them marked by strikes and other forms of struggle of all known. What has been the Minister's response? Many announcements and measures in easier matters, particularly in the area of the nearest justice plan and Simplex in the area of justice, such as Nascer Ciudadão, Registto Criminal Online, permanent online certainty for companies and public, Electronic Judicial Certitude, envelop automatically in various courts, new justice portal, creation of working groups to study the problems. Each problem justifies a working group. In fact, the Minister is an expert in the creation of working groups, since she created them for everything, from the Statute of the Magistrates and the Statute of the Major, accompanied by the evaluation of the CPAS Regulation (Privacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants), through legal support, through procedural costs to administrative and fiscal reform and inventories. This week, on Monday, an additional working group was published in the Diário da República in the Diário da República, in order to raise and characterize the situations of admissions to the Clinic of Psychiatry and Mental Health of Santa Cruz do Bispo with a view to a possible review of the situation of admission and its placement in freedom. Since she took possession, the Minister has already constituted more than a dozen working groups to examine the most diverse subjects. The truth is, however, that the outcome of these working groups is slow to appear, dragging matters out without knowing when and how they will be resolved. The Minister of Justice has walked and promised the judicial magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the judicial officials, who would have their status in force in January this year and the truth is that we are already in the middle of the year and so far the only proposal that exists in this Assembly of the Republic for discussion, and that was presented only last April, is that of the Statute of the Judicial Magistrates. The Minister was obliged to comply with the budget rules for this year, which require the publication in the Journal of the Republic of the review of the organic law and the status of the career of the Conservatives, notaries and officials of the registries and notaries by the end of January and the truth is that this objective is far from being met. The evaluation of the CPAS Regulation was announced by the Minister in February 2016 and more than two years later we remain practically unchanged, since the Government has not yet approved any amendments to this Regulation. For more than two years the Minister has promised to revise the Labour Process Code, adapting it to the new Civil Process Code and so far nothing has been done in this area. The review of the Staff Regulations of the Judiciary Police has been dragging for too long. The promised platform of understanding on the question of the working hours of the Prison Guard's body is far from being achieved, which creates constraints on the normal functioning of prison establishments. The prison system continues to have serious problems, especially at the level of the state of infrastructure with very degraded areas and lack of conditions for prisoners, being dramatic the situation in some prison establishments, such as Lisbon, Leiria and Setúbal. Overcrowding remains a reality in most prisons. in the case of the prison system, it is known the complete lack of programming and, to a large extent, investment. The only way to solve the problems in this sector will be to schedule in due time, run in due time, as far as the country's budget availability is concerned, and not delay the investment for three years to run it hastily in the last year. Madam Minister, we denounce the problems, but we also welcome the results obtained in terms of suspension and procedural simplification with the reduction of the number of pending cases, with positive reflections on the functioning of civil, criminal, labour, administrative and fiscal courts, as well as on executive action. These results are the merit of the Minister, but also of the committed and self-sufficient work of the judicial officers and, essentially, they are also the result of the reform of the Code of Civil Procedure and the judicial reorganization, measures of the former Government which have introduced simplification measures that have also contributed to this result. It is also necessary to refer to the reforms carried out by the previous Government, in particular in the executive action, the approval of the new General Regime of the Cable Protection Process or the reform of the Insolvency and Corporate Recovery Code. We want this good performance in judicial statistics to continue to be stated and to be replicated in all areas of the justice system for what is essential to the real reform of justice. A first contribution to walk in this direction has already been made with the consensus reached—and with the high patronage of the President of the Republic who, at the opening of the 2016 judicial year, launched an appeal to this effect—between the Trade Union of Portuguese Judges, the Order of Lawyers, the Order of Applicants and Enforcement Agents, the Union of Judicial Officials and the Union of Magistrates of the Public Ministry, who last January presented the agreements for the justice system. These agreements, as a result of the work of almost one and a half years, concern four key areas — judicial organization, economic justice, access to law and economic crime — and propose a set of 89 concrete measures. The PSD greatly appreciates these agreements, but unfortunately they are not enough for the achievement of the desired, as necessary, reform of justice. in fact, neither the major political parties nor the government have followed these agreements, which only shows that there can be no reform in justice without the cooperation of all. As the President of the PSD has repeatedly stressed, the reform of justice, and I quote, « must be done by the parties and agents of justice as a whole. No government alone, no party alone, gets a serious justice reform. We must all unite desires and, in a patriotic sense, make an effort that contributes to this reform". The PSD bet is a cross-cutting reform of justice that seeks to respond to the issues that concern the Portuguese most and which involves not only the judicial operators, but also, above all, the political parties. Justice must be given as much as it lacks: more speed, more means, better management, better investment programming, better legislative quality, more specialization, better technical knowledge, more notice in its operation, better compliance with the secret of justice and greater effectiveness in combating corruption. I end with the words and work that the President of the PSD is doing every day on the ground at meetings with all judicial operators: "We are making a thorough diagnosis that aims to contribute to the development of safe ways for a comprehensive reform of justice, which must be done by the parties and agents of justice as a whole. Thus, the objective is to equalize the questions from the smallest detail to the constitutional review. No one's here against anyone. We are against a system that does not work, and in favour of the citizens. We will present a document, with concrete proposals, still at this Legislative Session to be debated and even changed by all those who want to do and who want to join this: parties, citizens and judicial agents. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We must therefore unite desires and, with a sense of state and patriotic sense, make an effort that contributes to this reform. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u5	Even during the opening of the appeal, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 8th Congress of Portuguese Advocates began today, in which I should have participated at the end of the morning, but the scheduling of this interpellation last week made my presence impossible. For this reason, I would ask you to refer here to the fact that I am addressing this conclave of lawyers and to wish the best success for Congress. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A recent publication on justice policies in the 43 years of Portuguese democracy identifies four distinct phases, the last being, beginning in 2003, the search for a resolution for the problem of morbidity, expectations and difficulties in the management and leadership of the courts. This diagnosis brought together an extended consensus, especially since some of its premises served as the basis for the political-parliamentary agreements for the reform of justice signed in 2006 between the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party. Agreements were made on the basis of which it was decided and initiated in 2008, on an experimental basis, the reorganization of the judicial territory, the establishment of management bodies in the districts and thus the changes in the executive process. Ten years have passed, however... Mr President, I will apologize, but there is a background noise in the Chamber that is disturbing me.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u7	You're absolutely right, Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just noted, conditions need to be created in the Chamber so that the Minister can be heard. I therefore ask all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, please cooperate on this objective. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ten years have passed, however, and we find ourselves today and here discussing the same basic issues, although with differences in the way of approach. We may want to say that nothing has changed, but it has changed, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Criticism in relation to the judicial system focuses on two essential dimensions: the timeliness and appearance of inequality. But if we leave the field of perception and turn to the facts, we must assume, without prejudice, that reality is actually changing. last May, the statistics of justice relating to the fourth and last quarter of 2017 were published, and they confirm a consistently downward trajectory of procedural expectations, which increased from 1 million and 300 thousand, in the fourth quarter of 2015, to 983 000, in the fourth quarter of 2017, resulting in a global reduction of more than 300 000 processes and a cumulative decrease of 25 percentage points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This downward sense is observed in the generality of the civil jurisdiction, in the criminal area, in the labor area, in the guardianship jurisdiction and, even to a lesser degree, also in the administrative and tax area. in this last area, the reduction of expectations recorded and the procedural resolution rates, which are positive, however, results that, we think, we are pleased to applaud, justify the meaning and persistence of our intervention, which does not translate into small measures but in the increase of effects over 50%, in multiple actions to improve organisation and technology and also in a package of legislative measures in which a working group has worked, yes, because we work on the basis of consensus and calling to us the agents of the sector. That's how we work. in the common jurisdiction, at the end of 2017, we recorded the lowest dependence of the last 10 years, placing us, for the first time, below 1 million. The procedural resolution rates, which measure the capacity of the system to face demand, remain above 120 % and in some jurisdictions are more than 170 %. in the area of economic justice, in which the executive segments, insolvencys and recovery of companies and work, the conjugation of measures of a legislative, technological and organizational nature, associated with a close follow-up, has allowed us to act on the focal points of congestion. in the executive action segment, the number of outstanding shares in 2017 decreased 12, 5 %, compared to 2016. Insolvency in the same period was reduced by 11 %. As regards criminal justice, the decline in expectations substantially follows the reduction in investigations. in labour justice, in which the average response was already acceptable, the amendments we are introducing into the Labour Procedure Code — which is ready, Mr President! — by eliminating the persisting disruptions, it will ensure even shorter times. Even in criminal matters, at the trial stage, procedural expectations increased from 61 000 in 2015 to 46 000 in the fourth quarter of 2017, which represents a reduction in the order of 23 %. This expectation is also the lowest of the last 10 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These are the data of the country in which we live. They are the official statistics of the Portuguese Republic, they are not perceptions! The criminal area is paradoxically the one in which the most timely results are achieved in the two most numerous segments, especially at the level of small and medium-sized crime, but it is also the one in which the greatest area of citizen disappointment is perceived in relation to the capacity of the State to similarly suppress the phenomena of serious crime, in particular the so-called 'economic-financial crime'. This is where the appearance of an unequal judiciary is centered. of justice which will not be able to respond effectively and promptly to corruption. We have witnessed numerous pronouncements on what to do. A serious debate around these subjects presupposes analysis based on objective data and an environment of serenity, free from pre-understanding, fears and passions. The country deserves it. The fight against corruption cannot only convene the judicial system, although it is essential both in the preventive and repressive plans. A look at the States in which there are lower rates of corruption reveals to us that the antidote against contamination by corruptive phenomena results from the combination of three components: transparency, accountability, trust. The judicial system, in the first place, fulfils the role of accountability that inspires confidence. Mr. Director of the CIAP ( Central Investigation and Criminal Action Department ) said recently that no more legislation would be required. I would like to agree that a careful reading of the available legislative instruments would dispense with major amendments, even if it could lead to improvements. The intervention of professionals, with specialized knowledge throughout the process chain, from investigation to judgment, in a systemic approach and the institutionalization of retrospective case analysis as a means of ascertaining the validity of the methods can facilitate the accountability of the agents in good time, thus implementing the third component of the antidote: confidence. The Government has been actively engaged in combating corruption in all its dimensions. And it did it by reorganizing services to improve quality, providing more and better information to citizens, determining the updating of plans to prevent the risk of corruption, ensuring that the General Inspection of the Justice Services includes, in its annual plans, actions directed to segments of activity more likely to permeability to corrupt phenomena. I leave a final note on the prison and reintegration system. Despite all the difficulties, the enormous effort that has been made in defining a strategy for the future and improving living conditions within the system is undeniable. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by quoting Max Webber: « The policy consists of a tenacious and persistent effort to drill hard tables with passion and sense of proportion at the same time». Let us all be at the height of such a noble task! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u9	Let us move on to the stage of the debate itself. Firstly, two Mrs are registered. Members to request clarification from Mr José Silvano. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u10	I shall reply globally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u11	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Silvano, I should like to confess, Mr José Silvano, that he had some expectation with regard to this agenda, that this request to the Government, which I think, will have been completely fated, since, having the PSD and its pre-announced leader a set of measures that would present, his intervention, allow me to be frank, has not passed a set of common places and, to that extent, frankly disappointing. But also, I must say, your appreciation of the performance of the system is, too, falsified, because, as Mr. Minister said, no inquiry about the justice policy could go along with the recognition that all the performance indicators of the system compare well with any previous homologous indicators. In fact, the Minister mentioned - and she had done so less than a week ago - that, for example, to the more than 1 million pendants inherited at the end of 2015 is now compared with an accumulated decrease of 25 %. And, Mr President, if you don't believe me, if you don't believe in the Minister — you are ill, but I admit! — you will have to believe in the words of the President of the Supreme Court, when, at the intervention of the Solemn Opening Session of the Judicial Year, he said, and I quote, « The six-monthly reports of all the districts that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy assessed in a structured and consistent manner show good even very good results in all performance indicators: at the rate of resolution, at the rate of recovery, at the rates of de-management and at the average time of scheduling and decision. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u14	Therefore, Mr President, while noting that these are clearly positive figures, I would like to know whether this positive development is recognized or whether it is going to be fought among those who will never understand — and I would like to quote again the President of the Supreme Court — "the reality against the field of perceptions, which never change, even when confronted with evidence. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But symptomatic too — and record that nothing has been said about this — the erratic nature of the PSD's positioning in this area is the undeniable fact that the positive performance of the system was accompanied by the reopening of the judicial courts that the PSD had closed. It is noted, Mr President, that this reopening of courts not only gave shape to the principle of territorial cohesion and solidarity—not merely empty words, because it not only strengthened the judgments of proximity and the principle of proximity with the conduct of criminal judgements, which will soon be joined by the realization of civil actions of up to €50,000 — but also did not compromise the performance of the system. But there is a question to which the PSD cannot escape, and therefore directly so, honourable Member: the PSD voted against Law No 52/2008 — in fact, the Member omitted his reference today — with the extraordinary argument that this Law did not contain, in the legal text, a rule prohibiting the closure of courts — I repeat, the PSD voted against, because the Law did not prohibit the closure of courts — and said that it was not enough with the only promise of then Minister Alberto Costa not to close courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u15	The argument wasn't bad. The practice is that it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u16	Now, the first thing the PSD did when it came to ruling was to close the courts that I had never promised to close! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I ask you, honourable Member, whether the PSD is sorry and guarantees that your policy was wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u17	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u18	Make a contrite act now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u19	And since I speak of repentance, you do not ignore that which is today one of the vice-presidents of the PSD — and I assume that the PSD does not have as vice-president irresponsible people! — stated that it was precisely on the justice policy of the PSD Government at the end of 2015 that it was sorry to vote in the PSD because of the justice policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u20	Unrepend!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u21	However, to the PSD, which came to the government here, the last question I leave to you is this: can we also count on the regret of the PSD with regard to its justice policies, or does the PSD think that what you have done for four years should continue to be done? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u22	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Silvano, in fact, the PSD Parliamentary Group is certainly the least credible of the parliamentary groups to come to talk about justice. I recall that the PSD government has truly put justice in the state of Citius, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u25	in fact, by putting justice in « state of Citius », the PSD government has created conditions for now not to be able, with authority, to come and talk to us about proposals for justice, which, in fact, did not present. But let's go. Mr José Silvano said: "Well, now everyone answers. There's a chilling wave like you've never seen before! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, you may not remember, but I would like to remind you that it was precisely during a government where the PSD was responsible for the justice folder that created the greatest climate of failure ever seen, with all relevant actors, with all the institutions of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u26	Leave the past there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u27	But, finally, you're going there, Mr. Deputies will say. Let's forget that! All right, but I also remind you that it was during a government in which the PSD had the past of justice that reforms were made that caused chaos in justice. I am not talking again about the state of Citius, but I am talking again about reforms such as the extraordinary inventory reform. Mr President, coming to talk about this is really extraordinary! Mr Silvano will say: "It is the past and we must focus on the present". Two notes on this: first, it is a past that counts, Mr, because it is a past that tells us everything about the credibility of the PSD to tell us, from now on, about justice. But it is more: it is an empty present, totally empty! I must say that I have listened very carefully to the speech of the honourable Member and I was waiting for a proposal, a proposal that would be. One! And what did you tell us? That the PSD wants a global reform of justice! Mr. Deputies, I would like to understand the outlines... I'm not talking about a global reform anymore, but a small reform! But nothing, strictly nothing! And then you tell us that they will present, until the end of the Legislative Session, a document with concrete proposals. In other words, they call on the Government to say that any day they are able to make proposals. And the honourable Member complains that the government has many working groups! Mr President, you have really come to us with a purely entertaining intervention, without any concrete proposal. I believe that it is all too important to mention that. What, then, are the PSD proposals? What proposals does the PSD have for access to justice? That's what we need to know. What's your proposal for legal costs? What proposal do you have for access to the right? What proposal do you have for judicial support? We don't know and fear the worst! What proposal does the PSD have to counter the government's report on programming changes in the prison system? Or about the building? Or contracts? Does the PSD have anything to say about that? Let's stay in expectation. Does the PSD have any proposals on employees, on the allocation of the judicial system of staff with the capacity to respond? We don't know! Do you have any proposals to counter the situation of precaution of the exercise of counsel when so many lawyers are in extraordinary distress today? Today, when the Congress of Lawyers starts, does the PSD have anything to say to lawyers about combating precariousness in the exercise of counsel? We do not know and the speech of the honourable Member has told us nothing! I would like to make any reference to this until the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u28	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u29	Finally, Mr President, with the question I wanted to ask Mr José Silvano: apart from the announcement of proposals, what concrete proposals does the PSD have to submit? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u30	To reply, Mr Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u31	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say to them that I didn't know they were so upset about hearing words like 'will','resolution' and 'agreements'. I didn't know they were so upset with these initial words. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u32	But I also did not know that they were so upset that they were going to look for statements that a PSD vice president had made two years ago and asked me if I was ashamed of it. No, I do not, Mr, because this is not comparable to the behaviour of your former Prime Minister, your Minister Manuel Pinho and your current Minister Siza Vieira. It's not comparable! I assure you it is not comparable! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Who raised the issue was Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão. [[Continuation of PS protests and PSD counterprotests.]] Mr. President, is there any discount on time?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u33	Mr President, I just did not ask for silence because in this case the difficulties came from my right side of the Chamber. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to work with your colleague so that he can continue? [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u34	In reply to Mr Neto Brandão's questions, contrary to what he said, I also recognized what the government has done well, particularly in the statistics it has just listed. What I added was something else: this is the result of Mr Minister, but it is not only, it is also the work of the judicial agents who are on the ground and the measures adopted by the previous Government, which has done a reform of justice in this area. That set led to these results. Secondly, I would like to ask you this direct question: does the previous judicial reorganization or does it not mean that, after a certain time, it could be altered? Who tells the honourable Member that the PSD would not make these amendments in due course? Who? [[PS protests.]] Was the judicial reorganization prior to or not these changes? So there is no guarantee that we could not make these changes. Finally, and also on this subject, I would like to say to Mr Pureza that it is clear that we do not bring concrete measures today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u35	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u36	We are willing to make concrete measures for justice that have everyone's acceptance. I ask you: with your interventions, do you think the Portuguese are satisfied with the current justice system? Answer this! Do you think the Portuguese are satisfied with the current justice system? Does the justice system need a reform or not? Is it or do I not need everyone's agreement so that the justice system will be implemented and become effective? I don't think anyone has any doubts about this. Just the availability of this principle for all, together, we have accepted this very well...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u37	Who did the debate in 2005 were you! You just have to complain about your deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u38	What is the concrete content? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u39	We want justice to solve the problems of Portuguese people, who have confidence in their agents and who do not divide them. As far as the challenge is concerned, I want to say to you this: they said that in a time of crisis, the challenge was very strong. It's true! But I ask: if at a time of crisis she was so expressive, how is it that at a time when, by the way, there is no crisis this challenge continues on the street, with strikes and with fights? How is that possible? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we refer to requests for clarification addressed to the Minister of Justice. The indication that the Bureau has is that there are 10 Mrs. Members who have signed up to request clarification, the Minister will answer by group: first, to three Members. Ladies and gentlemen, then also three Mrs. Members and, finally, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. With this structure, I will begin by giving the floor, to request clarifications, to Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u41	Mr President, Mr and Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the access to law and justice has a central role in contemporary democracies. There can be no democracy without respect for the guarantee of the rights of citizens and citizens if the legal and judicial system is not free and independent of social class, sex, race, ethnicity and religion of each. Mr. Minister, although our Constitution enshrines the right of all citizens to access justice, there are entropies in the system that prevent universal access to justice and courts in Portugal. We are talking, on the one hand, about the high cost of procedural costs and the difficulties of judicial support for citizens with economic needs. These are two of the obstacles known and accepted by all for a long time that have removed the justice of most people and guaranteed it only to the very rich and the needy. Mrs. Minister, access to law and justice constitute the cornerstone of our building of justice and must therefore be seen as a whole. And it is like a whole that the PSD is available, as has already been said, to reform justice, with the support of all parties, the government and the justice agents. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, right now, who has to rule, who has to submit their proposals, present their solutions and explain what the government is doing, not the PSD. For a long time the conditions have been met for a serious, rigorous and transparent assessment, either of the Rules of Procedure or of access to the law and the fees of the informal lawyers. More than a year ago, Mrs Minister, we have been waiting for the current government to reform the system of access to law and courts. The PSD has already presented an initiative and is waiting for it to be discussed, because the government is awaiting the submission of a legislative proposal. Mr Minister, the concrete questions we want to ask you are the following: when will the current government present the so-called reform of the system of access to law? When will the Government present concrete measures in the area of procedural costs? Why has the Minister not been able to comply with her word and to include in the 2018 State Budget the funds necessary to review access to law and procedural costs? Why, Mrs Minister, did the Government not, as it was announced in November 2017, present a legislative proposal on this subject, which, according to her words, would be in force in the first quarter of 2018? These are some of the questions that are being asked and which can be summarized, given the consensus of all parties and judicial operators, to a 'for when, Mr Minister? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Finally, I refer to some notes regarding the situation of the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box ( CPAS ). This situation is well known, many of the 35 000 lawyers and applicants are concerned about the sustainability of the Advocates' Safety Board, are against the increases in the monthly contributions at the beginning of this year and challenge the absence of counterparts and assistance in the event of illness and parenthood. Some news reports indicate an agreement between the Ministry of Justice and its orders, so, Madam Minister, we would like to ask you what the situation is at this time on this possible agreement and when the Government intends to implement the agreed measures. Mr Minister, it is time to remove obstacles to access to law and justice and to end the "all or nothing" that allows all access to some and makes justice inaccessible to others. It is time to reduce procedural costs and allow access to all beneficiaries who have been deprived. Mr. Minister, on behalf of democracy, it is imperative to ensure universal access to justice and courts in Portugal, for a fairer, faster and closer justice for citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u42	To make requests for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u43	Mr President, the Minister of Justice, in her speech, told us that in the area of justice policy time is changing and for this reason she presented a set of statistical indicators that reveal a certain photograph of the universe of justice. Mrs. Minister, I wanted to show you another photograph, which probably joins the one that brought us here. She said: « Time is changing for the better». Mrs. Minister, the judicial officials don't say that! Career promotions continue to be shielded and fair insertion—and those who say the word 'just' is the Ministry of Justice itself—the 10 % supplement in wages continues to be done. Despite all the will expressed by the Ministry of Justice, this matter continues to change. Time for court officials isn't changing. She said: « Time is changing». But the applicants for legal aid do not say that! Legal aid applicants tell us that they are faced with delays in responding to judicial support requests that go beyond eight months. Mr Minister, this situation shows how time is not changing in judicial support. She said: « Time is changing». But the Conservatives and the workers of the Registries and Notariado don't say that! Just because the budgetary standard requiring the completion of the professional status review process and the respective remuneration status remains to be complied with, despite the successive statements — which I can only believe to be honest! — by the Ministry of Justice. Despite all this, the truth is that the situation remains shielded and, therefore, for the Conservatives and other workers of the Registers and Notariado, the truth is that time is not changing. She said: « Time is changing». But the professionals of the careers of senior social reintegration technicians and higher education technicians do not say this, because the stimulus to their motivation in the exercise of such difficult professional dedication remains deeply degraded. Therefore, for these professionals time is not changing! Finally — and we could continue with many more examples — lawyers, especially those who exercise on an individual or the younger ones, do not recognise in this statement that time is changing. Or rather, if you are moving to worse, to the exact extent that there are more and more lawyers and lawyers faced with a situation of distress, both by the precarious exercise of your profession and by the prospect that they may not eventually have reformed or have a reform far below what their discounts were for the Counsel and Applicants' Safety Box. So, Madam Minister, my question is this: what guarantees can we bring to us that these five areas I have mentioned will be the subject of your privileged attention and what timetable can we count on in order to be able to follow this effort, which is the effort that is really worth it for the time actually to change for the entire judicial system? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u44	Also for requests for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u45	Mr President, Minister of Justice, two and a half years of governance of the Socialist Party, we can say that Portugal is better because the justice system is better and with a clear positive performance, as it was highlighted here in the Minister's speech. Portugal is better because it serves citizens better, and that is also why justice serves. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a perception, it is first a conviction based on data, statistics and even external assessments, such as the European Commission's 2018 European Court of Justice Assessment Panel. We must therefore welcome the Minister for the work she has done under the Government Programme, the critical areas she has identified at the criminal level and the priorities she has set for the judicial system, focusing on the approximation of the populations to the courts - reopening 20 courts - and at the same time returning to the populations, to more than 882,000 people, the presence of the State in the territory and the sovereign role of justice. And it also focused, and well, on reducing procedural expectations, throughout the whole line, in all jurisdictions, with less than 327 969 processes, a cumulative reduction of 25 percentage points. So if this is no longer justice, better justice and better serving the Portuguese, we don't know what it will be! What we know is that this is a line of continuity, recognised by industry agents and by national bodies and European bodies. We have today, Minister, a better justice because there has been more investment over the state budgets with this government, a budget of the Ministry of Justice which has been strengthened annually by an average of 4 %. There is a better justice because it is also simplified, closer and more efficient. In this period of two and a half years, we have developed an agenda that aimed at bringing justice closer to citizens, restoring confidence through improved management of the judicial system, promoting decongestion of the courts and through the nearest justice plan. Mr Minister, in this nearest justice plan, in which there were four pillars and 120 measures — the truth is that 66 are already completed — I ask you: of the strategy defined at the beginning of the legislature, what strategic pillars have been effectively valued and what results and impacts can we show today? As regards the concern of our authorities regarding the reduction of the prison population, I remember what has been done in a dual dimension: the legislative dimension, through the excellent reform of the short sentences, which, while reducing the prison lot, also affixed, and well, in the resocialization of our inmates, that is, there was a reduction of prisoners, but also a concern with the reintegration — and the dimension of an operational nature, since the system was able, through small works and benefits, to free 465 more places. So we have a better prison service today because it is less overcrowded. There was a 10 % reinforcement of the actual prison, with 400 new prison guards, we have 90 % individual adaptation prisoners and 77 % of the imprisoned population is in training or working. Mrs. Minister, since this path of strategic realization has to go through the sector through the modernization of the prison building, in the horizon of a decade, and we still have to stop and reverse the impoverishment we suffered between 2011 and 2015 in the human resources working in social reintegration, I ask: how and when does the Government intend to bring into effect all the proposals contained in the document Look at the Future to Guide the Present Action? I would also like to take advantage of the Minister to obtain a clear answer on the benefit process and the construction of the new prison establishment in Ponta Delgada, because it is very important to clarify this whole process.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u46	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u47	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that confidence in the judicial system is based on two fundamental vectors: the quality and efficiency of its performance and its social reputation. in the last years of the Socialist Party's governance, we have developed—and well! — these two vectors, because we believe that trust is an inalienable and differentiated capital of justice. Mrs. Members, confidence in justice is not done with a week dedicated to justice, with some meetings and erroneous statements by the environment, as the PSD did. Trust in justice and its agents cannot be intermittent, it must be done continuously, structured, in perspective, without ruptures or flares, as we are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u48	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u49	Mr. President, I will finish immediately. The fight for the right, of which Von Ihering spoke, is the struggle for access to the right, is the struggle for the dignity of the human person and, Madam Minister, we know that this is also your struggle, the fight of the entire Government and the fight of this Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u50	To reply, within a period of up to 6 minutes, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I don't really like to talk about the past. I believe that we should actually focus on the present and seek to build the future. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But if we have to share today's successes, perhaps we should also share the "inefects". That is, you can't just want to divide what works well and assign to others what works wrong. We're going to share everything, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions have been raised that are, indeed, structural in relation to the system of justice and the organization of the system. On the first question, of access to law, which has been identified from the outset as a fundamental issue, means that Portugal has no litigency rates below those of its congeners, which means that, from the point of view of the difficulty of access, we will not be in a very disturbing situation. But the Government is aware that there are two issues to be dealt with in this regard. One of them is gradualism in relation to the costs of justice, because it cannot be the « everything or nothing», it is necessary to find a gradual model ; the other is the need to find a concept of cross-cutting social support to the various areas of governance. This is what we are working on right now, and we are also working on the mechanics related to the technical aspects of the allocation of legal support, which, as you know, is based in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. The Ministry has been working with us in this area and we think that we will quickly find an answer to that. Another question that has been put to me has to do with the honourable Members. Lawyers and with CPAS. What I can say about the CPAS — and I will try to do it very telegraphically — is that there was a set of meetings involving Mr Bastonário of the Advocates' Order and Mr President of the CPAS. The proposals presented were discussed from a technical point of view by the two teams and there was a first group of proposals that was accepted. There is a second group of proposals, which is more residual and which has more to do with social security issues, which the CPAS has taken to reconsider and re-present and we will still have a meeting this month where these issues will be closed. I presented here one face of justice, but I can, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, present the other. The photograph of this other side is, in fact, worrying, but it would be more worrying if I could not say that we introduced 370 judges, 400 prison guards, 400 justice officers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u52	It was more worrisome, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u53	And since we speak in court officers, I must say that we promote 699, we have a procedure for the promotion of more than 200 in finance and they will be promoted in this movement plus 123. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, this part of the unlocking is being done and we are working together in the various areas. On the question of conservatives, you are absolutely right about timing, but the timing which Parliament has set was clearly unrealistic. So, just like I already said in 1. the Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u54	It's two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u55	No, it's not two years! We're here with a problem that's 39 years old, not two years old. You're 39 years old, sir! We are now solving a problem that is 39 years old, and we will solve it. We have been working with the unions — they will certainly have an indication of this — in view of having everything solved during this year, both careers and organisation, and also another relevant dimension, which is that of the conditions of exercise within the conservatories themselves. With regard to the nearest issue of justice and efficiency, we are actually working in closer justice, mainly in the pillar of efficiency. The results that we have do not fall from heaven, have to do with the reorganization of the work of the secretaries, have to do with the restructuring that has been done in the courts, have to do with the introduction of automations, have to do with the creation of specific teams that work in the executions and that do the cleaning—if it can be said — of executive processes in the various places. It is obvious that there is a whole past, but there is also a present, and an active work present committed. On the issue of the strategic plans we have presented, we are preparing the future: we have presented a plan for the prisoners, we have presented a plan for the courts and we have a plan for the registration area. How do we plan to implement these plans? I will present to Parliament a law on the programming of justice infrastructures and, within the framework of that law, identify the timings and means by which we will implement the plans we have in these three dimensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u56	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round of questions. To that end, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u57	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members, first of all, on behalf of the CDS, I welcome and greet the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party for this initiative and for the subject which I brought here today. This is a subject that we consider of the greatest importance and in which, moreover, we in the CDS are particularly at will. We can remember that over three months ago we presented a broad set of proposals—in particular, six bills and six draft resolutions—to seek to improve and resolve various issues of justice, which are still awaiting initiatives by both the Government and the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u59	So this is a subject in which we are particularly at ease and we have sought to be — and we have indeed been — ahead of us, so to speak. On the other hand, we began by proposing those matters that seemed to us to be more concrete and practical. In other words, we did not go to the big issues—such as, for example, constitutional or other issues—we went to those who could solve what we know are the fundamental issues of justice and that everyone is discussing as such, particularly the issue of speed. This is a matter of always, an old matter, not only for whom she stood for four years, as it seemed, a little while ago, in Mr. José Manuel Pureza's first intervention, but also for those who have discussed it for three years now — which I do not know if they will be long, but the Minister will say — almost a full term of office. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u60	The question of speed remains: we continue to have below 1 million, above 1 million, but, Madam Minister, a reference number of 1 million is always worrying, as is evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u61	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u62	An average duration of three years in terms of civil justice and more than that in terms of criminal justice is not, in our view, acceptable. In addition to the question of speed, we still have the question of the reliability of the scrutiny of justice and even its effectiveness. As I said, we in the CDS have responded to an appeal that seemed of the greatest importance and that came, in particular, from the highest judge of the nation, His Excellency the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u64	We have responded to what the judicial operators have done in the area of the Justice Pact and have not yet seen that our initiatives are being accompanied.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u65	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u66	I would like to remind you here of a number of these initiatives, Mrs Minister, by asking you for your opinion, if you would like to benefit from this possibility: judicial advisers, to help improve the effectiveness of judges; judges' scholarship, in order to recognize that something has improved in expectations, to attack more deeply and more seriously this issue; rapid intervention office for this purpose; better and more arbitration, i.e. the introduction of administrative arbitration and improvement, strengthening and the existence of more arbitration in tax courts. Do you agree or not? When can we continue this path? We also presented a project, not three months ago, but one year ago, regarding access to justice and costs. We proposed this matter a year ago and it is still to be answered. in another matter which the Minister spoke about, the question of criminal justice, I stress that the fight against corruption and economic crime must be dealt with very seriously, so I ask you whether it is available to promote real changes in this area. The Minister has come to understand that there is no need to move very much, but there are changes that have to be made. At the start, without a constitutional review, we will not go to the question of illicit enrichment, for example. There were two attempts in this regard, we participated in this effort, but the Constitutional Court did not allow it. however, it is necessary to know whether or not we are going to move into other matters, even in constitutional terms, if necessary, to resolve some questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u67	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. No one can ignore, for example, the question of the secret of justice, Mrs. Minister. The secret of justice, with this media justice, is offended daily, so there must be an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u70	If the answer is not at the constitutional level or the amendment of the Penal Code itself, as we stand for, Mrs Minister, at least ask for more means. The question of the media is fundamental, because we have the PJ (JDP) framework, appreciably half or less than half of what should be your occupation and research itself systematically talks about lack of means. So, are we going or not to move there, Mrs. Minister? Are we going to have the ability to make big changes or not? The Minister quoted Max Weber — well, as a lawyer she is — and I might dare to quote Malraux : «There is something greater than the power called justice». And that may be the measure of our priority. In terms of citations, Mrs. Minister, I still wanted to say...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u71	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u72	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I would also like to say the following: « The wish...» — and the Minister expressed her wish — «... measures the obstacles, but it is the will that overcomes them». With this I am no longer quoting Malraux or Max Weber, but Alexandre Herculano. The Minister is an expert on the system, and so on, she will be a system manager, but the challenge I leave to her is that, more than a system manager, she is someone who has the courage to change that system and reform because that is what is required in the field of justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u73	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u74	Mr President, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, the motto for this interpellation on the part of the intervening party could be anything like this: « Of the very serious problems we left in the justice system when we left the government, what have you already solved? » This could be the motto. The balance we make is that the justice system today is not worse than it was two and a half years ago — actually, it is not. The PSD/CDS government, with the measures it has taken in the field of justice and some vicissitudes, namely the collapse of Citius at a given time, has in fact left the justice system in a dire situation, which had as its « crown jewel », in the worst sense, the closure of courts which marked the past legislature. We can say that in this matter there have been changes that occurred, particularly at the beginning of the legislature, with the reopening of courts. The Minister did very well today to announce here, as she did in the Commission a few days ago, a better use of the current judgments of proximity to end some sensation that exists in the country that the courts have reopened, but little — finally, they are reopening from time to time. It is therefore good to end this and that there is indeed a greater use of the courts of proximity, extending their judicial powers. But, Madam Minister, it must be acknowledged that there are substantive issues that, indeed, have not yet had the prospect of resolution, and that cannot be forgotten. More than two and a half years have passed since the beginning of the legislature and there are subjects that continue to be discussed and the subject of working groups, but which, in fact, have not yet known prospects for resolution. One of these matters is the problem of access to law. What happened with access to the law, particularly in relation to judicial costs, was that the current Bartonary of the Order of Advocates, in taking possession, put this issue in a very emphatic way, which led to the fact that there were initiatives of virtually all parliamentary groups in this House related to this matter. Now, what has been advanced was only what was adopted in the State budget, on a proposal from the CFP, in order to disindicate the judicial costs of the IAS (indicating social support) so that its increase did not imply the increase in judicial costs. There was a freeze on the value of judicial costs, which is what we proposed, and of course we welcome this advance. But it must be acknowledged that, in the area of judicial costs, there is much more to be done, because this is a serious strangulation of access to broad population layers to law and to courts. There is a working group to deal with this issue, which lacks a substantive intervention, whose conclusions have not yet been made public. There are people who do not have economic possibilities to access the courts, so they cannot benefit from legal assistance, nor do they have financial means to pay for a judicial dispute, which leaves many people out of access to effective judicial protection. Mrs. Minister, there are very serious staff problems that are to be resolved. In fact, there have been some increases in admissions to judicial officials and prison guards, but there is a need to ensure a regular entry of professionals into the system that is completing the natural occupational exits for reasons of age. in the judicial police, not only less than half of the tables are filled as the effectives are an average age of 48 years, which means that there are either regular entries in these institutions or, then, the situation will not get any worse. The Judiciary Police has anything like 1150 effectives for a picture that should be 2500 and the same happens in the courts, in the prison system, in the Registries and Notary...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u75	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, there are huge deficits in these institutions that have to be solved and that, indeed, have not yet been solved. Of course, there are also the statutory issues, which we hope will have developments in the short term. The last thing I would say, Mrs. Minister, is that it's not really enough to have reports and programmes, because we also remember that a few years ago, Minister Celeste Cardona gave a commission coordinated by Prof. Freitas do Amaral a beautiful report on the prison system and what happened was that when that government ceased its duties, the report went to the file. Therefore, it is important that these reports are effectively practical, under the penalty of 10 years from now we are still discussing new reports on reports that have been abandoned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u77	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by welcoming the PSD on the subject of its appeal, because it is never too much to talk about justice. As justice is an absolutely central pillar of our democracy and a fundamental element of our democratic rule of law, talking about justice will always be appropriate. in this context, in view of the situation of justice in Portugal, which continues to be especially marked by its slowness, where procedural expectations are flooded, it is of course required that governments assume the responsibility to work towards building a system of justice that is faster, more efficient, and, above all, more accessible to citizens. We therefore speak of a responsibility that should be addressed at all times and by all governments. And I say'should' because, in fact, it has not been so and it has not been so since we spoke about the previous government, because, as we all know, the PSD/CDS government has made justice more expensive, has made it difficult for the Portuguese to have access to justice and has further removed the citizens from justice. In this regard, it should be recalled that the PSD/CDS Government began by increasing judicial costs so that citizens would not resort to courts, thus denying them the right to access to justice, which, in fact, is an obligation of the State to guarantee, and then closed dozens of courts, thereby further depriving citizens of justice. So today, at least, we will have to surprise the PSD to talk about justice closer when he did what he did in this matter. But perhaps also because of this, the Portuguese put the PSD and CDS away from the government because they probably also realized that the PSD only cares about people when they are away from the government, and the CDS too.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u79	Not us!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u80	Was the CDS also against the closure of the courts? Is that what you mean to me? Oh, my God! No, it was PSD and CDS. Now let's make it clear: whoever closed the courts was the PSD and it was the CDS! Mr. Minister, with this new government solution, the Portuguese have also seen hope reborn at the level of justice, but the answers are beginning to take a long time, until, Madam.Minister, the administration of justice without judicial officials is not possible, because workers and workers with rights are needed. in this regard, with regard to judicial officials, we talk above all about the need to dignify their socio-professional status. These workers informed the Greens of information that the Government is not fulfilling important commitments to these professionals, in particular with regard to the regularization of the procedural recovery supplement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u81	Isn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u82	in this sense, Mrs. Minister, it would be important if you could explain or make the point of the situation on the regularization of the procedural recovery supplement of judicial officials. According to the Union of Judicial Officers, workers'representatives are not being heard in the procedures for reorganisation of staff maps and for the functioning of the secretaries of the courts, which will certainly call into question what is to be agreed at the level of negotiation of the Statute of the Courts. Madam Minister, do you confirm that the representatives of the workers are not being heard in the process of reorganisation of staff maps and the functioning of the courts' secretaries? If so, what grounds does the Minister consider to be reasonable to justify this attitude of the Government? Finally, according to the Union of Judicial Officers, negotiations between the Government and the Union are apparently suspended because the Ministry of Justice will have to link with the Ministry of Finance the funds for the remuneration table, retirements and the arrangements for payment. These are matters on which there seems to have been even a compromise by the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, Madam Minister, it would be appropriate for us today to clarify the real reasons for the Government to maintain the suspension of negotiations with the representative associations of workers, because, as I said earlier, the administration of justice is not possible without persons and workers with rights, without prejudice to the importance of the measures taken by this Government in this area, in particular those which the Minister mentioned recently, particularly with regard to new admissions to judicial officials and also progress. however, despite the importance of these measures, we believe it would be important for the Minister to speak on the issues which the Greens have brought to debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u83	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u84	I shall conclude by asking the Minister to tell us something about these issues which have been raised by the Greens in this debate and which have not merited any word from her. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u85	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I will answer a question which has been raised before and which I do not answer, which has to do with the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada. Mrs Susana Amador, at the moment, the new Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada is in the following situation: the bill of charges is ready, which will allow us to start the first phase of the work and what is only in question is a set of authorizations of the Ministry of Finance that will be for the subsequent phases, but I would say that everything is referred to — the land, which was handed over by the Regional Government, is identified. Obviously, the work is done by stages, but the work will be started as soon as possible, since there is already a specification of charges that allows us to make the contract for the first phase. With regard to the other questions which have been raised to me, particularly by Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to tell you that we need to have a little more confidence in our institutions. It is not about me being here advertising what is being done, because, as I said, I do not want to discuss praise, but if you read the European Justice Scoreboard 2018 you will realize that, with regard to the average times of the process, Portugal is in very good position in many areas, so we have gained a lot of points in this matter. It does not mean that we are where we want to be, but that we are making a great deal of progress, and the international data that exist confirm what our internal statistics tell us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Justice Pact, we follow the work of the Covenant closely and also have the utmost respect for the results of this work, just as we have been following the proposals made by the parties in the field of justice, as is obvious. With regard to the Covenant, refraining from the measures which imply constitutional revision and those which are already enshrined in the law, such as the possibility of specialization in the higher courts, or other measures which, in our view, might not make sense, we are taking the following course: what was agreed from an institutional point of view — and I think it was with this House — was that Parliament would first listen to the actors involved in the Covenant and that, in a second stage, it would listen to the institutional actors. I expect Parliament to call me to hear about it. In any case, I want to say that there is a set of measures that, by matching with things we were already doing or by matching with the ideas we had for justice, have been incorporated into what is our pipeline in terms of ongoing work. On the question of advisors, we agree completely and also on the Court of Justice. As you know, there are already joint stock exchanges. at this time, through a door, we created a scholarship for the administrative, which was the area in which there was no. Through the number of people we can increase in the system, we think it will be possible to provide this stock exchange. As regards other matters, such as the issue of combating corruption, the means of research, the secret of justice, I would like to say to the honourable Member that the question of the secret of justice is a critical issue — I agree — and crucial in terms of the system for what brings about disbelief or disbelief in the justice system. I come from the system and I have that very deep feeling.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u87	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u88	We have several hypotheses, but the only system I know is the contempt of court, is the system of disrespect by the court, which in our system would constitute an objective form of accountability, on which I have some doubts about the adequacy of the general principles of criminal law. So I think we need to keep talking about it. The only effective system I know is that. The German system, for example, is not based on a great deal of respect for the institutions of justice, which the press has, therefore, no need for such interventions. But, on the limit, the only thing that works is actually the contempt of court, which I consider a hypothesis that can be studied, although I have doubts as to whether it matches with our domestic law or not. With regard to the means of research, when I spoke about my intervention on corruption, I said that I thought — and I think — that there was no need for much more legislation. Why? Because it is an area in which we transpose everything that was international law, in which we have a set of internal diplomas and which, in my view, need to be properly explored. To know what failure we need to do case analysis, retrospective analysis, and of course we need means. The question is: what are the necessary means? I would say, in my assessment, that there is an indispensable means, that it is a systemic work around the process. at this time, we have several procedural phases that are divided between each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u89	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u90	in these phases, also intervene agents that may not have the same degree of specialization. That, in my view, is an area on which action is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u91	That's what I meant!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u92	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, on the issue of laxity, I think that somehow what I said clarified matters in terms of laxity, but with regard to judicial officials, in fact the procedural recovery supplement is being discussed with us and with the Ministry of Finance. Basically, what's at stake when they tell me that, in terms of reorganization of staff maps...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u93	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u94	Only one more minute, Mr. President. We have discussed with the trade union organisations representative of the judicial officers all the matters relevant to their area, in which we obviously include the internal restructuring we do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the last round of questions, to which four Mrs are registered. Members, the first is Mr Rui Cruz, from the PSD, to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u96	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there is no doubt about the importance and role of psychologists in the social reintegration of prisoners. It is therefore of interest to assess the existence of these professionals within the framework of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services. The Ministry of Justice has opted for a policy of hiring these professionals under the provision of services. We are told that the most appropriate for resocialization would be to establish a sufficiently long and stable relationship of trust between the technician and the prisoner to ensure effective action. On the other hand, they are not doing the will of the Prime Minister, who seems to prefer to use budgetary strikes to hire new public servants, in spite of the recovery of current employees' salaries. Therefore, we ask ourselves: when will we consider authorising the hiring of those professionals, senior technicians, psychologists, in an appropriate number to the prison population and the number of reintegration processes? With regard to electronic processing, the legislation provides that the procedural acts of the judicial magistrates and the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office are always practiced in computer support, through the computer system supporting the activities of the courts, and that automatic availability and consultation at the Citius address is ensured. We know that automatic availability is not always ensured and that this technology has failures, it continues to fail, but we continue to confuse deposit with availability, giving as done notifications that do not occur. Similarly, we know that the Information System of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( SITAF ) is almost inexpressive in the area of electronic processing when compared with Citius, requiring the mailing in paper format of numerous documents and procedural pieces. Mr. Minister, when will SITAF acquire features and features identical to those of Citius? When will we have an effective improvement of the computer systems to support the activity of the courts? The reform of the judicial map, the one that truly anarchyized the justice system, was carried out by the previous socialist government, which managed to overload courts of competences and processes, cutting down archives and runners; it managed to leave the abandonment of good equipment and make others completely ungovernable; it managed to keep courts in unworthy buildings, only it could not close. The reform was blind and the government was deaf, irresponsibly anticipated its implementation in a structure that was not prepared to receive it and promoted a shocking imbalance in the network of justice equipment. But now, Madam Minister, in a brilliant economic miracle and after almost three years — 32 months — to study and work in a complex set of measures, still with no significant results, as we are not only satisfied with the reopening of secretaries, where once there were courts, we ask: will the investment plan announced by this socialist government solve all the problems that the former socialist government has caused or not? And, Ex.a., have you already obtained permission from Mr. Minister of Finance or will we have to wait for 2020? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u97	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister of Justice, in mid-May, the Assembly of the Republic approved a draft resolution of the CFP which recommends that the Government speed up the construction process of the new prison establishment of the Algarve and locate it in the parish of São Bartolomeu de Messines. The Report on the Prison and Guardian System, submitted by the Government in September 2017, concluded by the need to build a new prison establishment in the Algarve, with a lease of 600 seats, but does not establish a date for the start and completion of the construction process nor does it concern the location of the new prison establishment. The CFP understands that the construction process of this new prison establishment should be accelerated, providing the Algarve region with a promised infrastructure for more than three decades, but always postponed by successive governments. The CFP also understands that the new prison establishment of the Algarve must be built in the parish of St. Bartolomeu de Messines, in the land acquired by the State for this purpose, in the late 1980s. This land, still in the possession of the State, and according to information collected by the CFP, has a more than sufficient area for the construction of a prison establishment with the lease of 600 inmates, as provided for in the Report on the Prison System and Custody. These are the proposals of the CFP which, having been adopted, have become a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, to which the Government is politically bound. So, Mrs. Minister of Justice, I ask you when the construction of the Algarve prison establishment will begin in the parish of St. Bartolomeu de Messines. for our part, we consider that there are conditions for this construction to begin soon, with the preparatory work to occur still in 2018. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u99	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u100	Mr President, Madam Minister of Justice, first of all, I would like to leave here a deep regret: we are discussing one of the main pillars of a rule of law — justice — on the day of Congress of Advocates, in fact, I am now making a statement of interest, because I am a very important lawyer and I think the Congress is very important, and I am wrong to understand that a minister starts his debate by complaining that he cannot be present at the Congress in the morning so as to be able to be here in the afternoon as to clarify to Parliament the exercise of his mandate as a minor thing. Mrs. Minister, I couldn't help making this regret here. In addition, Mrs. Minister, the clarifications that have unfortunately brought us have been very short. In fact, he referred to a decrease in expectations, and it is true that there has been a decrease in expectations, but the Minister has forgotten to say that this decrease in expectations is not exactly the result of V's work. Ex. in front of the Ministry, but yes, the harvest of fruits of a work that was already done. It was good to admit that this work had already been done and that the fruits were now being harvested. As we said in the initial intervention, we were used to working groups: working groups for this, working groups for that and results cannot be seen. Speaking in working groups, Mrs Minister, the final major plan that is presented to us is the multi-annual strategic plan for the buildings of justice. The Minister speaks of the proximity that she wants to see with the citizens, and even today she mentioned it, as the PS did in her speeches, with the opening up of the new proximity sections. Of course these sections do not pass from a secretary where no one is, besides an official who basically does nothing—and whoever walks through the courts knows it is so—but the truth is that there is this announcement. However, Madam Minister — I am afraid of the horrors! — when we look at this plan, we see that it is based on a completely different strategy, which is centralisation. We see the plan and it tells us that we need to centralize, and it begins immediately through Porto, Lisbon and Coimbra. On the other hand, for Coimbra, Mrs Minister, let me make a separate one because the plan has led me to the past, for working times in Coimbra, and refers to a land next to the Palace of Justice as suitable for construction. I assume it's the land you've been talking about 20 years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u101	He must be in the same place!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u102	...and that it is not any novelty, but if it was never used for any reason it would have been. However, I repeat, what we are talking about is the concentration of buildings: concentration in the comarcas, concentration in the headquarters of the comarcas. When we read the plan, he does not gather us for decentralization, gathers us to the contrary, but this contrary, Mrs. Minister, reminds me of the famous reform of the time of José Socrates, of transforming the judicial map into seven large districts. Yes, because the withdrawal of competences to the courts began with the plan of the former Prime Minister José Socrates, did not begin to a posteriori. Mrs Minister, given the reality of what she announces and this big plan, my question is very simple: firstly, why come to announce in 2018 a strategic plan of EUR 274 million for the period 2018-2028?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u103	It's for the others to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u104	You just said everything, sir! Is it for the others to pay, Minister? Oh, my God! It is that we are at the end of our term of office and now make an announcement for others to assume responsibilities. In fact, it was something we were used to, this « push forward», « the others who do, because we only say we do it».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u105	That's what the Socialist Party knows how to do better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u106	Mr. Minister, finally, one last question. All this is much announced, but is the Minister authorized by Minister Mário Centeno to do whatever it is? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u107	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u108	Mr President, Minister of Justice, I would just like to tell you that the lawyers are of course important agents of justice and, as my colleague said, it is good to regret your absence at the Congress of Advocates, even more carefully listening to the coming here, to Parliament, but the inaugural session was at 11 a.m. and, with political will, perhaps the Minister was able to honour the two commitments, i.e. to be at 11 a.m. in Viseu and to be here at 15 a.m. in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u109	Only if it was Prof. Marcelo! [[PCP and PS rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u110	In the last Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI ), in the category of crimes against sexual self-determination, the crime of rape had a significant increase of more than 21 % in 2017, reaching the highest value of the last 10 years. In view of the fact that it is provided for in this document in the strategic guidelines for 2018, and I would like to mention the « Concreteization of the deepening of the legal framework for the criminalization of gender and domestic violence and sexual crime, in line with the International Conventions to which Portugal is bound », we would like to know whether, in this framework, and in view of the increase in the crimes of rape that occurred in the previous year, there is a specific programme to prevent and combat this type of crime. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, I would like you to realise the scope of these beautiful words — "intensification of the legal framework for the criminalization of gender and domestic violence and sexual crime" — which are included in the RASI as guidelines of the Government. What you mean, in particular, with this. Madam Minister, quickly, because I do not have much time, I would like to tell you that we all recognize that there is a judicial devaluation of domestic violence crimes and that was pointed out in a study that examined several judicial decisions. There are even judges who say that they have never judged domestic violence crimes, which were only a few rattles and kicks. However, this judicial tolerance, Mrs Minister, is no more than a social tolerance that exists with domestic violence and that naturally calls us all — to the Government, to Parliament — and that we must all fight. The Public Prosecutor himself, Mrs. Minister, assumes that he is not prepared to deal with domestic violence. The officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the union recently said this, have no training in this matter, because they are not given by the Ministry of Justice, and there are not enough officials to allow personalized assistance, either by these officials themselves or by the judges themselves. Mr Minister, my question, in particular, is that the previous Government had a robust training plan in this area that we recognize was 'unintensified', so I ask you what concrete measures is that the Minister intends to implement in the judicial system to eradicate and prevent the crime of domestic violence and, above all, to combat this prejudice, which is a social prejudice and which also has reflections on the judiciary and judicial decisions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u111	How do you have the courage to "disintensify" a plan? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u112	To reply again, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the prison system and the human resources, the Government has been working to internalize, i.e. to make a movement contrary to that which existed before, which was the movement of externalization. That's why we've been hiring doctors and nurses to have the minimum staff inside the institutions, which allows to ensure this effective connection between inmates and health personnel. As for the issues of Citius, I would like to say that Citius was probably never as good as he is today. As for SITAF ( Information System of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ), we made 50 interventions in SITAF, Mr. And more: we are extending SITAF to higher courts in the administrative and tax area. With regard to the issue you have put, of communications, of acts by letter, you would say-CL - that we introduce the printing and finishing system in the administrative courts and, therefore, if at some point this has happened, it will necessarily cease to happen. The modification of the judicial organization occurred initially, in an experimental phase, in only three districts, but, as regards the reopening, I want to tell you that, in the period of one year, 1000 trials have been held and, in the last four months of 2018, 400 trials have already taken place. Therefore, to say that they are mere antennas of process reception or is ignorance or is anything else that I cannot identify. As for the authorizations of the Ministry of Finance, I have been asked several times, but I would like to tell you that this government works together and therefore when my colleagues work in areas of justice, of course, they talk to me and we articulate ourselves. Therefore, the Minister of Justice, when dealing with financial matters, obviously, connects with the Minister of Finance, as happens, I take it in any government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the resolution on the construction of the new prison establishment in the Algarve, the Ministry of Justice, the Government, will respect the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic. The only thing I can tell you, Mr President, is that, from our analysis, there are six districts in the country that concentrate 70% of the crime and it was a bit on the basis of which we defined priorities, depending on the state of degradation and the capacity of prisons in areas where higher crime rates occur. That is why our priorities were different, but, having had this decision, of course, we will take note of it. With regard to the questions of the multi-annual strategic plan for justice, I think I already had the opportunity to tell the honourable Member, who put the same question to me in 1. the Commission, which is not about centralising here. It is probably the only thing I can say to be elegant — but I repeat, we are not centralizing courts, what we considered was that the places where there were the most serious problems were just in the large metropolitan areas, in Lisbon, in Porto and in Coimbra. It's natural! And why is it natural, Your Honor? Because this is where the essentials of the process mass are concentrated and, therefore, it is in these areas that we present projects that really involve concentration in building spaces, like what happens today in Lisbon, for example, with the Justice Campus. There's nothing more than that, and I think I explained that to you. As for the question of whether we are doing for others to pay, I would say no, i.e., all we do is for all of us to pay at any time. What you have done is for us to pay, what this government does will be for this government and for the others to pay. But no government is obliged to take on the previous commitments. If the Government that comes to understand that these projects are not good, that it does not do them, what can only be that there are planning instruments, as there were so far not in the area of justice, and in matters as structural as the building and human resources. With regard to the Security Report and the issue of domestic violence, I would just like to recall that it was this government that put the Retrospective Crime Analysis Team into Domestic Violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u114	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u115	I was raised already!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u116	I was raised, but it wasn't installed. Creating on paper is easy, installing is something else. We installed it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] In addition, we have created a Crisis Center for issues of sexual violence that is working well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Sandra Pereira, on that enigmatic issue that has put me on the improvement... [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Mrs. Member, I'm sorry. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u117	Speak at ease!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u118	As I was saying, with regard to that enigmatic issue which has raised me about improvement, the only thing I can say to you is that, as you know, the Istanbul Convention has been transcribed but it has not been fully transcribed, and there are areas of this Convention that need to be transcribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u120	When we say that there is still an intervention to be made, it is specifically in the area of sexual assault, within the framework of the requirements of the Istanbul Convention, which Mrs Deputy certainly knows as well as I do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u121	We are now moving to the stage of intervention. For this purpose, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u122	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A week ago, and today, in this forum where I am, the Minister made a balance sheet of the almost three years of her term of office that she has already taken before the justice system and has been reasonably satisfied. reasonably satisfied with the statistics, reasonably satisfied with the work developed and reasonably satisfied with the plans for the future. however, in addition to some promises, we have not heard a word of substance about the justice pact and the Government's response to the appeal that Mr President of the Republic has made to us, which, so far, and for what matters, only the judicial operators and the CDS have responded. unlike the Minister, the CDS feels reasonably dissatisfied with the statistics, quite dissatisfied with the work carried out by the Ministry of Justice and particularly concerned with plans for the future. As far as statistics are concerned, we have recorded and highlighted the slight improvement in the number of expectations, but we point out, Mrs Minister, that we remain dangerously close to 1 million suspensions in civil courts, not as fast as in the previous three years. And this gets worse when we look at the administrative and fiscal courts, where the dramatic accumulation of processes persists and persists, remaining in about 1000 days that one year would need to have to be resolved all the administrative and fiscal processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u124	Moreover, that is why we look with particular concern at the work done by the Government in the area of justice and why we have been presenting, for three months now, a set of proposals aimed not only at improving statistics but above all at bringing confidence, speed and effectiveness to the justice system, and at giving guarantees and the effective right of access to citizens. A work which the government has promised and boasted, but which — not surprisingly — has not done. In addition to changes to the judicial map and to technological standards and simplification, there is little left for this government to show. Almost one year after the end of the useful mandate, is it time to ask the following, Mrs Minister: when is the implementation of rapid intervention boards and offices as proposed by the CDS and the Government promised? Oh, my God! The CDS will be able to count on the government company for the arbitration proposals, which await themselves in 1. the Commission and what are they also part of a role of promises that remain forgotten? Oh, my God! When, and I quote the Government Programme, « (...) the radical innovation of civil procedural culture(...) that allows the dynamic management of the process by the judge »? These proposals were also submitted by the CDS and are also based on the solidarity of the 1st Commission. What about when, Mrs Minister, the completion of the work of the right-to-right working group or the promise of review of judicial costs, for the fulfilment of a true right of access to justice, proposals which the CDS has also presented for more than a year? Oh, my God! Madam Minister, when can we expect a real government intervention in justice, for which the judicial agents are waiting, the Portuguese are looking for and the President of the Republic is crying out? Oh, my God! We will arrive at the end of the debate and take, as usual, very little, Mrs. Minister. What specific deadlines and initiatives can the Government undertake today, here and now, to initiate the discussion of reform of the justice system?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u126	To assess what the Minister has already said — and from here on I remain concerned about the Government's plans for the future — none of these matters will be dealt with in a short time and the proposals of the CD will remain hostage to the inaction of the majority, not because they are not good, not because they are not useful, but because the Government and the majority are simply refusing to act and, worse, to carry out much of what they have promised. Mrs Minister, to assess what you have already said, the near future will basically pass through a strange law on the programming of justice infrastructures, apparently designed with a plan to 10 years but with a budget planned for only 5 years. In addition to very short and without major impact on Portuguese justice concerns, it is at least difficult to understand how a 10-year plan is made with a five-year budget. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We know of difficulties, we know the limits, we do not ignore the shortage of resources, but governing is much more than promising and announcing. To govern is to make choices and to govern well means to make the best choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u128	In March this year, in this same forum, the CDS made it clear that it intended to leave its contribution in order to improve the quality of Portuguese justice and to add, in addition to its proposals, a question to what Mr President of the Republic said: what answer do you have to give to justice by the ladies and gentlemen. Members who make up the majority? Apparently, none. That is why, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we repeat the question: when is a sign that is? A profound reform of justice is now postponed, because the PS refused the constitutional review proposed by the CDS and imposed. However, the CDS will continue work on the forum for justice reform, led by Mr. Professor Rui Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u130	however, there are a whole series of small but significant measures—and they are not adjustments on the judicial map or an amended infrastructure plan—which can help to make the difference now. The CDS was the only one that has ever contributed. Why are you waiting, Minister? Why are you waiting, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u131	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, is now speaking also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u132	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With regard to justice, I feel - I am tempted to initiate this intervention with a quote, precisely by Martin Luther King: «I am not who I would like to be; / I am not who I could be, yet, / I am not who I should be. But I am no longer who I was". In some ways, this phrase summarizes the evolution of justice from a recent past to our present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Improving access to justice is crucial. It is important, therefore, in a clear and objective way, to understand the path that we have made in these two and a half years. To this end, the judicial map was re-adjusted, making available, in territorial areas marked by interiority, 47 judges of proximity, 20 of whom by reactivating courts closed by the previous government in 2014, and 23 by conversion of proximity sections, where they began to hold trial hearings and, in some of them, there was competence for juvenile jurisdiction. There were unfoldings of family and minor judgments in seven new judgments. The justice of 700 000 people in the area of criminal justice and 300 000 people in the area of family and juvenile justice has come close. More recently, it has been announced that civil disputes will be settled in these courts up to the amount of €50 000. But it is important that we all remember the much that was said and written about this initiative, the noise that was then created, how much this measure was devalued. I am sure that Dr. Rui Rio, in his announced diagnosis of justice, will not fail to recognize the progress made in terms of proximity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Strengthening the human resources is also one of the main pillars of political and governmental action. For example, in the last three years 380 new judges have entered, compared with the 160 who entered the previous government from 2011 to 2015. In 2016 and 2017, access to the promotion of 600 judicial officers was unlocked and the entry of 400 new officials was promoted. The fight against the laziness of justice, with the decrease in the number of expectations and the reduction in the duration of time, is an essential aspect. last May, the results for the fourth quarter of 2017 were published. As has already been said today, expectations have been reduced in some 300 000 cases and there has been a reduction of 25 000 percentage points in almost all jurisdictions, including in the administrative and tax jurisdiction, without prejudice to the fact that in this case the results are not so significant, although a number of measures have already been announced recently by the Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a very special point: this decrease, which is the lowest expectation of the last 10 years, has essentially been achieved at the cost of procedural resolution rates that remain above 120 % today. As already mentioned here today, but I can only point out, if there were any doubts, it would suffice to hear what Mr President of the Supreme Court said in January this year, who confirmed all the indicators and pointed out precisely that, of all aspects related to waiting, processing and response, the results are extremely positive. But there has also been a very significant intervention by this government in the prison system. In contrast to 2015, the prison population decreased by 10 %, i.e. about 1,000 prisoners less. of 113 % employment, increased to 103 %. These are numbers, these are facts! We have reduced the prison population, increased the actual number of prison guards, with about 400 new prison guards, compared to 2015, we are improving living conditions within prison establishments and, for the first time, we have a multi-year strategy to re-qualify and modernize the prison system and to protect for the next 10 years, both at the level of equipment and human resources. I would also like to mention, as the last and not least important aspect, the fight against economic and financial crime, bearing in mind the challenges that we face both within the internal and international framework. I would like to highlight just a few measures, and among many of them, I would mention, for example, the creation of the National Unit for Combating Cybercrime and Technological Crime and the installation of the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation. But I also want to highlight the effective strengthening of investment. The State budget for the Ministry of Justice has increased spending on criminal investigation over the past three years from EUR 223 million to EUR 261 million in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude with the deep conviction that, after this debate, the PSD and its leadership will have made it easier for its work to prepare the announced diagnosis, because only a little difficulty in identifying reality allows us to understand that an inquiry to the government on justice is scheduled without any concrete to propose. As has already been said here today, if the way in which they are seen is to approach, improve management, reduce procedural dependencies, humanize and prepare the future, be welcome. If that is the case, we will not, as in the past, have lost rulers, party leaders who regret having voted on their party partners or rulers in conflict with the structure of justice. We will certainly have a justice always, always, better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u133	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In an opinion paper published today, Dr. Guilherme Figueiredo said that we should be able to speak of a national justice service, as if we could speak of a National Health Service or a national education service. I believe that this statement deserves our full reflection when we discuss justice in Portugal. For some, it might be a utopia, but when the National Health Service was created by António Arnaut, it was also said that this was a utopia. We need strong confrontations, strong proposals to move forward towards the qualification of public service and democracy. Let us therefore think of a national justice service, which, I believe, has three essential aspects. First, a national justice service necessarily starts from a strict identification of who our citizens and our citizens are furnished, for economic, social and cultural reasons, with access to the public good « justice ». This identification will enable us to establish a strategy based, as in the National Health Service, on a principle of free access to justice, on a network of proximity of response of the justice service to Portuguese citizens and citizens and on a positive discrimination of the poorest. Thus a national justice service must function at the time of our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u136	Secondly, it is well known that the audacity of wanting a national justice service will always have the opposition, will always have the animosity of the enemies of the public service, who, in fact, behave in this way towards the National Health Service and, for the most part, would behave-CL- themselves, or must behave in this way every time they take a step towards the creation of a true national justice service. They will present to us seductive strategies, privatization strategies, such as arbitration, misjudgment strategies. It'll always be like this... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It will always be so, and we are already listening to the voices of those who react, of course, uncomfortable with this proposal. It's only natural that this is how it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u137	Troubled is with ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u138	But for those who defend the primacy of public service, there is an answer and that response...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u139	It's captivating!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u140	... is the provision of the national justice service with qualified human resources, in a public service culture. That, too, is missing. Finally, a national justice service must always be a service based on a serious, strategic investment, social reintegration, legal support and human and technical means. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: For the Block on the Left, this must be the horizon to guide us in a discussion on justice in the field of Portuguese democracy. Is this a utopia? Don't! It is only the product of our determination and our political will. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u141	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Almost at the end of this appeal to the Government it is important to say that it essentially corresponded to our expectations. And what were those expectations? Actually, none of them! We know what the PSD's action in the government in the area of justice and we also know the emptiness of what the ideas of the PSD have been, in this matter, with its new leadership, in which the new PSD leader, at the exit of some meetings with agents of the justice system, has made a harsh statement that the PSD has not yet been able to translate into strictly nothing concrete. from then that the PSD comes out of this question as it has entered, i.e. by hand on proposals relating to the justice system, with no great courage to defend what was the policy of its government in this matter, but also without demarcating itself from this political action which it has developed. So, what the PSD here is saying is that it defends a reform of justice, whatever it is, it feels that this reform of justice has to have the PSD agreement and believes that this reform of justice should be widely discussed, but, in terms of what it thinks about what this reform of justice should be, there, it does not make any contribution to us. So, what has been said here is that the PSD still has no proposals, criticises the government, because the government has more working groups than the work it has done, which, in my speech, has also had the opportunity to say, i.e. that, in fact, there are more working groups than, up to now, work, but it happens that the PSD does not have one thing or another, i.e., it does not have either work or work....
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u143	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u144	...and what you're here to say is that you have no proposals but will. You don't have any proposals, but I'd like to have... [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] Therefore, it is willing, but... but the PSD has reassured us: wait, because the PSD, until the end of the legislative session, must present proposals. with regard to us, Mr President, as our time is over, we hope, but we will wait for sitting. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u145	We are now moving to the closing stage of the debate and to that end Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u146	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD reaches the end of this debate with three assurances, the first of which is that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party faced this debate in a sour, bitter, [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] ... manifesting no intention of converging.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u147	Converging with what?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u148	They want to continue to diverge, clinging to a past, because you have crystallized back there. They come with a few clichés, with some flags, but let's go. This is the first conclusion! The second conclusion is that the Government brings to this debate such a flag the reduction of the number of expectations. It could be worse, it is true, but, Madam Minister, with the humility and seriousness that is recognized to you, the Minister should look to her right side and greet, greet and acknowledge that what is today the reduction of the number of expectations is due very much to the Minister of the former Government, Dr. Paula Teixeira da Cruz, who is sitting on the bench of the PSD. It was to her that we should also thank her for having our expectations today. [[PSD applause.]] But the Socialist Party and the Government — plus the Socialist Party — also come here with the cliché of the closing of the courts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to talk about the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u149	It's better, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u150	...but against facts there are no arguments. If it is true that the PSD has closed 20 courts—and we cannot hide the truth—is it also true that a Mr. Secretary of State you know — do you remember Dr. João Correia? Oh, my God! — submitted to you a document to close 52 courts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u151	How many years ago was that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u152	... and you just didn't lock them up, because the government has changed and you are no longer able to close.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u153	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u154	But in terms of closures, you are the champions. They remember what happened between 2008 and 2011 : you have closed the posts of the CTTs; you have closed GNR posts; you have closed basic schools; you have closed social security services; you have closed agencies of the General Deposit Box. And they had this captivated desire to close courts that they had already consumed in this legislature without knowing it or not saying out here that they did. Do you know what the trick was? The trick was they made an aggregate of judges. In four districts of this country, they added, joined courts, putting a judge to serve two courts. This is a dead end and this must be denounced! [[PSD applause.]] The third conclusion, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is that everyone understands — and we too feel — that the justice system does not work efficiently and that its public image is worn out. They are lawyers who distrust their welfare system; they are lawyers who ask for better conditions and claim better compensation; they are judges who have no answer to their career progress. in what is easy, Mrs. Minister, you resolve! in what's difficult, push the belly! This is the case with the salary status of the judges, this is the case with the prison guards, this is the case with the judicial officers, registries and notaries. This is even the case with the Judicial Police! Don't hurt to tell you, with great frankness, that there is practically no one satisfied, confident and mobilized with the work of this government. The expectations that were created with the artificial discourse that we have already seen the page of austerity are being cheated from day to day. As you know, those who sow easy winds end up reaping storms of difficulty, and the Minister will still feel that. That is also why Mr President of the Republic called on all justice officers to join together. That is why the PSD has organized meetings with several judicial agents in recent weeks. And, made this round, is there more unfair criticism than the one you're here to do? Oh, my God! So it wasn't reasonable for the PSD to listen to the government about what it has to say about justice? Oh, my God! Was it not reasonable for the PSD to listen to other parties about what they have to say about justice? Oh, my God! This, for what, tomorrow,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u155	Ah! It's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u156	... with the document we are going to propose—and it is not a document full of nothing, it is a document with many proposals—that it is possible to know whether you are prepared to introduce your suggestions, to give your ideas and to make your contributions. We do not want to mark the agenda, we do not want the headline of the next day, we have no particular objective but only to pursue a national design with a patriotic spirit and a sense of state. We will not enter party complaints, we will not send slogans to the air, we will not point the finger to anyone, especially the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u157	They've pointed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u158	...we just want to help the country, summoning everyone's help. We want to tell you that our proposals will never be closed...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u159	Proposals... I'll wait to sit down!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u160	Mr.António Filipe, it was better to wait standing and start running after these proposals, because we also have many ideas, and very good. On the other hand, in the area of civil service, it agrees or does not agree that there must be refinements in respect of executions, of the work of the executing agent, of the notifications to the parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u161	Ah! Is it now that the proposals are put forward? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u162	...maybe one of the segments that delays the processes? Oh, my God! in the administrative and fiscal area, do you or do you not need more resources and more means? in the criminal area, there is much to be done about the secret of justice and there is much to be done about combating corruption. And in this area, the example should come from above! in this regard, the PSD is perfectly at will, so much so that it has already refused the support of candidates for office, of people indicted by such crimes, and is at the forefront of narrowing the regime of incompatibilities of political positions. But everyone could talk like that! ... What happens to the Deputy Minister of this government is not framed—right! — on this issue, in this logic, but typifies what could be worse passed on to citizens: the violation of ethical and conduct rules and the impunity with which it is treated. Whoever does not comply with legal rules on incompatibilities, who does not comply with the law, cannot be a minister! It is the law itself which commensurates this violation with resignation and, if not the law, should be at least the conscience of the Deputy Minister, Minister Siza Vieira, or the Prime Minister's conscience to tell him that he should immediately cease his duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u164	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the PSD knows very well what it wants, but it also knows that it is not self-sufficient. No reform of justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u165	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u166	... is done only by your hand, by your initiative and only by your contributions. The PSD here therefore presents the challenge of the common, enlarged effort, with the involvement of all only and so much to think about in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u167	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by saying that I am willing to thank all the positive contributions of the past, and I say - truly. I just wanted to know who to thank for what has come from the past is not going well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This debate has shown that we all have a huge desire and, surely, the rightest intention of helping to design and implement more effective policies in the area of justice. The debate was, in fact, very interesting and the contributions are all welcome to be realized and when framed in this great national design. But we need to have a lexicon founded on validated and credible analysis instruments, a sort of common grammar, which guides us to the definition of immediate steps with a view to the results we want: an equal justice done in a reasonable time. If we are guided more by indicators than by perceptions, we will correct mistakes and change perceptions. I would say that in a debate of these, realism and justice are required. Realism demands what is happening and justice is required in the evaluation of the government's action and results. On the contrary, we will always pursue a reformist, persistent and untiring, but sterile and, in the end, frustrating pursuit. The government's political action focused on three key areas: first, the improvement of access to justice in its various dimensions; second, the strengthening of human resources, the improvement of management, the modernization and the humanization of its organizations; third, the fight against laxity with reduced expectations and improvement during the process. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Policies are validated according to results. I have already told you today of the results that we have obtained in one of these dimensions, which is very relevant, but in addition, with the aim of improving access to justice, as you know, we reopened the courts closed in 2014 ; we guarantee the hearing by videoconferencing within the districts and also from the prisons ; with the movement we have done, we have approximated 700 000 people of criminal justice and 300 000 of family and minors justice ; within one year, the courts of proximity have held 1176 trials, with the intervention of 7432 citizens, and, as I said, in the last four months of 2018, 463 trials have been carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This test has shown us that it is possible to improve and it is possible to do so without ruptures. That is why we are now preparing for the amendment of the law to admit civil judgments up to EUR 50 000. We also introduced more than 1000 effective people into the system. In none of the professional classes in the area of justice there are today less effective than in 2015, even considering the outputs that occurred in the meantime. More: we have done applied training; we have renewed and qualified training for the county management bodies; we have produced and made available to the Higher Council and management bodies the management indicators that allow today to monitor the activities of the courts by areas; we have improved the procedural processing systems that were mentioned here. Both the security of Citius and SITF, and the set of actions that were taken with SITF, were clearly interventions that improved the relationship of justice with citizens. In fact, only ignorance can lead to these matters being discussed. As I said, we also have a broad process of reorganization and modernization of the judicial secretaries and this process, which is ongoing and very advanced in many courts, is indeed one of the causes, one of the engines of the results we have been presenting. In two years, as has already been said, in the common jurisdiction, we have obtained a cumulative reduction of 25 percentage points. The reduction of expectations, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential in training for greater speed, since with the expectations we had we would not succeed in not being with an increase, impossible, of effectiveness in the system. On the other hand, we have reduced the prison population and are improving living conditions within prison establishments. If we abstain from jails for days still running, the prison system as a whole is no longer overcrowded. They also know, because it has already been said, that we have done thorough analysis of all sectors, with radiographies and reports, that they will allow us to work and to whom we will come in the future to use this documentation, if we understand it, to continue in the activity. More. Today, we have programming instruments that were lacking in justice in matters as structural as physical infrastructures or human resources. In short, we approach, improve management, reduce expectations, humanize, prepare the future. Allow me, Mr. President and Mr. Members, who finish remembering Lewis Carroll, in Alice in Wonderland, when Alice, lost, without knowing where to walk, asks for help from a cat who, knowing that Alice does not know which destination she wants to reach, replies: «For those who do not know where any path goes». We know where we are going, we know the way, we have done what is right, we have no reason not to pursue and deepen our line of action, but all contributions will be welcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-14.u169	Mrs. Members, the proceedings concerning the appeal to the Government No 20/ XIII are thus concluded ( 3 ). ( a ), on justice, on the PSD initiative, but let me announce the agenda for tomorrow's session. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the session starts at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. The first point consists of a current debate, marking of the CFP, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme « Organization of the next academic year, career and contests of teachers ». in point two, discussion-CL will be - together, in general, the proposed law no. 131 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Change the Local Finance Act, and the projects of lein.o 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Local Finance Act ( PCP ) and 883/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the financial autonomy of municipalities and introduces judicial measures in municipal taxes ( BE ). in point three, the discussion of Bill No 134 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed in point 3. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 recalibrating the full production of effects of the Budget Framework Act. The discussion of the General Account of the State of 2016 is followed in point four. in point 5, the proposed law No 119 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Establishs the cyberspace security legal regime, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148. in point six, the projects of lein.os 869 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed in general. — To implement a system of incentive and storage of plastic, glass and aluminium drinks (PAN) and 882 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implements a system of deposit, return and return of beverage packages (recoverable tara) and creates the respective collection system through incentive (first amendment to the unified waste flow regime) ( BE) together with draft resolution No 1016 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Awareness campaigns for waste reduction and selective deposition appropriate to recycling ( The Greens ). Finally, in point seven, there will be regular votes. In view of the announcement I referred to, the distributed agenda, in relation to point two, has deleted draft law No 890 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more to be dealt with for today, I declare the sitting closed, wishing everyone a good afternoon. [[It was 17 hours and 32 minutes.]]
