ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on our agenda are the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 132 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the new Industrial Property Code, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2015 / 2436 and ( EU ) 2016 / 943. To open the debate, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government brings to Parliament a proposal for legislative authorisation which basically aims to authorize it to transpose two directives from the European Parliament and the Council on the protection of industrial property. They are Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2436, which approximates the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks, and Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 943, on the protection of know-how and confidential information, the so-called « commercial secrets », against their illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. At the same time, we use to simplify and clarify a set of administrative procedures relating to both the allocation, maintenance, cessation and validity of industrial property rights, as provided for in the Industrial Property Code, and also to establish a set of mechanisms to strengthen the rights protection system and to improve the effectiveness of the repression of infringements. Considering the scope of the matters involved, and having spent 15 years on the approval of the Industrial Property Code, we believe that it would make sense to present a new code, a new diploma, and not to amend the previous diploma. At the same time, and recognizing us that the circumstantialism that has led to the creation of the existing system, with regard to emerging disputes about industrial property rights in terms of generic medicines and reference drugs, we consider that the conditions for changing the situation and ending the necessary arbitration are met, moving to a system of voluntary arbitration or access to the court according to the will of the parties concerned. At the time when Law No 62 / 2011 was published, as you recall, there was no specific court for these matters. The Intellectual Property Tribunal was installed only in 2012 and there is currently a court that is installed, which works, which has the conditions to answer, so there is no reason to delete it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u3	Mrs Minister for Justice, the Bureau records the entries of two Mrs. Members, one from the CDS-PP and the other from the PS, to request clarification. I suppose you'll answer together...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u4	Yes, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u5	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister of Justice, in her speech, has touched on a point which we consider to be central in this proposal and which, in our view, is wrong, which is the question of extending the patents of medicinal products from the pharmaceutical industry beyond the normal and legal deadline of the patent. In 2011 the Law on the Code of Industrial Property changed, and changed for the better, allowing discussion to take place on the introduction of generic medicines, for which branding medicines are much more expensive — more expensive to the taxpayer, more expensive to the state — even if they have the same active principle; this discussion was postponed, precisely because large pharmaceutical companies had a system of arbitration needed and, in this same arbitration, they were able, for a long time, to prevent the entry of generic medicines into the market. Looking at the figures, since the legal amendment in 2011, the truth is that the rate of penetration of generics in Portugal has shifted from something like 36 % of the market to 44 %, meaning an annual saving of EUR 100 million, either directly to the taxpayers who have to make their health consumptions or to the State itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u8	That is precisely why, Mrs. Minister, we are very surprised that in this proposal which brings the House back to the system before 2011, imposing a necessary arbitration. And even more strange, Mrs. Minister, because, in the working group that worked on this same diploma, the solution found was not this one, it was exactly the same solution in 2011 that proved to protect Portuguese people, particularly in as important consumption as those of health. That is why, Madam Minister, we are very surprised that, between the initial proposal of the working group and the final proposal that came out of the Council of Ministers during the process in the Council of Ministers, this rule has changed, which has a great impact on families and the State. Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that there will be a request for this bill to be brought down to committee, because, in the field of specialty, the CDS intends to amend this rule by returning to the old system in which, with agreement between the parties, arbitration may exist and, without agreement between the parties, the request will be made in a court of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u10	For us, this aspect is absolutely decisive, even for our sense of vote, so I would like to know whether the Government is available to accept proposals to ensure that, in these matters, arbitration is always voluntary and not necessary, as is defined in the text of the bill, even contrary to what is mentioned in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u12	It is only that, Madam Minister, if you read Article 3. that of the proposal, clearly realizes that what is foreseen is a necessary arbitration and not a voluntary arbitration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u13	Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister of Justice, in fact today, we are discussing a very important legislative initiative here. First of all, we would like to greet the Minister of Justice for moving forward with a bill that amends the Industrial Property Code, which has been in force for 15 years and has already undergone about seven amendments. In addition to implementing the Trademarks and Industrial Secrets Directives, this is a fundamental initiative in an economy such as Portuguese, which is currently seeking to rise in its value chain and which, of course, also aims to give security and stability to all investors and all companies that are decisively engaged in innovation, research, in order to take an increasingly dominant role in the national economy and the international economy. The issue raised by Mr Mota Soares of the CDS Parliamentary Group is important, but it will be very short-lived to discuss this matter only on this point. As I said, the PS welcomes this legislative initiative and gives its agreement to the principles and model of development of this new code of industrial property. I would also like to say to the Minister that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been sought by a wide range of economic actors involved in this area, which demonstrates the importance and relevance of this legislative initiative. I confess, Mrs. Minister, that these agents have brought several contributions and comments, on which, in our view, we must reflect properly, in this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u15	We should have reflected!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u16	... so that a legislative package as important as this may not only deserve the support of all economic agents who daily use this very important mechanism for the protection of innovation and research, but also give rise to a law that responds to the needs of a world in constant innovation, in a world where research is often difficult to grasp by law. Therefore, Madam Minister, we believe that, without prejudice to the urgency of approving this legislative initiative, it will make every sense that there can be a debate in the field of expertise, which is naturally based on the fact that we are in the presence of an application for legislative authorisation. in this framework, it will be up to the Assembly, even in the committee, to discuss technical issues, promoting a less political and more technical discussion, which should take place not in this plenary but, rather, in committee. I would like to stress, Madam Minister, that this legislative authorization gives us a good legal degree, a good transposition of the Directives, a set of objectives we share with the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u18	... and, therefore, we understand that we are on the right path to intellectual property and industrial property in Portugal as a fundamental instrument in the defence of innovation and research. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u19	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions. I believe that there will be a misunderstanding on the issue raised by Mr Pedro Mota Soares. Indeed, the regime we had was of necessary arbitration and, unless there is a delay, the proposal is precisely in the sense of moving to voluntary arbitration, as an alternative to the use of the Intellectual Property Tribunal. If there is a misunderstanding on our part, we will change the proposal, but the logic is exactly that, and ultimately this solution was agreed with the main agents of the sector, the APIFARMA ( Portuguese Association of Pharmaceutical Industry) and the APOGEN ( Portuguese Association of Generic and Biosimilar Medicines), which were completely in agreement. I just want to ask the ladies. Members who are aware that the deadline for transposition of the directives contained in this request for legislative authorisation has already been exceeded and, therefore, we are currently failing to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u21	Madam Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u22	In the case of a proposal for legislative authorisation, the Government will then still have to work and therefore called on Parliament to speed up the closure of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u23	Mr Paulo Rios of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u24	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Dear colleagues : Despite some limitations in voice, I will try to be clear. Mrs. Minister, as you have noticed, and I think that has been, today, very explicitly, a matter of this relevance is not discussed in 3 minutes. I'm sure you'll agree with me. Much less we are discussing a matter of this importance 'to the three sides', allow me to say this, trying today to be voted on in general, in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote. It is not a very proper way to discuss, even more so when it has been realized, by the small discussion we have made, that the introduction of the amendments is not clear. The Minister said that this proposal basically aims to implement directives, but the problem is beyond 'basicly' because, as the Minister knows, the economic and social impact of some amendments is enormous. I must say that we are most afraid, not to say, first of all, that a subject of this relevance comes to Parliament at this speed, masked, allowing me - the expression, the transposition of directives; secondly, and more than that, that this proposal is not even accompanied by the elements on which the conclusions or the amendment of the law are based, especially when, apparently, the conclusions of the working group will not tell us - I say 'they will not tell us', because we do not have them, the government has not sent them - precisely that, of course, they have even been relatively coherent and of broad consensus. to PSD, Minister, it is important to say that this is a matter of great importance, particularly with regard to consumer protection, consumer rights protection and the protection of registers and trademarks. The impact is brutal. The PSD will do three things in this regard: firstly, here today and now, we denounce this slight way of managing the problem; secondly, we have entered into a request to this House that this proposal be voted on only in general today, allowing a wider discussion, although speeding up — I understand its concerns — within committee, within which we can hear all those interested in the process; and thirdly, we will not cease to request, for this purpose, the establishment of a working group to find a solution more quickly, mainly informed, transparent and clear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u25	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau does not register any more entries for interventions on this point, although there are several parliamentary groups that have not yet spoken. [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are faced with fundamental issues that involve central interests of economic power in a capitalist society. The position of the CFP and the warnings we have been making over the years on the implications and threats to development resulting from these policies of imprisonment and marketing of the knowledge we have been witnessing, even more so when we take into account the concrete reality of our country, our economy, our scientific and technological system, in the face of a European Union and a European patent system of unitary effect, in a framework of deep inequality. This proposal for a government law, as has already been said, follows a process of discussion in a working group involving entities involved in this matter, and what is evident is that there is no record of this work in this legislative process. Opinions, discussions, conclusions of this working group were not shared with this House, and should have been. In such a way that the opinion of 1. The Commission draws attention to this. The issue of arbitration has already been raised here. We, PCP, want to be very clear and we know our position: we are directly against and we approve the repeal of the so-called « necessary arbitration ». What is indispensable is to value and ensure the conditions for justice to work, and it works well, and it is in the courts of the State that justice should be done. The problem is whether voluntary arbitration is really voluntary. And we are going further than what has been put so far in this debate: under what conditions is such agreement between the parties, when it comes to a small and large company? Or when is one of the parties economically dependent on the other? in these cases, the proposal presented by the CFP now—and the proposal to amend the extension of the legislative authorization of the proposed law is to ban the use of arbitration for these situations. In general, there is no agreement between the parties, the instance, by definition, where the dispute should be settled is the court. But there are other issues that we will certainly have an opportunity to deepen in the Commission, and we have already highlighted two concrete examples. One of them is the so-called « utility model », a less complex model, potentially more favourable to the national industry, which would make it less vulnerable to the inequality of the economic power of European and international giants. This option of not allowing the applicability of a model of ownership to industry should be reconsidered and we must do this debate, in fact, is one of the conclusions of the working group that should be taken into account. Another example that we highlight here is the prohibition of dual protection between the so-called 'European patent system of unitary effect' and the national system, so let us say, with Portuguese justice, that it cannot be ruled out, by referring to the European protection system what is in place in this area, and not only in Portugal. Therefore, what is most positive in the amendments to this legislation should not be reversed or perverted, in a process in which essential issues raised in the debate remain in the way, or even reach the Assembly of the Republic. It is therefore important to recover this work, this heritage of reflection, debate and proposal that the working group has developed and that we will have to take into account in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u27	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u28	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate, which is based on a very long legislative authorization, is part of a good principle, which is the Government's to hand over to the Assembly of the Republic the decree which it intends to adopt on the basis of this legislative authorisation. But, as you can see, this decree-law is very extensive, because, in fact, it makes a transposition of several directives and reformulates the rights of industrial property in a reasonably profound way. The request made by the PSD not to discuss the speciality at the same time is, in a way, understood, something which is a matter for parliamentary assessments, because this allows a more informed debate to be held in the Assembly of the Republic. The way in which we have heard the Minister respond to the PSD's request, the Government has already announced and is therefore safeguarded that principle which is important to us. Indeed, in making this agenda, the Conference of Leaders did so almost automatically, without looking at the content and weight of a diploma of this dimension. for our part, we are sensitive to changing the criteria of arbitration — that is, to us, is relevant — and we are available to participate in the speciality in a speedy manner, as the Minister has asked, in order to improve a few more aspects, but we believe that the diploma, as such, is already part of a good reflection on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u29	As there are no more entries to close the debate, Mrs Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having heard all the proposals made here, the Government is obviously in agreement with the need to further deepen these matters in the field, particularly those which have been discussed here. The only thing I asked of them was speed, but we're available to send all the information. I would like to stress that we have worked with 16 representations of agents in the sector and that there has been a very thorough work. There is a first proposal of ours that is sent, they say, we have received about 250 amendments, we accept almost 200, and then we set up the working group after that. There is therefore, in fact, a very hard job here, but I think that Parliament has every right and duty to listen to these people and to speak. What I ask of you, please, is speed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u31	We will enter the second point of our agenda, which is that of the general discussion of the Bill No 138 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity and the procedural regime applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-orders the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 97. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When buying a financial product, families and small investors have become more protected since this year, with new rules that we have adopted for the capital markets and for the bank. The Government now comes to this House to propose a fundamental change in the rules on the distribution of insurance. The bill I present to you regulates the design and distribution of insurance products, with the ultimate objective of customer safety. The new insurance distribution scheme brings insurance legislation closer to existing legislation for capital market products and banking products. This proposal necessarily includes differences justified by the specific nature of insurance contracts. We do not intend to make a revolution in the sector, we intend to improve the protection of users and beneficiaries of insurance products. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight the main lines of this bill. This proposal reinforces and simplifies pre-contractual information to be provided by insurance distributors. This proposal increases the transparency and quality of the insurance distribution process with the aim of avoiding inadequate sales. But this proposal also strengthens the powers of the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ) by providing it with additional means to act. In particular, the proposal strengthens and updates the sanctions regime applicable to inadequate business practices in the insurance sector. The new legal framework benefits all customers, whatever the distribution channel they access, i.e., whether insurance is sold by an insurance undertaking, by an agent or by a broker. Thus, differences in the conditions under which the sale of the same insurance product by direct means or by means of an intermediary are terminated. In Portugal, the word « insurance » is associated with a risk-free product, a conservative product, due to the etymological nature of the term « insurance ». But this perception does not always reflect the real nature of the product, it can even induce a wrong perception, especially in the case of insurance-based investment products. This proposal therefore devotes a chapter to the special protection of customers in the distribution of insurance-based investment products. But your object is not exhausted at this end, because insurance products are much more than investment products and this proposal aims to regulate all insurance products. In order to avoid inadequate sales, those who design insurance products will be required to define governance policies for these products. insurance distributors shall be able to ensure that the product they sell is in accordance with the customer profile and meets their real needs. Also in order to combat inadequate sales, information and advice in the distribution of insurance are strengthened. The advantage of the existence of specialized distributors is precisely this, to provide the customer with clear and unequivocal information about the product they are selling. Therefore, whoever sells needs to know the characteristics of the product that is selling and informing the customer. To this end, qualifications and vocational training requirements are strengthened. The sale of an insurance product must meet the requirements and needs of the customer; it is up to the seller to ensure that this is the case. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present is another initiative that improves the effectiveness of the financial supervision provided for in the Government Programme to increase the safety and confidence of customers in our financial system. I have no doubt that this diploma represents a demanding challenge for the insurance sector, but I am sure that the insurance sector meets the new requirements. With this proposal, we will have a more dynamic, more solid and more transparent insurance market than all Portuguese will benefit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u33	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposed law currently under discussion, which seeks to transpose into the internal legal order a European Union Directive on the distribution of insurance, provides as a greater motivation the strengthening of the protection of insurance users, especially through greater regulation and greater requirement as regards the requirements of professional qualification and market conduct. The CFP naturally follows measures aimed at improving the protection of customers of financial institutions, in particular insurers, but we must not fail to point out a considerable increase in the bureaucratic burden imposed on the various actors. Some of these bureaucratic taxes, being difficult to implement, will tend to be recorded only as a theoretical manifestation of the legislator's naive will. The purpose of this bill is also to strengthen the powers of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, in particular foreign distributors. This strengthening of powers may even be considered beneficial. However, this circumstance should not be used to fuel the illusion that the problems of the insurance sector, in particular, and of the financial sector, in general, can be solved with the addition of successive regulatory and supervisory layers. As proved by exhaustion, the serious problems of the financial sector persist, with extremely negative impacts on the real economy and with astronomical burdens on the public record, despite successive reinforcements of supervisory powers. The solution to these problems passes, as the CFP has long defended, by the public control of the bank, the insurance sector and other strategic sectors of the national economy, placing them at the service of national interests. We also point out that the Community Directive now intended to be transposed into Portuguese law further favours the concentration of the market in the distribution of insurance in banks, brokers and large agents. Let us look at three examples of this market concentration. First, the bank moves from the current category of brokers connected to that of insurance agents, strengthening its intervention and domain, which, in fact, already has in the « Life » sector. Second, the leveling of complex requirements, either for registration or for the development of the activity, by the various categories of distributors, clearly discourages small mediators, who, being holders of less significant portfolios, will tend to abandon the activity. Thirdly, increasing the value of counter-coordinations is another challenge for small mediators. The CFP rejects this concentration and centralisation, persistently imposed by the European Union, with the agreement of the national authorities, since it aims to establish the domain of the major continental financial groups, conflicts with national interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u35	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Subscribe to insurance for protection in the face of a situation that then does not cover insurance is one of the nightmares that many citizens face when they subscribe to insurance with a mediator or insurance company. This new Insurance Distribution Directive aims to avoid these situations. The Directive reinforces the responsibility of mediators, lays down tougher rules for the sale of insurance, combats inappropriate sales or even misleading sales and imposes mandatory training for the exercise of the activity. The Directive also brings us significant changes in the duty of information and advice to the customer, taking into account its risk and investment profile. in this context, the Directive aims to strengthen consumer protection by improving the quality of information to be provided to consumers. It is also aimed at preventing inappropriate sales situations of insurance products, penalizing potentially more commercial practices. One of the challenges of the Distributor Directive is also related to the remuneration and allocation of incentives, which should not affect the interests of customers. It seems to us that "selling cats by hare" will become more difficult. Despite these positive factors, once again, the government is ill with the deadlines. I do not know whether, because of disgust, if by incompetence, this government, inexplicably, does not meet a single deadline for transposition. It's always late and bad hours, I don't know if it's meant or because of incompetence. These delays, in addition to harming legislative activity, mainly harm consumers who should already be protected. The original date for transposing the Insurance Distribution Directive was 23 February 2018, but the European Commission postponed the deadline for transposition on 1 July with a view to entering into force on 1 October. Despite this delay, however, we are faced with the possibility of failure by the Portuguese State to comply with the procedure for non-compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u37	Doesn't he say anything about the substance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u38	A profound change like this, which will define a new legal framework for insurance distribution activity, lacked public discussion by the main stakeholders of the sector. We hoped that this postponement time would have been used for public discussion, but that did not happen. Still, we're not going to keep the schedule. Although we follow this diploma essentially, we have some doubts that we want to clarify in the specialty, such as the possibility of distributing insurance without counseling; the inequality of conditions for operators who pursue the same activity; and the right of consumers to freely choose the insurance distributor. We are also concerned about the lack of increased bureaucracy and the costs of context, which already weigh a lot on the economic activity and the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u39	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The government is bringing us today the transposition of a directive, already out of time, of course, but this has already become the new « usual» of the government. I would like to start with the principle, reading the explanatory statement of the diploma under discussion: « The XXI Constitutional Government Programme establishes as a priority an effective regulation of the financial markets... » — we agree —... which should go through the control capacity of regulatory entities... » — we also agree —... as well as the allocation of the means necessary for effective supervision. So, good regulation, good supervision—we agree. I begin by asking where is the revision of financial supervision, which the Government has promised years ago. Since you are here in the Assembly of the Republic for years—for years, Mr Secretary of State! — and pending the Government's initiative several projects from various parties on financial supervision and how the various financial supervisors relate, I was careful to go research to try to see if there was any development that had escaped me in the news. And I found a news of September 18, 2017 — we are now on September 28, 2018, it passed about one year and 10 days, where it was announced that the government was going to change financial supervision. The Government makes daily announcements, so I think it is normal for Mr. Secretary of State to forget. And normally it does not do them either — for the government, the new 'normal' is to make announcements that it never does — so I know that this has already become customary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u41	That's not fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u42	But, Mr Secretary of State, I think what would be sensible and reasonable was that Mr. Secretary of State, as the responsible governor, he had begun to give an explanation, saying, after all, where does such a reform of financial supervision work, which, by the way, even strengthened the powers of Mr. Minister of Finance. I do not know whether the Minister needs, because he actually sends the other ministers in general, but in any case he may send the regulators. I don't know if that was the idea, but we'd like to know, until we've been waiting for years and curiosity is increasing as time passes. With regard to this particular transposition, we are all and will agree, I believe, with the aim of consumer protection. What we would like to realize is that new provisions introduced here will have an effect on competition between the various entities selling insurance and how far they can mean a concentration and an increase in the sale of insurance by banks and banking entities. In our view, this will probably not lead to greater consumer protection. On the contrary, it will lead to greater consumer disprotection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u43	With our congratulations, because years ago, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : We are here today discussing the new legal regime of insurance distribution and the new rules governing access to insurance activity and insurance mediation activity. That's what matters to talk about. Insurance professionals accompany this debate and want to know exactly what the news of this bill is. We are talking about a market that has suffered two major impacts: in the late 1990s, with the end of regulated tariffs ; and then with the entry into force of Decree-Law No 144 / 2006, which created new rules for access to this activity. We are talking about a market which, in the late 1970s, close to 1980, had about 50 000 mediators and today has just over 20 000 mediators, meaning that the current insurance mediation market organisation consists of connected insurance mediators, which are divided into two types — 12 400 insurance agents and 70 insurance brokers. In short, the insurance mediation market we currently have, as I said recently, has more than 20,000 mediators, singular and collective, with 7700 being considered related insurance mediators, 12 400 insurance agents and 70 insurance brokers. The new legal regime of the insurance distribution amends the organization of this market by creating three distribution currents, in addition to insurers or insurance undertakings: insurance agents, to whom are now considered to be related insurance mediators; insurance agents and insurance brokers; and a provision which will be designated as « ancillary insurers ». The main objectives of this bill, in the context of the transposition of the Directive, are to improve the effectiveness of regulation and supervision and to strengthen consumer protection and the professionalism of market operators. The main amendments to this bill are the strengthening of information duties to customers, the harmonisation of pre-contractual information, the equivalence of the rules applicable to investment products on the basis of insurance rules for other investment products and the strengthening of sanctions against the bad commercial practices of insurance distributors. The advice scheme provided by insurance distributors is clarified and there are types of information in the marketing of insurance products, the informed sale, the strengthening of counseling, and impartial advice. The content of the pre-contractual information corresponds to a new information document on insurance products, standardized and easy to understand for all products in the "Non-Life" branch. Insurance distributors must implement a remuneration and performance assessment policy that does not conflict with the customer’s interests and must ensure and demonstrate authority and supervision. In addition, persons directly involved in the insurance distribution activity need to have adequate knowledge and skills for the provision of information to customers, establishing the 15-hour frequency requirement of professional training in an entity recognised by the Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u45	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u46	In conclusion, Mr President, this bill, in the view of the Socialist Party, responds to the new challenges of the insurance, reinsurance and pension funds sector. It is a matter for all citizens and businesses. The PS is available to discuss proposals that pursue the three main objectives of this bill: to strengthen regulation and supervision, to protect the consumer further and to further professionalise the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As the Secretary of State has said, this is a diploma which, like others, regulates and evens the marketing of insurance products in this case. It is a sector in which it is important to intervene, since perhaps because it has not been in the ‘eye of the hurricane’ during the crisis, it has taken very little attention, despite having very high levels of risk and there is a great disagreement between what people think is a safe product and what is actually, that is, it is often an investment product and often at high levels of risk. What I think we should be careful is that there is a difference. The Secretary of State often says that these diplomas, which come to protect customers, guarantee the stability of the financial system. We do not agree with this analysis. One thing is to protect customers, another thing is to guarantee the stability of the financial system — sometimes they play but are not necessarily equivalent. I would also like to reinforce here the strangeness expressed by Mrs Cecilia Meireles regarding the delay we have in discussing the new institutional design of the regulatory and financial supervision system. It is that we have detected several failures in these systems, we have even different opinions about them, we have detected problems in the articulation between supervisory entities, having given the Left Block its contribution with possibilities for improvement of the same system, but this discussion is very late and it would be good that it could be restarted briefly, until, as mentioned, there are projects of the various parties awaiting discussion here, in the Assembly of the Republic. By returning to this particular diploma, it has a positive side, of course, which is the strengthening of the sanctioning framework, the strengthening of information duties, the protection of customers, but again we think that it does not protect or guarantee financial stability, until it falls within a larger objective, which is the creation of a single market of capital at European level, which, for us, is the opposite of financial stability, because, on the one hand, it will increase levels of concentration, as has already been said — it is a risk of this diploma, that it is a risk of increasing levels of concentration, rather than because small entities do not withstand the levels of bureaucracy that are being introduced in this diploma — and, on the other hand, a market at European level with very concentrated entities and in small numbers is, of course, less stable and with much higher systemic risk, with higher levels of transfer of this risk. We will examine this diploma in the specialty, but we would like to leave these concerns, in particular with the risks of market concentration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u49	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor to close the debate, Mr Under-Secretary-General and Finance. Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance — Mr President, Members: I shall refer to the two issues which have been raised by virtually all parliamentary groups, and I shall first of all refer to the issue of bureaucracy and the concentration which may involve. Obviously there is a binomy and there is a choice to make between more bureaucracy, and this bureaucracy embodies the need for more information in order to regulate the market, and the costs that this information imposes. What is important, and it is up to us all, including VV. For example, when discussing the specialty, identifying the requirements that do not translate into increasing safety and information necessary for supervision and detection of inappropriate practices, it is to eliminate the provisions if they are perceived as superfluous and therefore inefficient from the point of view of improving the quality of information. With regard to the reform of financial supervision, that is not the issue, but we are working on it. It is later than we would like, but we believe that we will soon have a proposal to put forward. Finally, in relation to the transposition deadlines, there was a load detected, also obviously, by VV. For example, a set of diplomas that changed the regulation in the three sectors, in the insurance sector, in the bank and in the financial markets. I think it has been hard work, which we have done together—and I thank what has been done in this House for good legislation—even if it is later than we would like. However, we have drawn up diplomas that improve the quality of supervision, distribution and sale of financial products. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u50	We move on to the next point in our agenda, which is that of the general discussion of the Bill No 139 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Counter-Terrorism Act, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541. To present the diploma, you have the floor of Ms. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this legislative initiative, the Government shall submit to the Assembly a proposal for an amendment to Law No 52 / 2003, transposing to the national legal order Directive ( EU ) No 2017 / 541, of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against terrorism. This Directive essentially aims at the repression of so-called ‘foreign terrorist combatants’, a reality which covers a number of national persons of the Union States, who have moved to areas of confrontation and return to Europe. The prospect that we have, in particular, in accordance with the relatively recent reports of Interpol, is that, although there are not many people and although the number of returning combatants is small, the fact is that they do have today — not only the international contacts they have obtained, but also the training they have developed — greater capacity to carry out attacks on European territory and even, possibly, large-scale attacks with great impact. Much of the provisions of the Directive are already transposed into the Portuguese legal order, but with regard to Law No 52 / 2003 of 23 August it is found that there is no strict delimitation of the legal type providing for the receipt of training for terrorism, even if it is self-trained, in the European area or abroad. It is in this perspective that we propose amendments to Article 4 ( 7 ) and ( 10 ). or this Law, expressly including the receipt of training for terrorism. in another dimension, we seek to incorporate into our internal legal system a recommendation from the Financial Action Group ( FATF ) and also two recommendations from the United Nations Security Council on the financing of terrorism. Essentially, the GAFI's recommendation points out the obligation of countries to criminalize the financing of terrorism, not only the financing of terrorist acts but also the financing of terrorist organizations, even in the absence of any connection with a particular terrorist act. As a result, we propose an amendment to the Law by introducing Article 5. o -A, which will consider as financing terrorism the means made available to terrorist organizations or individual agents even if they may be used for activities other than, specifically, for the practice of acts of terrorism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u52	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u53	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government brings us a bill that basically involves two amendments to the current Counter-Terrorism Act. The first of these amendments is, as has been said, the criminalization of receiving training and the second concerns criminalization not only of financing terrorist acts but also of terrorist organizations, regardless of the practical practice of terrorist acts. However, I believe that this second amendment raises enormous concerns, to the extent that there is a margin of subjectivity here which is, in our view, dangerous. See the following: The Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO ) was considered, as it is well known, a terrorist organization. Therefore, what this Law can allow is that funding, whatever form of funding it is, from an organization such as the PLO can be classified as a crime. However, we do not believe that this could be in the minds of those who intend to prevent terrorism, but indeed the objective result can be dangerously that. Mr. Minister, who specifically defines what is a terrorist organization? Who defines and who removes the definition? We well know that, and back to the same example, the PLO has been classified by some as 'terrorist organization' and that they have stopped classifying it this way. And those who say this say, for example, another thing: Nelson Mandela himself, who was, at some point, classified by the most powerful official powers in the world, as a « terrorist actor», obviously left being. So how can you accept that there is a criminalization here, with such a wide margin of subjectivity? Where is the catalogue of terrorist organizations? What legitimacy is it that a catalogue of terrorist organizations has, knowing that this same catalogue is subject to changes as light as those that predominated in the international scene? They will say to me: « There is a catalogue, there is». For it is, but this catalogue itself is subject to political changes very often and, therefore, Mrs Minister, the risk is great for us. The criminalization of concrete acts is clearly perceived and accepted, and we accept the criminalization of terrorist acts, but as regards this type of criminalization we deserve the greatest reservations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u54	Mr Marques Guedes, from the PSD, spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u55	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : Regardless of what I said before, the Minister well knows, and also the Portuguese, that there is a broad national consensus, which is quite broad even with regard to the fight against terrorism. Therefore, my first note cannot fail to convey any misunderstanding regarding the delay in transposition of this Directive. We are already out of date and there is absolutely no reason why the Government, in matters of both relevance and the fight against terrorism, has been slow to send to the Assembly of the Republic the transposition of this Directive. It is true that, as the Minister pointed out in her initial speech, the generality of the contents of this Community Directive is, well, adequately safeguarded in national legislation. I can say that national legislation to combat terrorism, in this regard, has been a state-of-the-art legislation in terms of good practice and international understanding, moreover, in an effort, which is an international effort to combat terrorism, given the typology of this same phenomenon, which is also international or at least transnational. As the Minister pointed out, in addition to point-to-point aspects of national legislation, there is, in fact, an innovation—I would say until that innovation is not as small as this— which has to do with the amendment of the matter relating to the financing of terrorism. We well know that one of the alibis used not to pursue who finances and sponsors terrorism at national or international level has been that of some ignorance or any doubt as to whether a particular type of organization is terrorist or not. It is clear that legislation already has mechanisms, this Law itself has mechanisms for defining what must be understood by « terrorist organisations ». But, Madam Minister, what is not understood from our point of view is that the transposition by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic with regard to the amendment to Article 5. o -A, on the financing of terrorism, is incomplete. As the Minister may verify, considering what is in the directive on the financing of terrorism, it is not only violent terrorist acts or knowledge of the practice of violent terrorist acts, but also incitement through social networks and recruitment of young people for terrorist activity. The financing of this type of activity must also be penalized. in this sense, I would like to believe that the Government, by maintaining this consensus, in the discussion on the speciality of the diploma, can support the proposed amendments that the Social Democratic Party will present on this matter, in order to ensure a complete transposition of the Directive and for Portugal to remain at the forefront of the fight, in legislative terms and legal instruments of persecution, to this scourge that is terrorism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u56	Now Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u57	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Government today brings to Parliament a bill that expands the limits of punitive action against terrorism. We are therefore talking about defending the democratic rule of law, so we are talking about cross-border crime, so we are talking about defending the international community itself. We must bear in mind that the phenomenon of terrorism is a phenomenon which has known, in addition to a notorious increase, several developments, particularly now, with the backwardness of the Islamic State, with the return to the danger of non-State actors, in particular of the terrorist networks and of the terrorists individually considered, with the emergence of the so-called'solitary wolves' and the spread of danger in the European area. It is therefore important to make legislative harmonisation so that no country can be considered, even if in any case, in an episode, a sanctuary for legislative omission. So there is the Government of Congratulations on this proposal. The European Union, in this case, is and we always wanted it to be an area of security, justice and freedom and it is precisely within the framework of the defence of these values that this proposal cannot fail to be considered. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be perfectly aware, in the weighting of the values to be considered — some have been placed here — how important is the security and success in combating terrorism for the health of our democracies. Security is a factor of freedom and it is not only in the obvious interpretation of someone who feels safe only if he feels free and unconditional in his freedom of movement, not restricted to spaces that assess as safe, in contrast to those at risk, but above all because, as some studies show, there is a psychological predisposition of individuals to intolerance when they perceive an increase in levels of threat. Terrorism, because of the insecurity it causes, makes our societies more permeable to intolerance, so it is a fragile factor of democracies. With this proposal for a law, there is a neo-criminalization and broadening the limits of the punitiveness of terrorism, there is obviously, as I said, and the Minister also mentioned it, the criminalization and criminalization of foreign terrorist combatants who leave and return to the European Union with training acquired in the meantime. As the Law itself points out, the criminal offence is defined as the act of receiving training for terrorism, complementing the infringement of training, which was already prescribed, specifically avoiding threats from persons actively preparing to commit terrorist offences. It also expands the concept of financing terrorism, now punishing not only the financing of acts of terrorism but also those for which, although not directly related to those acts, there is a sense that they are related — as Mr Marques Guedes has rightly pointed out — to the financing of terrorism, a tax typification or a history of money laundering. There is direct competition here in the changes in the legal types between the crime of specific debt, which is the receipt of training with the intention of committing crimes, and at the same time the crime of generic or even abstract danger, which is precisely in the financing of these situations. In short, the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this proposal, because it believes that it is a decisive step in the defence of our democracies, and is, of course, available to, in the field of specialty, even if it does not follow all of Mr Marques Guedes' comments, to consider the improvements to be increased. Parliament as a whole stands to ensure that this law is a good law, that is the best law possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u58	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members : I would like to make a few comments on this bill. The first point concerns the first of the standards we are considering, the criminalization of training for the pursuit of terrorist activities. We have nothing against, of course, although it seems to us that a sort of parallel legal order is being created within the European Union, i.e. a legal order is being created to penalise a number of crimes, the most diverse, against people, etc. and then a separate legal order is created, with a certain mark of terrorism. I wonder if what is planned here for terrorism does not apply to other forms of crime. Of course it is! Legislation penalises training, instruction or knowledge on the manufacture or use of explosives, firearms or other weapons and harmful or dangerous substances. Well, I ask: if these activities are developed not for so-called "terrorist activities" but, for example, to burst with multibank boxes, are they not penalized? Of course they are! Therefore, I believe that it begins to create a kind of brand specifically related to terrorism when, in relation to this type of activity, there obviously has to be punishment regarding terrorism, but also criminal activities, which are also socially harmful. But, of course, we do not object to those who provide training for the practice of terrorist activities being penalized. The other question refers to another problem, that of financing. We have supported legislative initiatives aimed at combating the financing of terrorism and other illegal activities. The fight against money laundering has to do not only with the possibility of financing terrorist organisations, but also with the financing of other criminal activities, as is clear. And what I said earlier also applies in this case. On the other hand, the final part, the last provision that is proposed — and Mr. José Manuel Pureza recently drew attention to this point — brings us to another problem, that of the labels, that is, who the European Union believes has the title of terrorist organization. And we know that labels vary over time. More: we also know that there is a huge duality of criteria at European Union level about who is terrorist and who is not. It is enough that the European Union assigns the ‘moderate’ label to terrorist organisations that commit the greatest atrocities — and Syria gives us blatant examples of this itself — and then, no longer terrorist organisations, they are moderate organisations, which the European Union supports financially and mediatically in their campaigns and which also train us to commit terrorist attacks in Europe. I wonder if organisations such as the so-called Front Al-Nusra, which has, and has, the support of the European Union to fight in Syria, to fight the Syrian people, are also considered terrorist organizations. They are certainly not for the European Union, because they support it by all means.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u60	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u61	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that, of course, it was important for a legislative armament to combat terrorism, but it was also important that there should not be a scandalous duality of criteria on the part of the European Union and its States as regards those who are terrorists and those who are not, because they are — pass the expression — the 'our' terrorists. It was important to end this duality of criteria. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u62	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u63	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: First of all, I would like to express our generic agreement with the objective and transposition of this Directive. In fact, as has been said during the discussion, this transposition aims and essentially has as its intention two fundamental ideas. First of all, the criminalization of what is related to terrorism — Mr Marques Guedes has clearly explained here — that is, whatever recruitment, training, preparation, criminalization that is fundamental today because we know more and more that many of the acts of terrorism are practised by people who, often outside the context of the European Union, receive training, receive training and then return to the country of origin, where obviously they become a threat. Secondly, the fundamental idea that the best way to fight terrorism, the best way to « kill the snake», so to speak, must be in the egg. And the egg of that same snake is its financing, as it is obvious and for obvious reasons. It is therefore attacking funding, attacking the resources that enable the preparation of terrorists, the armaments, their training and their capacity for action that we will have the best way to combat terrorism. So our agreement is, of course, generic and on that we have no great doubts. At a very long time, we would raise an issue which has already been mentioned, that of delay in transposition of this Directive, and not any other one on this matter. The only arguments, which we have heard here, against this idea, do not seem to me to be just something curious as fallacious. Why? We can say that there is a certain organization that, over a period of time, was considered a terrorist organization, which has committed acts that were considered, at the time, of the greatest gravity, from the deviation of planes to others, as we know, and that, from a certain point of view, comes out of this catalogue, gains even, and well, dimension and state dignity. That is not what is at stake, but does this serve as an argument that we will not then fight the financing of all other organizations? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u64	It's not about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u65	Is that legitimate, or not, Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u66	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u67	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why I do not accept this idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u68	That's not it! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u69	The conclusion of its principle is that the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda, i.e. all those who are, indisputably, terrorist organizations and who threaten the security of Europe every day cannot have an effective fight against its financing, because you have doubts about one or another organization.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u70	And the collateral victims don't count? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer enter into the close relations between Portuguese organisations that are hosting in their annual events undoubtedly terrorist organisations. I'm not even going in there, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u72	You don't even have anywhere to go!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u73	But I am telling you one thing: the debate that you are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's another! The debate that you are discussing. Members would like — and Mr António Filipe, to accept your debate on these terms: I think that we should discuss whether this...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u74	You're not going in there, you don't even have anywhere to go!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u75	What about the help you have from Donald Trump? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I really understand why you have these initiatives: it is that in a democratic spirit they have very little and ability to listen to others...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u77	Pay attention to the time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u78	Mr. President, I'm trying, but I can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u79	But a little while ago he'd been out of time. Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u80	Mr President, if you will guarantee me 15 seconds without Mr. Ladies and gentlemen will be interrupting me, I conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u81	Of course. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u82	Mr António Filipe, I admit that this discussion makes sense. The honourable Member may say that a particular organization should not be on the list and that another one should be on the list. But this is another discussion. This is resolved in the formation of the list, it is not resolved in a general norm to combat the financing of terrorism. In fact, this discussion is legitimate, whether on one side or on the other; whether you think it should be, or what you think it should not be. But this is another discussion! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u83	Madam Minister, I am taking advantage of warning about other matters which, not even from the direct reach of the Minister, the Government should pay more attention, such as critical infrastructures, airports, subjects which the Government has long known and which it has not yet responded to. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u84	In order to close the debate, I have once again the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At present, the European space is an area of freedom, an area of security and an area of justice. I realize that it is not always easy to establish the balance between justice and security, especially in contexts like the current one, in which the terrorist threat ends up generating an idea of a completely diffuse enemy, a diffuse evil which creates in people fear and a great concern and which often leads to reacting to the flower of the skin. But it is obvious that parliaments and organizations exist for this. The European Council has a list of entities and persons considered to be terrorists, by reference to terrorist activities, and I must say that, despite everything, I have more hope, more confidence, in the capacity and internal democratity of these institutions in terms of the distinctions they make, which are normally supported by reports, in particular Europol and other international bodies that are engaged in combating crime. I would also like to say that this difficulty is great, and that is why we need to have the utmost rigour in the delimitation of legal types in order to avoid empty criminal standards, in order to avoid spaces of hyperpunition. That is why the rule of Article 5. o -A has that formulation. I am convinced that today in Law No 52 / 2003 we already have the criminalization of all the matters which Mr Marques Guedes mentioned. But it's a matter of checking. I was asking you to do this to me, because the conviction I have is that, indeed, it's all there. But let's see if it is or not. Obviously, there is a problem of compliance or failure to comply with the Directive and we want to fully comply with it. Finally, I would like to say that this Directive was adopted on 15 March 2017 and therefore, in spite of everything, the delay that you are delaying. Members speak is more rhetorical than real. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u86	Mrs. Members, concluded the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 139 / XIII / 3. a, we say goodbye to the Mrs. Members of the Government and we are moving forward to the general discussion of Bill No. 979 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism for combating wage inequality. To present the legislative initiative, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is the fourth country in the European Union with the greatest wage inequality. The trend is, in fact, worrying. This wage inequality has not stopped growing in Portugal and throughout the world. In the United Kingdom, it tripled over the last two decades. In Portugal, over the past three years the cost of work has been stagnated, but managers' salaries have increased by 40 %. Is there any justification for this reality? There isn't! The low wages of those who work and the supersonic wages of managers have no relation to the performance of companies, neither from the point of view of their operational results, nor in terms of their listing on the Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u89	But this inequality is not neutral for the functioning of societies; it is negative for society, it is detrimental to the economy and the efficiency of the economy itself. Clearly, there is no isolated measure alone that ends wage inequality. We need tax measures on income and on wealth; we need public policies, public services, capable of redistributing wealth; we need collective bargaining, ending with expiry that prevents balanced negotiation and has been crushing the union movement. But states, as a regulatory body of the economy, can and should do more. That is why the definition of wage leques is a debate that is at the forefront of the world. There are a number of countries that have been discussing this issue. In Switzerland there was a referendum that discussed the proposal to establish a maximum range of 1 to 12. No one can win in the same company in one month more than a worker in that company earns in one year. In France, there was a similar proposal, discussed in April 2016 and which led by a vote in the French Parliament establishing a ratio of 1 to 20. No one in the same company can earn 20 times as much as the lower salary of this company. These proposals are under discussion in England. The Labour programme is part of a proposal similar to that of the Left Block and even the British Conservatives have put this problem in their program. In Portland, in the United States, we have the same reality. This is in fact not only a concern of the Left Block, it is a major concern in society, the trade union movement. The Prime Minister said in August that companies have to radically change their wage structures and the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, spoke of a shocking panorama, in which the managers' orders blatantly clash with the workers' salary. I'd like to give a graphic example. Let's imagine, ladies. Members, who have a manager with an average salary of the managers of large companies, who earn on average EUR 1 million per year. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a poster with the image of a manager almost in real size.]] In Portugal, the average wage difference is this. The speaker joined the previous poster with the Portuguese flag and with the image of a small worker. This is graphically the proportional size between the manager's salary and the average wage of workers: 46 times more! A worker needs a long contribution career to earn the same as a manager earns in a year. But there are more examples. If we go to the CTTs, see the disparity! We need a magnifying glass! The speaker joined the previous posters with the CTT logo, with the image of a worker in smaller size than that of the previous poster and with the image of a magnifying glass. Here is the proportionality of the worker's salary size. It is necessary that the CTT worker,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u90	I ask you to conclude Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u91	... a postman who wins 612 €, works 106 years to win the same as the manager! [[PSD protests.]] And if we are, for example, for Pinko Doce, you don't need a magnifying glass, you need a microscope! The speaker joined the previous posters with the Pingo Doce logo, with the image of a worker even smaller than that of the previous poster and with the image of a microscope. It is that a worker has to work 345 years to earn the 2 900 000 € that the manager of the same company wins in one year! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u92	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u93	It's with this inequality that needs to end! It's about her that we need to intervene! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for my part, I have the greatest doubts about the reasonableness of the display of elements that are not strictly informative... [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u95	...in graphic terms, in the debate of the plenary. But it is not for me individually to decide this matter. I believe that it should be considered at the Leaders' Conference. Having said that, the Bureau does not record any entries for speeches so that we can continue the debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, the presidents of the board of directors of the companies of the PSI 20 earned, on average, 46 times more than the average cost that these companies took with the workers. That is, a worker would be forced to work 46 years to gain the value that a president of the board of directors of that company gains in one year. In 2015, this difference was 33 times, currently is 46 times and will have been the Jerónimo Martins Group decisive in this increase. António Mexia receives 39 times more than the average cost of EDP with each worker. But if we compare with the salary of the workers of the call center of EDP, subcontracted through temporary work enterprises, Antonio Mexia receives more than 200 times than these workers, and the EDP Administration, by 2018, proposed an increase of 0, 6 % in wages for workers. However, the net results of the EDP group amounted to more than EUR 7 billion, of which EUR 3300 million were distributed by shareholders and, almost entirely, left the country. It is also important to address this problem, because this situation is scandalous. This obliges us to look there at these demanding wage differences and to conclude that the main difference is between capital and work. In Portugal, 1% of the population has 25% of the national wealth and 5% of the population accumulates almost 50% of the national wealth. These data show injustice in the distribution of wealth and its process of concentration promoted by successive governments, with very serious consequences for employment. It is decisive to distribute more fairly the wealth created in the country. The proposal currently under discussion denounces a problem, but does not point to an effective solution. So much so that it refers to the government the definition of leques. On this project, the CFP will vote in favour of signaling the problem, but important questions are asked: how can we ensure the application of the reduction of wage leques, for example, to social communication groups, to the football sector, among others? How to ensure application in multinational companies based outside the country that can, in addition to paying in Portugal, pay wages to the same managers from another country? For the CFP, the central issue is to ensure that the reduction in wage flows results in the actual increase in wages of all workers, starting with those who earn lower wages and not that the reduction in wage income results in a fiction that the remuneration of managers is reduced, while the wages of workers are unharmed, with the injustice that this entails. Exactly for this reason, the priority of the CFP is that of the general increase in wages for all workers, the Public and Private Administration, being central to the increase of the national minimum wage to 650 €, already in January 2019. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u97	Mr Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, in full act of contrition, wanting to clear itself, of course, the Robles case,... [[BE's laughs.]] ... presents us here a miraculous solution to solve wage disparities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u99	Go back to the conversation of Germany that is better!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u100	...a solution, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one had thought of it yet. See only: to define wage ceilings for top managers. [[BE's protests.]] This is an exercise of bisbilotics and interference in the lives of private companies, which, in fact, is said to be perfectly consistent with the Stalinist and totalitarian vision they have of society.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u101	All right! [[EB's laughs and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u102	First of all, you ignore social consultation at all times. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that social dialogue is a privileged space for dialogue and social commitment that generates more consistent balances in society, and you have the pride of coming here to think that they are owners of magical solutions to solve these wage disparities, but do not deserve to discuss them with the social partners. [[PSD applause.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they support your bill with the companies of the PSI 20, which are only 20, and that you know that they act internationally and that they are top companies with a large volume of business, investment promoters and greater wealth generators.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u103	That was strong!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u104	This isn't serious either, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u106	And it is not serious because it does not even represent our business fabric which, in its large majority, consists of small and medium-sized enterprises, family companies in which such disparities do not even occur because managers do not take these values from far or near.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u108	Did you talk to Rui Rio? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u109	What, then, is the solution that you present here? It's simple! You tell these companies that you have very well demonstrated the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u110	You've demonstrated so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u111	... "Go away. Dislocalize your headquarters in Portugal. They pay taxes outside Portugal, because we only want to stay with companies that do not have a gap of wage disparities between managers and workers », although they are less productive and less wealth-generating! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't care about anything. What really matters is to reduce the wage gap and, therefore, nothing better than inviting companies that are richer and offer more jobs to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u112	For God's sake! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u113	So your simplistic solution is: "Let's end companies"! [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u114	They even make the businessmen ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is leveling down.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u116	My lady!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u117	You defend a society where you cannot aspire to be rich and we believe that wage inequalities are fighting the rise of lower incomes and not with limits on higher earnings. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u118	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u119	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I just wanted to say that here is a recurring practice of the Socialist Party, which is to remember only social consultation when it does not want to make decisions and when it does not want to be pregnant. So he has already publicly argued that these matters should go to social consultation. We agree, they should. But, Mr President, all labour matters should go to social dialogue and we do not understand, in fact, why we understand why the Socialist Party sometimes refuses and sometimes, when politically convenient, falls into social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can move on to the next item on the agenda, since there is no one on the list. [[Pause.]] Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by saying that the disparity in the distribution of wealth, wage disparity is a problem that concerns the CDS. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u122	And it's not a Portuguese problem, it's a world problem! Now, in relation to a problem of a global and very complex dimension, what the CDS does not accept, however, is demagogy and populist solutions, whether on the left or on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u124	That's for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u125	In fact, radical populists have no solutions, which they do is to explore resentment and to hunt the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u127	That's what the Left Block does with this project. Without social consultation, without hearing partners be on the side of workers, either on the side of employers decides to legislate on this matter. What the Block demonstrates is a tremendous prejudice and the mistrust it has in relation to the private economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u128	Our concern is with inequalities!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u129	In other words, the Block thinks it owns all companies that have more than 10 employees and can decide what these same companies are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u131	More: it believes that all these companies have another declarative obligation, which they already have...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u132	So it's no longer one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u133	... and that is the information that is given to the State services, and they require that the same information be published on the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u134	From the leque!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u135	We're talking about companies with 10 workers, we're talking about making public how much each worker wins. That is what, in practice, means your proposal for companies with 10 workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u136	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u137	So what you want is a real wage striptease,... [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] ...that does not respect, even, the privacy of those who work...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u138	It's Stalinist striptease!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u139	... and from whom you have the right not to see your maturity published on the Internet,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...that does not respect, in fact, what is protected by the Constitution and by the law itself of data protection, because in companies with 10 workers there is no way to prevent one from knowing how much each of these workers earns. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But more than the proposal of the Left Block, we are even more concerned by the Socialist Party, because what it does is run after these initiatives, revealing the radicalization of its parliamentary bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u140	They're Stalinists too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u141	... and that repeats the same mistake made by the Left Block. It is that the principle either of the Block, or of the Socialist Party, is to penalize!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u142	They're Stalinists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u143	Have you considered having a debate about the incentives that can be given to companies to improve the distribution of income? Don't! The only concern you have is to increase the tax and tax burden whether it is on those who work or on businesses. That's why they talk about penalizing via TSU (unique social rate), they don't talk about improving the distribution of wealth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u144	What about CDS inequality policy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u145	They do not talk about increasing Portuguese income,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u146	What does the CDS propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u147	... they talk about penalizing those who win the most!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u149	Therefore, this is a debate that begins to be sent out, that starts wrong and that can only end badly, too. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u150	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The worsening of inequalities and the way wage disparities contribute to this worsening of inequalities is one of the most important issues in our life as a society. This is, in fact, a matter particularly for Socialist Youth, which was the first political organization in our country to take a public position on it and to propose concrete measures for its resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not because we want to lower the wages of the people who earn the most, but because we understand that, if an organization is able to generate wealth, it must be distributed in a minimally balanced way among all people who, with their work, contribute to the generation of that same wealth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, the Socialist Party has entered this House, already this week, a proposal which unfortunately cannot be discussed today by Regimental issues and which makes the Socialist Party today have a definite position on this issue in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u152	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u153	What the Socialist Party argues is that there are wage disparities that are excessive, unjustified and that, contrary to what the right defends, it is up to the State to regulate and mitigate them, because it is up to the State to intervene in all the injustices and immorality that exist in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u154	It's Stalinism!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u155	The State can and should therefore intervene in private companies, in private and public organisations in order to resolve these situations of injustice. We know, and we do not ignore, that this is a matter of special complexity. The Left Block also knows and recognises it - in its project - indeed, Mrs Rita Rato of the Portuguese Communist Party, already mentioned it today. Therefore, what we understand, and as it is expressed in our proposal, is that legislation on this matter must be in the process of beginning in social dialogue and then being in this House. Not because we do not want to legislate on this matter, but because, as approved at the National Congress of the Socialist Party, it is also up to the social partners to do this discussion and to seek the best alternatives to legislate on how we can reduce wage disparities in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u157	That is why our proposal, which will soon be discussed, sent the Government, because the Assembly of the Republic does not have a seat in social dialogue, so that, in social dialogue, this debate may take place. This is so that we can seriously adopt legislation that is balanced, efficient and that enables us to reach the one who is the common objective and which I have heard today that can be consensual within this House: to legislate in order to reduce the wage disparities in our country which, in many cases, are unfair and highly immoral. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u158	To close the debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u159	To present more graphics!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Wages relate not only to the wages of managers, but to the inequality of the distribution of wealth within a company.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u161	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u162	It is the question of knowing how many poor workers are needed within a company to make a manager with supersonic wages. That's what we're dealing with. Mr. PSD's deputy says this is a bisbilotic and the CDS is talking about striptease. Mr. Members, this salary disclosure rule is mandatory by law for the companies of the PSI-20 and the Assembly of the Republic has approved a diploma on gender pay inequality which obliges companies to disclose the data of the wage difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u164	As for the phantom of relocation, the claim that CTTs, where the administrator wins 106 times more than the mailman, will relocate and distribute the mail to China if there is a pay gap is absurd. Mr Socialist Party Member, if you agree with the principle and if there is a consensus in this Parliament, then what we hope is that the Socialist Party will not impermiss this project of the Left Block, because the idea of social consultation is just an excuse. [[PS protests.]] The Left Block project says it's the government that's going to fix the pay gap. The project of the Left Block establishes a principle and assigns to the Government the mission, the capacity and the competence to fix this pay gap, which means that the Government can do so by using the method to understand and dialogue with whom it understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u166	Therefore, Mr. Member, the argument of social consultation is only an exorbitant excuse or, then, the Socialist Party's draft resolution is a biombo for nothing to happen, because we know what the Socialist Party's recommendations to the Government are. Three years ago they recommended that the Government create the status of the caregiver. We have been waiting for a study report to be made for two years and at the end of two years this report said that further study was needed. It was necessary for the Left Block to schedule a bill on caregivers to start solving this issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is this a problem or not? Should there be or should there be no limit to wage inequality? Do we or do we not want to fight wage inequality? The honourable Members who answer 'yes' vote in favour, those who answer 'no' vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u167	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u168	But they have to explain not to the Left Block, but to the workers of these companies, with such offensive distributions of wealth, and to the country, which does not understand this indecent inequality from the point of view of wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u169	Mrs. Members, we turn to agenda item five, from the initiative of the CDS-PP, which is part of the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1318 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of grants and support for paralympic athletes equal to Olympic athletes 1795 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a scheme that allows the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes with regard to the allocation of support and scholarships and 1797 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government compare Olympic and Paralympic athletes at levels two and three. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS promoted this schedule in the week when the Paralympic Committee of Portugal celebrates 10 years. It took place this week in a ceremony with the presence of virtually all parliamentary groups of the Assembly of the Republic — and also of the Government — and the moment of doing so is a symbolic moment, but it is not a single moment, much less exclusive. I think it is very important to leave these very clear points in a debate like this at first. A cause like paralympic sport never has owners or is never finished. So we all together today, here, can take another step in valuing this dimension of sport and life in society in Portugal. We will not solve all the problems and the CDS, which was the author of the scheduling initiative, is not here to shake flags, saying that we are the best, the first or the most effective. The recognition of the importance of paralympic sport has many dimensions. It certainly has an equality dimension, very much mentioned, and in the history of the 10 years of the Paralympic Committee of Portugal it is natural that the dimension of equality has been the first of all struggles. It also has a dimension of overrun, which is relevant in each individual project of each of the athletes that make up this Committee and in each of its modalities. It also has a dimension which is very important for us to note and which, fortunately, today, more and more, is the one that has the greatest expression: the dimension of excellence. Paralympic athletes must be recognized because they are very good. That is how society should look at these athletes. in the same way that recognizes those who are very good in many other areas, society should look at these athletes for the results they achieve, for their capacity to overcome records on records, for their ability to win medals or to overcome themselves. All of this is a reason for the recognition of this excellence. That is why the slogan adopted recently by the Paralympic Committee of Portugal is very important and must be present in this debate. This slogan is « No penalty». And it is a shame that we should look at this cause—without prejudice, without diminishing, without having in any way a different way of looking at one reality and looking at another. How can this be conveyed in what we are discussing today? Equipping, once and for all, support for paralympic athletes and Olympic athletes. There are reasons why Olympics are different for each other, that is obvious, but there is no reason to make support for athletes participating in one or the other have to be different. For this reason, there were parties, whose initiatives are under discussion here, who presented proposals in the State Budget and who at the time the CDS accompanied and there were others who followed afterwards. The government, after the discussion of the State budget, has also moved forward and has taken steps to ensure, for example, that some of the projects that present on some matters are already over, and that is a good sign and is positive. What we want to say is that Parliament has an excellent opportunity to celebrate 10 years in the week when the Paralympic Committee of Portugal is celebrating, not to be sorry, but to be grateful for excellence and indeed to be able to take more steps in this equation, which is an equalizing of justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u171	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Both the constitutional dictates and the diploma that defines the general basis of the legal regime of prevention, empowerment, rehabilitation and participation of the disabled person establish that it is up to the State to adopt specific and necessary measures to ensure the practice of high-competitive sport by persons with disabilities through the creation of appropriate structures and forms of social support. Since 1972, Portuguese paralympic athletes have made worthy campaigns, threatening an aggregate of 92 medals. The annual value allocated to Olympic athletes is around €30,000, while the amount available to Paralympic athletes is €8750, which represents an unjustified difference. One of the paralympic values corresponds to equality, in the sense of the paralympic athletes may feel equal through the reception of undifferentiated and indiscriminate treatment, something that appears unattainable to the departure due to the disparity of the support and scholarships assigned, when comparing the Olympic and Paralympic athletes. Such disparity will have obvious reflections in these athletes' daily lives, as well as in preparing for the competition. In the implementation of an increasingly equal and just society, we believe that it is necessary to create a regime that will enable the pairing and recognition of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes with regard to the allocation of support and scholarships.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u173	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am pleased to inform the House that it is in the gallery of the diplomatic corps, accompanied by our President of the Assembly of the Republic, and integrating his delegation, Mr President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, whom we welcome. [[General applause, stand up.]] We will continue the debate, giving the floor to Mr. Jorge Falcato to present the draft resolution of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last year, we tabled a proposal to end the discrimination to which they were and are still subject to paralympic athletes. With the vote against the Socialist Party and the abstention of the PSD, injustice remained. But the proposal we have put forward has not ceased to be useful: giving visibility to the demands of the paralympic athletes and the Paralympic Committee, has contributed to some path. In January, the programme contract was finally signed in which the Paralympic Committee, with the money made available by the Government, was able to initiate a convergence between the values of the scholarships to which Paralympic athletes are entitled with the values that the Olympic athletes receive. But the money made available only reached the convergence of level one athletes. Those who are at levels two and three will reach 2021 and will continue to receive less than their Olympic colleagues. Comparing with the 2014 Olympic Programme Contract, the second-level paralympic athletes would receive, at the end of the convergence, less than €69 and the third-level less € 295 monthly. This inequality is not admissible in the light of anti-discrimination legislation and clearly violates the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is not just we who say so, that it is also the Ombudsman who, following a complaint about discrimination by the Athletes Committee, said that the current differentiation can set up a situation of discrimination on the basis of disability and violate the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. After consulting with Ms. Provedore, the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport reported that the recent Comprehensive Paralympic Preparation Agreement provides for the convergence in the 2018-2021 cycle of the Olympic and Paralympic universe conditions, in particular as regards the scholarships and the funds made available for sports preparation. For this is what we are presenting here, a convergence which covers all the paralympic athletes, which, contrary to what Mr. Secretary of State said, does not occur in the said Programme Agreement. To be consistent with the statement you have made, you will have the Secretary of State to strengthen the funds provided for in the Programme Agreement and, as important as it is, to draw up legislation in which the match between athletes representing Portugal is clear at the highest level, not only at the level of the scholarships, but also at the level of the funds for preparation and sporting participation. In the press release, Ms. Ombudsman welcomed the Government's intention to achieve a total equality — I repeat, total — in support of the Olympic and Paralympic universes. The athletes, who we use to greet, expect nothing less than that. Let us not frustrate that expectation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a proposal from the CFP, it was envisaged in the State budget that the prizes awarded to Paralympic athletes should be equalised to the prizes awarded to Olympic athletes, ending a situation of discrimination and exclusion, fulfilling constitutional principles and principles expressed in a set of national and international legal instruments and properly valuing what is the participation of these athletes in a set of European and world competitions, as well as in the Paralympic Games, that the recent participation in the European Championship of Athletics in Berlin is indeed an example. This proposal from the CFP opened doors for the elimination of inequalities and if it made a path of valuing paralympic sport, also in this respect. The important sporting performance of paralympic athletes in various European and world trials and championships and also in the Paralympic Games results in a strong determination and perseverance in sports practice at the highest level, which is built in the daily work of these athletes, in the associative structures, trainers, as well as in the support of the families of these athletes who, by overcoming various obstacles, make possible the presence of Portugal in various sporting events. In this regard, it is also important to bring to mind the reality of the practice of adapted sport. Equalization of prizes and scholarships of paralympic athletes to the Olympics does not inhibit or hide the need to guarantee conditions for the sport practice of people with disabilities, men and women, children, young people and adults in their various spheres — education, recreation, therapy and also competitive. And when we talk about the guarantee of these conditions, we talk about a real commitment and another attitude of public entities in support of high-performance athletes and their sports structures; we talk about the need to listen to athletes, their representative structures and associations and representative organisations; we talk about the need to ensure basic conditions of support by public entities, including the creation and strengthening of training and preparation support structures, so that their presence in initiatives at the highest level is made on an equal footing relative to athletes in the various countries where higher investment in adapted sport is recorded; we talk about the need for public schools conditions for the practice of adapted sport so that children and young people with disabilities can fulfil their fundamental rights. Sport is an important factor of healthy and active occupation of free times, of health promotion and well-being, yes, of international affirmation of the country, but also of promoting individual and collective development, social integration and combating exclusion, and its values of solidarity, cooperation and competitive overcoming cannot be forgotten. The constitutional right to sport is for all, and the necessary conditions must be created so that everyone can practice it. This is indeed a responsibility of the State. The CFP is available to contribute to this path, so we will follow the initiatives under discussion in this House so that paralympic participations are properly valued, but also so that access to sport for people with disabilities is a reality in everyday life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u177	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Building a developed country, an inclusive society that respects the equal opportunity of all citizens is a plan that we all have to draw. Equal opportunities in access to employment, education, health, family, happiness and also sport. We all recognize the virtue of sports practice, just as we all must recognize that a righteous State, a righteous country has to ensure that all citizens, regardless of their physical limitations, can have conditions for sport practice, either for competition purposes, for leisure practice or for personal satisfaction. However, it is important to establish justice that the State particularly looks at citizens who have a disability condition, particularly those who are highly competitive athletes. There is no reason why, in a developed society, there is the secondaryization of adapted sports. If we looked in particular at the support of Olympic and Paralympic programmes, we found that the disparity of values that were placed at the disposal of trainers and athletes of these sports universes was perfectly triggered. It will be enough to remember that the adjusted sports preparation funds did not reach 30 % of the Olympics. But fortunately there have been many advances in this area in the last three years of socialist governance. It was the state that wanted to set an example. For the first time, a convergence effort was made between Olympic preparation values and paralympic preparation values. It is therefore proud that in the parallel preparation programme of Tokyo 2020, values will be equated between the Olympic and Paralympic preparation programmes, which will represent an increase in funding by 82 % of the paralympic preparation programme. We therefore consider that the fair balance between the conditions of both the money and the sports preparation of these athletes is guaranteed and that long ago it was a fair and legitimate aspiration of the agents of this paralympic sports universe. But above all, it is guaranteed that civilizational progress, progress in progress, integration and the hope that we will continue to build a society in which everyone has truly equal opportunities. That is why we walk, that is the challenge and that is why we will all converge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u179	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Pedro Pimpão, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a very important time for Portuguese sport. The moment Parliament considers the cause of the paralympic movement in Portugal is a relevant moment because it is through this movement that we are able to promote the social cohesion of our country, inclusion, overcoming and, as stated by my colleagues, the values of equality. In the week when 10 years have been signed by the Paralympic Committee of Portugal, we must begin to greet Mr. President of the Committee, José Manuel Lourenço, and, in his own person, to congratulate and thank the work done over the years in this institution. It has been 10 years of positive affirmation and evolution of the paralympic movement in Portugal, so it is also necessary to give publicly a word of recognition to all athletes, family members, leaders, trainers, technicians of the various specialties, federations and all who have contributed to this positive evolution of the paralympic movement in Portugal. Because it is here, through sport that for people with disabilities what was impossible becomes reality: they gain more self-esteem, more confidence in their abilities, they believe more in themselves. And it all starts with a dream for these young people, who become adults. Each athlete has a dream at the beginning and it is true that they set goals and achieve results, and the paralympics bring medals to Portugal and have been many of the joys these athletes have brought to our country. Therefore, in addition to thanks for the work done so far, it is also important to leave here, in the Assembly of the Republic, a word of encouragement and confidence in the preparation of the games of Tokyo 2020, so that the Paralympics can achieve their goals, which are our objectives, and that they always maintain as the main matrix honoring the sweater of Portugal and demonstrate to the world all the enormous sports potential that exists in our country. This is what Paralympic athletes have done in their international participations: they honor Portugal and show that we all have the opportunity to be happy. That is why, in the context of the diplomas currently under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group is in favour of strengthening the appreciation of the paralympic movement and, on behalf of the principle of equal opportunities, we believe that the paralympic athletes should not be discriminated against in terms of support and therefore we also defend the right to equality. The values of the bags and sports prizes of the paralympic athletes shall be equal to those of the Olympic athletes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u182	Because we are talking about a collective project that goes far beyond the exclusive sports dimension, because it considers as the ultimate end the inclusion of people with disabilities in Portugal, Mr. President, would like to leave a thank you: thanks to all those who have kept the flame of the paralympic movement alive in Portugal, thank you for what they do for our country! [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u183	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr João Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Telegraphically, to close this debate, my intervention goes in exactly the same direction as I open it, because the debate confirmed what was supposed to be, i.e. that all parliamentary groups obviously share the same spirit in this matter and, being a member of an opposition party makes sense - I must add that we also have confidence that the government also has and that, therefore, these recommendations, not always, will be respected by the government and will be fulfilled what is in them. I take this opportunity to remember that this effort to support the paralympic movement cannot be left only by the scholarships. We still have much work to do in removing obstacles to the growth of the paralympic movement. On the contrary, we are not indifferent to the difficulty of recruiting athletes, because we know well that in order for a paralympic athlete to have a sports project it is necessary that his life project is compatible with this project and often, for reasons of mobility, for professional reasons, for academic reasons, this does not happen. So if we can win this battle, which, in the name of the Paralympic athletes, do not stay here and we can also win the next one. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u185	We move on to point 6 of the agenda, of which is the general discussion of the Bill No. 956 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Promotion and development of ecotourism, together with the Draft Resolution No 1695 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the possibility of creating mechanisms to encourage the implementation of Astrotourism projects in the regions of the interior of Portugal. To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a bill aimed at promoting and developing ecotourism in Portugal. When we talk about promoting ecotourism, we talk about a sustainable tourism policy that adds an environmental, social and economic component. Ecotourism necessarily involves maintaining the landscape characteristic of the sites as well as preserving basic natural ecosystems. On the other hand, it integrates and interacts with local populations, with the culture of the local peoples themselves, and also implies symbiosis with other economic sectors, also promoting their dynamisation, such as craftsmanship, agriculture, artisanal fishing, local trade, generating what can be called a local economic dynamic, with advantages for the populations. Ecotourism has a great potential in the interior of the country and in the dynamization of the interior of the country, where contact with nature can be highly valued and many activities related to nature can be undertaken, enabling the removal of a heavy burden of seasonality to tourism. But for the promotion, encouragement and the creation of conditions for the development of ecotourism, there is a whole set of assumptions that must be guaranteed, in particular, the preservation of cultural and historical heritage; the fight against and control of pollution, so that local populations and ecotourism can not be offered such unpleasant scenarios as, for example, those we have unfortunately known in the Tejo; a sustainable public transport network that facilitates the mobility of the populations and also ecotourism; a security culture that gives local confidence, being quite relevant a particular focus on forest and the size of forest fires. In addition, Mrs and Mrs. Members, ecotourism can be enhanced through national and regional networks promoting and advertising ecotourism centres and products, and certification systems can play an important role in this regard. It may also be the launch of specific financial support programmes and not only micro, small and medium-sized operators, encouraging environmentally sustainable choices, in particular with regard to waste reduction and good referral, efficient use of water or energy efficiency. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is with this objective and in this context that the Greens present today a bill to the Assembly of the Republic that promotes and develops ecotourism and that — a question that, in our perspective, is fundamental — seeks to programme the same objective. In our view, this programming should have a regional charism and, therefore, we propose in this bill the creation of regional ecotourism programmes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u187	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, but not before we take the opportunity to greet and congratulate Mrs Assumption Cristos for her birthday. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today makes a recommendation to the Government to support and enhance Astrotourism projects within Portugal. They're asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about Astroturism. It is precisely, as the name indicates, an activity that consists of looking at the sky to observe the stars. As this observation is not possible anywhere, it is necessary for the sky to be clear and, therefore, for the observation to be made in a dark zone, i.e. in an area without pollution, light, away from the cities. This is therefore a project that, in our understanding, can benefit, and much, the interior of the country. It is essential, of course, to involve municipalities throughout this process. In our opinion, as I have already said, Astroturism can be a huge potential for the interior regions. But it is not just our opinion, there are international data that indicate that there is a potential market for many million people. Astroturism also has enormous complementarity with other activities in rural areas that can enhance other types of tourism, nature tourism itself in all its valences, gastronomic tourism and, also, other types of economic activities, in rural and indoor areas. There are already some countries, such as Australia, New Zealand or Chile, who have waged in this niche market, but I think Portugal can be pleased to have the world's first destination with the Starlight Tourism Destination certification, in the Alentejo area, in the Alqueva region. The CDS therefore believes that we can follow this great example and protect more sky areas with potential for Astroturism. You need to protect why? Because, as I said at the outset, they need to be areas with some darkness and in which, therefore, there is no illumination of cities. We also understand that this type of tourism should be included in the Portuguese tourist offer. As for the Greens project, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we agree either with the arguments generally presented here today or with what is in the text. But, honestly, we do not see an advantage in creating a new law, basically, a new category of tourism. In our understanding, what is intended with the Greens project is already framed in what is the current nature tourism. The National Nature Tourism Programme, in fact, when it was created in 1998 was intended only for protected areas. But I remember — Mr President, I am concluding — that in 2015 the concept of nature tourism was changed with the creation of the new National Nature Tourism Programme, which intended to cover not only protected areas but all nature tourism valences. Therefore, we understand that it may be more advantageous, even if we are not multiplying legislation, creating a category or certification, such as the one that already exists with Natural.PT.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u190	I really am concluding, Mr President. For example, having a greater requirement for ecotourism at the level of the criteria for this certification, but not precisely creating new legislation, which would multiply and would, I think, bring more context costs. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u191	Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting The Greens for the presentation of this bill. in a phase in which a tourism boom occurs in Portugal, especially mass tourism, discussing the importance of alternative tourism segments is of the greatest relevance for the future sustainability of the sector and the country. Massified tourism is measured by short-term figures, statistics and profitability. Volatility is one of its real brands. Ecotourism, or green tourism, is made of tourists concerned about nature, which, as a rule, preserve the environment. Ecotourism is a tourism segment that sustains natural, cultural heritage, encouraging its conservation, with a view to developing an environmental awareness, thus promoting a balance between man and nature. The International Ecotourism Society defined it as a responsible trip to natural areas, aiming to preserve the environment and promote the social well-being of the populations. In ecotourism, the consumer is more selective, more conscious and more demanding; he seeks culture, traditions, material and immaterial heritage; he has an environmental concern overcome. Ecotourism is less intensive, less seasonal, more responsible and thus contributes to a decrease in the ecological footprint of the planet that humanity destroys, every year, earlier in time. We need to counter or at least rebalance the "touristification" of the coast and the centralities of the major cities, with sustainable eco-friendly alternatives, also in the most depressed territories of the country, whether they are in the interior, in the coast, in the south, in the centre or in the north, all with their specific attractions and variables, and with the ability to create wealth, fix populations, support asymmetries and dynamize these regions. We need to develop a tourism based on its activity in mutual respect between man and the environment, for the sake of environmental sustainability but also human. Ecotourism combines its environmental, social and economic aspects, inseparable aspects for future tourism activity in Portugal, which should be organized with better planning and more effective management. This bill enables the new framework for the future and sustainability of tourism activity in the country and thus the Left Block is associated with its approval, and it is up to the PS Government to increase, dynamize and monitor regional ecotourism programs in territories equivalent to NUTS II (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes). You have the floor of this House and then the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u193	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u194	I will finish, Mr. President. As for the CDS resolution project, it is another segment of the expanding tourism market in the world, with an example, already with some dynamization in Alentejo, in the area of Alqueva, and that we believe to be another possibility of diversification and / or complementing the tourist offer in Portugal. Finally, I would like to stress that, during this project, the CDS begins by looking at the sky, going through an eclipse in relation to the responsibilities that it has already had within this country, and fundamentally - in areas of darkness. It needs to be clarified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u195	Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sustainability of tourism activity is one of the main concerns of the current government, being mirrored in the Tourism Strategy 2027, approved by the Council of Ministers, which provides for social and environmental sustainability goals, in addition to the concrete objectives of economic sustainability. Yesterday, as we know, it was World Tourism Day, marked in several regions in a way that Portugal deserves, in which Portugal is revising. In fact, Portugal is a champion in the « Oscares de Turismo», which is due not only to the work of all those involved in the sector, to those who work daily in it — workers, entrepreneurs, etc. — but also to all Portuguese who welcome this record number of tourists. I would naturally like to say that the sustainability that we are talking about here today, and that both the Greens and the CDS projects — in a given segment — refer to us, is very expensive, because these projects refer to development at the level of the entire national territory. This is, therefore, the great potential of tourism at the level of its local development. Then I would say that it is necessary to continue to do more. But at this level, the Government already has concrete measures for the development of inland tourism. I would like to point out that the objectives defined — the decrease in seasonality rate; ensuring that tourism activity has a positive impact on the resident populations; increasing energy efficiency levels; rational water management; efficient management of the waste of tourism companies — while defining economic objectives and social objectives of valuing people working in tourism, is essential and essential to us. We would also like to mention all the results that are currently demonstrated in terms of the effects of the deconcentration of tourism demand and the promotion of territorial cohesion itself and, in this sense, the measures that relate to the dynamization of strategic assets in low density territories. I note that, still this week, an investment of EUR 300 000 was presented by the Secretary of State of the Environment for environmental recovery in the Natural Park of the International Tile. I would also like to recall, among the 36 prizes that Portugal has had, one that is very expensive to us, the fact that Portugal has been considered for the second time Better European Destination, and I also refer to the Paiva Passadizos in Arouca, in an interior council, which are of fundamental importance, because there were also two distinctions that demonstrate all the work being done in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u198	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Greens project deserves us a good welcome, since we deserve attention to deepen this matter, which we would like to do in the specialty, because we have to take care that, for example, the regional tourist authorities have to be considered there, and I am sure there will be an opening to make other amendments. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the CDS project deals with a segment of tourism which is already, as Mrs Patrícia Fonseca mentioned, to be implemented at Alqueva level. We believe it is an important segment, which has reception in the National Tourism Strategy. Of course, the fact that the CDS here draws attention to him is...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u199	The honourable Member concludes, but slowly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u200	... well positive, but it is also included in the Tourism Strategy 2027. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u201	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is indisputable to say that Portugal has made an absolutely remarkable journey in tourism. Tourism, over the last few years, in particular since 2012 has made an invaluable contribution to the recovery of the economy and this, in many cases, is beyond the intervention of any government, resulting in the external environment and a wide range of changes that have occurred. Fortunately, tourism is increasingly being discussed, not strictly from a quantitative point of view, but from a qualitative point of view, based on an environmental responsibility, in the adoption of cleaner technologies, seeking to create more value, a more careful use of resources, and thus responding to what is a change in the profile of tourists, this changes which is increasingly rooted in the identity of spaces, in the preservation of cultural heritage and in the creation of value by singularity. But it can rightly be said that it is no longer now, because all plans, at national level, which have been built in this regard, already point to a view of tourism from the point of view of its sustainability that is reflected in these plans. It is even possible in 2015, as has already been mentioned — and this about the Greens bill — that the scope of intervention of the National Plan for Nature Tourism has been extended to the whole country, not being only 21% of the protected areas, just to give expression to this logic of sustainability, seeking to create a brand with greater value, to reduce regional asymmetries and to guarantee this deconcentration of tourism, which is virtuous in that it presents relevant economic alternatives to low density areas, which do not have many economic responses and lack tourism as a driving force of resurgence of its economy and attractiveness of people. Now, I believe that in 2016, the Government redefined this concept of nature tourism and perhaps, as a result, has withdrawn effectiveness from the Plan, having not created any alternative planning mechanism. Perhaps that is the reason behind the Greens' initiative, if I interpret it well, which seems to us that it would require a lot of work to be a useful tool, which would not create overlaps, would not be excessively bureaucratic and would not collide with the role of the tourism regions, until these issues, as has already been said, are themselves translated into the plan by 2027. Therefore, to some extent and in the good intention of the Greens project, we are concerned that it does not serve to respond to a need that occurs but circumscribes the scope of application of these plans, creates these overlaps, and, creating this, with good intention, is not a virtuous mechanism but, yes, a mechanism that creates more bureaucracy. Still, based on this good intention, we will abstain - so that, in the specialty, we can verify, in particular, whether it is possible to construct a more detailed alternative, with all the opening,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u203	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u204	...because I think it is of all interest, more and more interest, we will walk towards the sustainability of tourism. That, yes, is something very important to the country. It is relevant from the point of view of tourist demand, from the point of view of the creation of supply and I think that we are all brothers and sisters in the importance that tourism has in the national landscape. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u205	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing here today a draft law of the Greens Ecological Party on the development of ecotourism, and a draft resolution of the CDS-PP on Astrotourism, which are somehow strongly interconnected. Indeed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, every year, the tourism sector continues to beat records and, with that, it will make great headlines. Enthusiast with the fine behavior of the sector, there is no one who fails to consider that we must increase the intensity of tourism in Portugal. In eight years, tourism in the national economy increased by 47 %. According to the 2017 data, that year represented 12, 5 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) and 7, 1 % of VAB ( gross value added ). In the last five years it has been twice its size, and therefore the contribution of this sector to the national economy is undeniable, not only for the profits in tourist revenues but also in hotels. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are three or four questions which, in a way, leave us concerned about these two projects. If it is positive that the tourism sector is contributing to the country's economic growth, it is also not desirable that our economy is dependent on just one activity, whatever it is, but especially in the case of tourism, where there is great sensitivity to price and yield changes. in this sense, the more diversified our economy is, of course, more robust and less vulnerable. Another aspect that also concerns us and that does not allow us to rest is the fact that tourist activity is a geographically concentrated reality. In other words, in terms of guests, Lisbon and Algarve already represent more than half of the tourism in Portugal alone. It seems to us, then, essential that the territorial inequalities are combated through tourism, on the one hand, by making regions that cannot enjoy the benefits of this activity so much, and by avoiding the negative effects of concentration in regions with high tourist presence. Another concern has to do with the fact that the tourism sector is the one that performs the lowest wages of the entire Portuguese economy, with the exception of the textile sector. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why does a successful sector not reflect this in the wages and the quality of the jobs of these workers? This is one of the questions that needs to be answered. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the projects under consideration, ecotourism can be a sustainable tourist offer, in respect of the architectural, cultural and social peculiarities that it is necessary to preserve, because they make our cities, villages and villages so interesting from the tourist point of view, under the penalty of later come to lose what is their interest and their attractiveness. As for Astroturism, it is a tourist aspect in clear expansion, from which the lake of Alqueva stands out, the first to be distinguished in the world and to display the quality seal granted by the Starlight Foundation, with the support of UNESCO. in this sense, allow me to leave a repair, in view of the absence in the two projects of the role played by regional tourism entities. The role played by all of them, but in particular by the Regional Entity of Tourism of the Alentejo, has been important for promoting cultural activities and heritage, and it already holds five classifications attributed by UNESCO to heritage and cultural practices in the Alentejo, from which it stands out to the project of promotion Heritage of Humanity of the Alentejo : a lived and shared history. The CFP will monitor these projects, continuously alerting for the need to deepen, as is the case, in the discussion in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u207	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have listened carefully to the speeches of all parliamentary groups, particularly in the part in which they spoke on the bill that The Greens are presenting today, for the promotion and development of ecotourism, and I would like to say that I consider the attention which the various parliamentary groups have made to the proposal we have tabled here to be quite relevant. We are, of course — and I would like to leave this debate to be available to, as a specialist, collect a number of contributions from the most diverse entities, but also to, in the joint work of all parliamentary groups, we can improve this bill that the Greens present here. This without losing sight of the objective presented here and which is precisely that of the generalization of the development of ecotourism in Portugal. On the subject of nature tourism, there is indeed a national plan. Nevertheless, in our perspective, ecotourism is a more comprehensive concept, either because, in practical terms, tourism of nature is more linked to protected areas, whatever its classification, but also because we want to give a regional dimension of thought, planning, programming of ecotourism, with the involvement of local actors and regional actors. We consider this too important. The subject of certification is also, in our view, very relevant. I am talking about the creation of specific certification systems for ecotourism, so we also propose it in our bill, as well as its contribution to combating the seasonality of tourism, measuring the load capacity of each geographical area, improving the public transport system in different regions and locations. Finally, there is here a set of subjects in which this concept of ecotourism can value the sustainability of our territory and also dynamize our local economy, always in favor of good environmental standards. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u209	We are thus at the end of our agenda today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 208 presences, to which six are added, of the Members. Members of the PS Nuno Sá and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, of the BE Pedro Soares, of the Sr. Members of the CDS-PP Nuno Magalhães and Telmo Correia and of the PCP MP João Dias, representing 214 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with the votes concerning the Portuguese community in Venezuela. It was requested and allocated 2 minutes to each parliamentary group for the joint discussion of Votes 622 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and concern for the circumstances in which national citizens and Luso-descendants were detained in Venezuela, 624 / XIII / 4. the ( presented by the PSD ) — Unconditional solidarity with the Portuguese community in Venezuela, and 628 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Condemning the campaign of destabilization and threats against Venezuela and in defence of the interests of the Portuguese community. Let us therefore begin this debate before the vote. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u210	Mr President, the CDS has asked for 2 minutes to intervene on this issue not because the vote is not clear but, essentially, so that we can clarify Parliament's intention with this vote. This is almost a more focused vote on the question of human rights and the detention of these Portuguese people in particular than in an analysis — which has already been made many times here and on which, of course, our position is known — concerning both the regime and the Portuguese community in general. With regard to the regime, there is not much to say and there will be no need to add much. We are, of course, speaking of one of the most ferocious and bloodiest dictatorships in a country where, unfortunately, some 400 000 Portuguese and Luso-descendants will reside. [[PCP protests.]] A regime that prevents opponents from competing, making arbitrary arrests, having political prisoners, using militias, etc. etc. etc. It's not that way! Now, what happened was an attack on those — and many are Portuguese — who hold the sector of small trade and distribution in that country. A targeted and typical attack, to some extent, of these regimes. by using the expression attack I can help - obviously and naturally - the words used, including by the Portuguese Foreign Minister, Dr. Santos Silva, when he called it, and I quote, "offensive of the Venezuelan authorities against the sector of small and medium distribution". in this offensive numerous traders were arrested, several of them Portuguese. Arbitrarily detained, Mr. President! [[PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have been arrested because they do not accept a price that is impossible to them—because they would be making a price to those goods to which they themselves do not have access—and secondly because they are obliged to have goods for sale that they themselves cannot obtain.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u211	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u212	Mr. President, I'm done. So what we want with this vote is first of all to condemn these arrests.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u213	Mr. Deputy, 2 minutes is 2 minutes! You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u214	I'm done, Mr. President. Secondly, we support all the initiatives that help them, remembering that they have been released — we welcome that! — but are not exempt from the proceedings or from persecution by the authorities. That's our goal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u215	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rubina Berardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has been following with deep concern the escalation of the political, social and economic crisis over recent years in Venezuela. We see the numbers: more than 2, 3 million people, more than 7% of the Venezuelan population, have fled the country in recent years; more than 12,000 citizens have been arbitrarily arrested; more than 1300 political prisoners have been held; 131 protesters have died. The PSD reaffirms that the resolution of this crisis must always take precedence over respect for democracy and respect for human life. It is on the basis of this critical scenario of Venezuela that our foreign policy also turns into internal policy, because it is in Venezuela that the second largest Portuguese community in Latin America, exceeding 400 000 people, a community that has contributed decisively to the economic development of the country and which today lives in great suffering due to personal and economic insecurity. In view of the recent detention of small Portuguese traders, however, released thanks to good Portuguese diplomatic efforts, the difficult reality experienced by our fellow citizens has become even clearer for national public opinion. It is in this sense that the PSD argues that it is essential that this Parliament give an unequivocal sign of unconditional solidarity to our Portuguese community; that the Portuguese Government increase humanitarian support to those Portuguese and Luso-descendant who remain in Venezuela; that the Portuguese Government finally materialize the support promised to the region of the country that our fellow citizens have received, Madeira; and finally, solidarity, which cannot be conditioned by any ideological internationalism. Or is that what is called "left patriotism", my gentlemen? It may be left-handed, but patriotic is not, certainly! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u217	To speak, Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For those who still had doubts, the recent threats of military intervention made by Donald Trump in relation to Venezuela clarify the intentions, objectives and responsibilities of the United States in the situation of destabilization, interference and aggression outside that country, its people and also the Portuguese community there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u220	In 2015, the Obama administration passed a decree that considered Venezuela a threat to the national security of the United States, a decree that came to be confirmed by Donald Trump, who meanwhile added to it a set of other measures of blocking and economic sanctions, deliberately violating international law and the Charter of the United Nations, seeking to turn that country's life into hell. The United States has prevented Venezuela from making dollar payments, thus putting the country in a situation of difficulty in buying food goods and medicines abroad or forcing it to buy them at much more expensive prices. They prohibited transactions with Venezuelan debt securities, preventing the country from obtaining external financing and also banning any commercial transactions using the petross, the cryptomood created by the country to overcome the financial blockade of which it is a victim. The United States has openly supported groups and organisations that in the last two years have developed in Venezuela terrorist actions of economic sabotage and distribution and marketing circuits of essential goods. These actions, moreover, have intensified at a time when the Venezuelan Government is seeking to implement measures to combat terrorism, together with economic measures, in particular to combat landfilling and price speculation, regardless of who promotes them, in order to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of Venezuelans and the Portuguese community.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u222	We stress the importance of democratic rights cannot be confused with support or tolerance for practices that violate the rights of the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community as a whole. In the face of all this, the PSD and the CDS decided to instrumentalize the Portuguese community to declare here, in the Assembly of the Republic, their support for Donald Trump and the United States, their destabilizing, aggressive and terrorist action against Venezuela and its people! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u223	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u224	It is an option that we reject and that we will continue to fight, taking advantage of solidarity with Venezuela, its people and the Portuguese community there resident,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u225	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u226	... against the external assaults of which they are victims. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u227	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first words are of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and with the Portuguese community in Venezuela. Venezuela is now attending an exception in democracy, because there is no freedom for all, there is no plurality even in representation. To the same extent, it assists an exception regime in the rule of law and some of the examples we can list to show it are the arbitrary arrests that have also reached the door of the Portuguese community. Therefore, in this analysis, it is to record the action of the Portuguese Government which, together with the Venezuelan counterparts, has achieved the release of the Portuguese who had been arrested. On behalf of the Left Block, on the votes in question, I wanted to say that in this exception regime, there are no responsibilities on one side only and there are responsibilities even outside Venezuela itself. Therefore, when the CDS speaks of defending Venezuela's free competition and ignores the embargo that exists either for sale or for importing Venezuelan products, it clearly demonstrates an eager view of reality. When, on the other hand, the CFP ignores the obvious responsibilities of the Maduro regime in the situation of the country, it is clearly to have an eager view of reality. What happens, unfortunately to the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community in Venezuela, is that these visions, in practice, are having negative reflections in their lives and that is what we hope will not happen in the future, appealing to all those involved in this situation that at least let the rule of law work and that democracy once again become a reality in Venezuela. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u229	Mr. Carlos Pereira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has often spoken about these matters of Venezuela and the situation there. Venezuela's economic, political and social situation is a very serious issue and, from the point of view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it must unite all in order to ensure the best solutions for more than half a million Portuguese people living in that country. It therefore took advantage of the circumstances of these votes and their debate to give two notes, which seem very relevant to us: the first one takes into account the actual content of the votes, congratulating the Portuguese Government for the energetic and determined action with which I intervene in order to successfully overcome the unacceptable detention of at least 12 national and Luso-descendant citizens. Nevertheless, being an outdated matter, it seems to us that this vote makes all the sense, because these episodes are, from our point of view, totally unacceptable. The second note is to strengthen support for the Portuguese Government to maintain the continuance of its interventions, to maintain the dialogue it has established with its counterparts in Venezuela and, of course, to keep the diplomatic channels open, in order to ensure adequate solutions for half a million Portuguese who need to feel that Portugal has not abandoned that community. Therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the Portuguese Government, in this area, has obviously made a significant effort not only in the partnership with the Government of Venezuela, in order to ensure that this crisis has no consequences—as it has already had, but that it has no even worse consequences with the community—but also in the great partnership with the Regional Government of Madeira to somehow...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u231	Mr President, you have finished your time, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u232	I'm done now, Mr. President. ...to allow a good integration of those who are returning from that country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u233	Let us then proceed to the vote, beginning with vote No 622 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and concern about the circumstances in which national citizens and Luso-descendants were detained in Venezuela. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Let us vote vote 624 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Unconditional solidarity with the Portuguese community in Venezuela. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 628 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Condemning the campaign of destabilization and threats against Venezuela and in defence of the interests of the Portuguese community. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] Let us vote vote 623 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the order of expulsion of the inhabitants of Khan al-Ahmar by the Israeli authorities. I call on Mrs Sandra Pontedeira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u234	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « The Government of Israel ordered the inhabitants of the Palestinian village of Khan al-Ahmar in the occupied West Bank to abandon it before 1 October. Currently living in this community 32 families, in a total of 173 people, including 92 children and adolescents. Khan al-Ahmar is one of the 46 Palestinian communities that the Israeli authorities want to expel from Corridor E1, in order to establish a continuity between Jerusalem and Ma’ alle Adumim, the largest of the illegal Israeli settlers, while at the same time cutting the territorial continuity of the West Bank and trying to prevent East Jerusalem from becoming the capital of a future Palestinian state. The destruction of Kahn al-Ahmar is thus part of Israel's policy to call into question the solution of the two States as stipulated in UN resolutions, which the Portuguese State subscribes. As stressed by the Delegation of Members of the European Parliament who recently visited Khan al-Ahmar: "Forcible transfer of persons under occupation is a serious violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention and is considered a war crime. Do not keep on seeking. ” This expulsion has already been criticized by the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and by several countries including Germany, Spain, France, Italy or the United Kingdom. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : Condemns the decision of the Government of Israel to expel the inhabitants of the Palestinian village of Khan al-Ahmar, which constitutes a flagrant violation of international law; Demands the end of the policy of colonization of the Palestinian territories illegally occupied by Israel ; It calls on the Government to condemn this decision by the Government of Israel and to take appropriate diplomatic measures to reverse this decision. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u235	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 623 / XIII / 4. a, which has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSDP, the PS MP João Soares and the CDS-PP Deputies Ilda Araújo Novo and João Rebelo and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We passed to Vote No 625 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD, CDS-PP and PS ) — Congratulating the Portuguese military in the Central African Republic. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u236	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « Portugal, a member of the United Nations, has at all times assumed its permanent availability for the promotion of peace and harmony among peoples. This matrix was revealed in the presence in different theatres and in multiple circumstances and led to the UN structures, its various secretaries-generals, looking at the armed forces and Portuguese security forces as elements of valuing harmony between disavowed parts, in a very proper reading of those who walked the world and in it left marks and genes. Concerned about the humanitarian situation in the Central African Republic ( Central African Republic ), the United Nations Security Council decided in 2014 to implement a peacekeeping mission, the Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic ( MINUSCA ). This mission has begun to support the internal political process of transition to stability, with the protection of civilians as a priority. Their tasks also included support for humanitarian assistance, the promotion and protection of human rights, the implementation of the justice system and the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of the various armed groups. At the end of 2015, the RCA authorities invited the European Union to support the training process of national armed forces, the Forces Armées Centrafricaines ( FACA ), thereby establishing an operational training structure, in full cooperation and complementarity with MINUSCA. The following year, the EU launched the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) RCA with the aim of supporting the Government of that country in implementing security sector reform. Aiming to collaborate in the international community's effort to put an end to the spiral of violence and to ensure the safety of populations, in 2017, Portugal highlighted to the RCA a Unit of Infantry, which took over the mission of Quick Reaction Force (QRF) of MINUSCA. In 2018, a Portuguese General Officer took over EUTM RCA, which coincided with the strengthening of national presence on that mission. Despite the extraordinary delicacy of the missions performed and of the difficult and sometimes hostile environment, about 200 Portuguese soldiers in the RCA have been the target of the most praised by those responsible for the international organizations where they are integrated, but also by the political authorities of the RCA and the populations, who have found the determination and humanism of the Portuguese soldiers. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes in this way the courageous, self-sufficient, balanced and highly professional way in which the Portuguese military have carried out their missions, contributing to ensuring peace and stability in the RCA, with the honour of Portugal and the Portuguese Armed Forces. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and the PCP and the abstention of The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u238	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u239	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u240	Mr President, I would like to announce that, on the last vote, we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u241	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the Proposal for a Law No 132 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the new Industrial Property Code, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2015 / 2436 and ( EU ) 2016 / 943. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on a request by the PSD for postponement of votes in the speciality and overall finality of the proposed law which has just been voted on in general. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 138 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity and the procedural regime applicable to special crimes of the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-orders the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 97. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote on the Proposal for a Law No 139 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Counter-Terrorism Act, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 979 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Determines the transparency of salaries and proposes the establishment of reference salary leques as a mechanism for combating wage inequality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against PAN and PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u242	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u243	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u244	Mr President, to inform you that I shall present, together with the honourable Members. Deputies Ivan Gonçalves, João Torres and Hugo Carvalho, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u246	Mr President, to inform you that I shall, together with Mrs Fatima Ramos, Mrs Ana Oliveira and Mrs Manuela Tender, present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u247	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1318 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of grants and support to paralympic athletes equal to that of Olympic athletes. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1795 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a scheme to allow the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes with regard to the allocation of support and scholarships. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1797 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government compare Olympic and Paralympic athletes at levels two and three. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u248	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u249	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u250	Mr President, to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u251	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 956 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Promotion and development of ecotourism. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1695 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the possibility of creating mechanisms to encourage the implementation of Astrotourism projects in the regions of the interior of Portugal. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1783 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — For the extension of the maximum support period of the wage compensation fund for the Esponende fisheries professionals and other locations where similar situations occur. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1806 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the maximum stop-over period from 60 to 90 days for payment of wage compensation to fishermen in the Esponende municipality and other areas of the country. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1750 / XIII / 3 shall follow. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare an annual report on asylum policy in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of paragraphs 105 to 108 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 12, 13 and 18 July 2018 and the meeting of the Permanent Commission of 6 September 2018. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We have also to vote on two opinions from the Ethics Sub-Commission, of which Mr Duarte Pacheco will be pleased to report.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u252	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Administrative and Fiscal Court of Porto, Organic Unit 1, Case No. 2336 / 2016, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Fernando Jesus ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the procedure under reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u254	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the second report and opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, is on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Carlos Costa Neves ( PSD ), the electoral circle of Porto, and its replacement by Leonel Costa, with effect from 1 October 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since they meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u255	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this vote, I would like to wish Mr Carlos Costa Neves the greatest happiness at this new stage of his life that now begins. at the same time, and I think that representing the feeling of all Members, I would like to thank you for your work in this Parliament and also in the various governments that you have been part of, as well as all the sympathy with which you have always maintained friendship with your comrades, not only from your bench but also from other benches. [[PSD and CDS-PP, standing, PS, standing, and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u256	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u257	Please, Mr President, considering that this is your last intervention, at least for now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u258	Mr President, today I do not need to ask the Bureau for an explanation. I am very grateful for the words of Mr President, who have silenced me, as well as for all the colleagues who, during these days, have dedicated to me words that have also kept me quiet. I will not say that it is worth going away to hear these words, because I hope to have the opportunity to continue living with you. This is the time to note the respect and appreciation I have for all, without exception. Some of you have had the opportunity to get closer and I can even consider myself friends with many of those who are here, in this Chamber, regardless of the benches, but I have appreciation and respect for all. I must say that, sometimes with more success, sometimes with less success, I have always tried to follow what was my interpretation of national interest, I have always tried to deal with both my colleagues at my bench and my political opponents, I have always tried to understand each other and I have always tried to be loyal. As I said, I feel that sometimes I've been successful, sometimes I won't be so successful; of course I'll always have a great pleasure to meet each and every one of you in whatever circumstances it is. And because, like many of you, I also hate to say goodbye, to finish, I would not say, even forever, but even now. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u259	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco still has some ads to make to the House. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills Nos 1000 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates training schemes for drivers in an equal framework of criteria and with the same application in terms of requirement ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1001 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns competence to municipal chambers for the licensing of cars with a view to the individual transport activity of passengers on decharacterised vehicles from electronic platforms ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1002 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — The definition of prices and tariffs with clarity, transparency and stability and establishes an approved tariff which prevents price fluctuations, preventing the sale with injury ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ), which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1825 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government immediately adopt all the procedures and measures necessary for the construction, as soon as possible, of the new facilities of the Paediatric Center of the University Hospital Centre of São João, in Porto, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1826 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Recognition of the hours of service of teachers placed in incomplete hours, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1827 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A23, which fall to 6. the Commission, 1828 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A24, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1829 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A25, which goes down to 6. the Commission, and 1830 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in the sections of A22 / Via do Infante, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-09-28.u261	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. The next plenary session will be on Wednesday at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: firstly, political statements; secondly, joint assessment of Petition No 432 / XIII / 3. a ( Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão Gonçalves de Campos et al.) — They request the improvement of laws for the protection of equidae, of the Bill No. 980 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — It foresees the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to their protection, in general, and of the Resolution Project No 1785 / XIII / 3. a — Recommends to the Government the preparation of a survey on the use of equidae in animal traction vehicles and consequent regulation; third and lastly, joint assessment of Petition No 324 / XIII / 2. a (Octávio Mateus et al.) — They request the creation of legislation with a view to banning the hunt of the fox and, in general, of the Bills Nos 538 / XIII / 2. a ( The Greens) — prohibits hunting for foxes and crabs and excludes these species from the List of Cinderella Species, making the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August, 982 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Prevents fox hunting using paulada and t-shirts, 983 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Remove the fox and raspberry from the list of species subject to kinetic exploitation and 996 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits hunting for foxes and frogs and removes these species from the list of kinetic species. Good afternoon to all and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 9 minutes.]]
