ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the sitting and ask you to take your seats in the Chamber. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority will be in favour of determining the opening of the galleries. Before we come to our agenda, I ask Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Pedro Alves, to announce the set of initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and several legislative initiatives have been admitted: proposals by lein. 115 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the functioning and framework of non-judicial consumer dispute resolution entities which fall to 1. the Commission, 116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between men and women in management and public administration bodies, which falls below 1. the Commission, and 117 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the law of parity in the organs of political power, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 812 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( PCP ) and 813 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and construction of university residences ( PCP ) ; Parliamentary assessment No 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March approving the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers of specialized artistic education, the anticipated internal competition and extraordinary external competition ( BE ) ; and draft resolutions No 1435 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the legal regime of the taxi sector in order to contribute to the modernisation of this transport ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1436 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate Law No 38 / 2004 of 18 August, defining the specific terms in which private employers should fill the 2 % employment quota for persons with disabilities ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1437 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an assessment of the application of Decree-Law No 29 / 2001 of 3 February establishing the system of employment quotas for persons with disabilities with a disability of 60 % or more, in the services and bodies of the central and local administration ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1438 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1439 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen the means for the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1440 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of the measures necessary for the proper and regular functioning of the Hospital Centre for the Thames and the Sousa, EPE, providing it with the necessary human resources and financial resources in order to ensure access to quality and timely health care ( CDS-PP ) for all citizens. the Commission, 1441 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the implementation of the entry of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon into the social capital of the Montepio General Economic Bank ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1442 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the integration of EMEF into the CP — to defend the future of the company and the railway sector ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1443 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By a national railway rolling stock plan ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1444 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a mission unit for the structural reorganization of the operational fire department ( CDS-PP ), 1445 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government replace the current Fire Risk Forecast Index ( CRM) in the Fire Management Mechanisms ( PAN ), 1446 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of applications for support for victims of the 2017 forest fires, the establishment of an appropriate timetable for payment of support and the clarification and extension of the criteria used for supporting purposes ( CFP ), 1447 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to support family farming as a structural option for the defence and development of the rural world, in particular in areas affected by fires ( CFP ), 1448 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For a new civil protection policy ( CFP ), 1449 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat job insecurity in higher education institutions ( CFP ), 1450 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of human resources, infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital Centre of the Thamega and Sousa, EPE ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1455 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 3. the Legislative Session ( Vice-President of RA, replaced by the President of RA, Jorge Lacão ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's agenda is presented in the debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of the fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in mainland Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u5	Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, I suppose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u6	Exactly for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u7	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u8	Mr President, today's agenda has been set, as the Rules of Procedure command, more than 15 days in advance. However, as the agenda sets out in the agenda is not the daytime announcements but the summary of the Conference of Leaders, what was recorded in the Summit of the Conference of Leaders of 20 February, which held this debate, was that, and I quote, "(...) the objective would be to allow the presentation and appreciation of legislative initiatives related to the subject". Today morning we saw an attempt by the PS and the PSD, who tried to prevent the discussion of legislative initiatives in this debate, as was decided and included in today's agenda, with Mr President-in-Office's coverage. As Mr President has the obligation to comply with the Rules of Procedure and as the Rules of Procedure state in Rule 61. the, that the agenda may be changed by the deliberations of the plenary, provided there are no votes against, please submit to the vote the amendment of the agenda and, if there are no votes against, the agenda is changed, if there are votes against, the agenda cannot be changed and the legislative initiatives that have been presented for discussion must be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u9	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for a debate on this subject, but I will have the opportunity to reply to Mr João Oliveira. In the meantime, the Bureau has made a request by Mr Nuno Magalhães, and I suppose it is also for an appeal to the Bureau on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u10	Exactly, Mr President, it is for the same purpose and in the same terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u11	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u12	Mr President, as Mr João Oliveira pointed out, I would not say 15 days ago, but one month ago, or more than one month ago — and these are the facts — at the initiative of the CFP Parliamentary Group, a debate was marked on the issue of fires, with the President of the CFP Parliamentary Group saying at the time that it would be in order to allow proposals by all parliamentary groups to be scheduled. At the request of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, as was still pending the presentation of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, the Conference of Leaders, expressed or tacitly - I repeat, the Conference of Leaders - decided to extend this debate so that the report could be presented. The report was presented and the debate was marked in exactly the same terms as the CFP proposal agreed by the Conference of Leaders. Therefore, Mr President, this is, as I have said and I repeat, a serious precedent that two parliamentary groups, a circumstantial majority, can change the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, expressed or tacit, may change the agenda of the day, may change the sum. This, in our view, is serious, not only from a democratic point of view, but also from the point of view of transparency, because from today on we know that the summaries are worth what they are worth, that is, very little, because they can always be changed. in these same terms, I make the same request as the CFP Parliamentary Group. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u13	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Conference of Leaders had the opportunity to take a look at this point and it turned out that all parliamentary groups have, with certain legitimate grounds, expressed different positions, which are, of course, also based on a different interpretation of what was decided at the Conference of Leaders. Indeed, as Mr João Oliveira, seconded by Mr Nuno Magalhães, has just mentioned at the Conference of Leaders of 20 February, it was understood that a thematic debate on forest fires would be marked. in this Conference, as Mr João Oliveira said, the CFP Parliamentary Group agreed that it would be appropriate..." — and I am quoting the Sumula itself — to refer this debate back to after the report, stressing that the objective would be to allow the presentation and evaluation of legislative initiatives related to the subject matter. It is, however, that no one else, at this Conference of Leaders, spoke on the criterion of scheduling, or not, other legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u14	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u15	... and it also occurs that, since there were two subsequent Conferences of Leaders, the Conference of Leaders of March 7 and the Conference of Leaders of March 14, both took place on the agenda of today exactly in accordance with the terms now set out in the agenda referred to, which I had recently read, without any reference to any related legislative initiative. It was also in these exact terms that I signed today's agenda at last week's meeting and announced this agenda to the plenary, also in the exact terms I have just mentioned. I put this, at the Conference of Leaders, the understanding of the honourable Members. Members of the CFP and the CSD, representing their parliamentary groups, were effectively diverging from this orientation. The President heard all parliamentary groups and, at the Conference of Leaders, gained the understanding that the agenda was actually set as announced last week without the annexation of legislative initiatives. This was therefore the majority position, with the favourable positions of the PSD and PS, today expressed in the Conference of Leaders. After hearing the Conference, the President decided not by amendment but by keeping the agenda at today's Conference, as mentioned in the previous Leader Conferences and as announced last week. If any of the gentlemen. Members, in the light of what I have already said in the motions, would like to make use of this decision, of course, but, in order for the plenary to take a decision, it can only do so within the appeal of the decision taken by the President, in accordance with the rules of procedure, hear the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u16	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u17	Please, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u18	Mr President, the rules of the Assembly of the Republic are not what the Members want from them, they are those of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u19	Article 61 ( 1 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic says that the agenda is not unmovable, that may be amended, but must be amended by the deliberations of the plenary, without votes against. That is what Mr President must do by subjecting the plenary to the debate on the amendment of the agenda... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u20	... under the penalty of not having any backing for the decision you are making and of giving cover to a blow from the PS and PSD, which, because they have very heavy responsibilities in the matters we are going to discuss, refuse to confront the legislative initiatives that have been delivered. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u21	Mr. João Oliveira, I can assure the whole House that, regardless of the difference in understanding, all representatives of the parliamentary groups have behaved with complete smoothness and without any blow-up attitude at the Conference of Leaders this morning. I can also stress again what I have already said: the stability of today's agenda is the result of the Leader Conferences on 7 and 14, both keeping the agenda as it exists and as it was announced last week. I will therefore not give the floor because there is no debate on this matter, just as I have to rule out, for Mr João Oliveira, if he wishes to take the intervention he has already made in the form of an inquiry as a request, to appeal to the Bureau's decision. Does Mr. João Oliveira intend to do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u22	If Mr President insists on the interpretation against the Rules of Procedure and forces me to do so, I use that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u23	He's, then, on tour. There is no debate on this subject and we shall proceed to the vote. Mrs. Members, in order to be fully clear, Mr. João Oliveira made use of the decision to circumscribe today's debate to the report of the Independent Technical Commission, as in the interpretation of the Bureau, was already fully assured and confirmed at today's Conference of Leaders. This is what we're going to vote for. I mean, if you guys are. Members vote in favour of Mr João Oliveira's appeal, which means that the initiatives put forward on this subject will be added to the agenda today ; if the appeal is rejected, these initiatives will be added to the day that the Conference of Leaders has already established for that purpose, i.e. on 13 April. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the exact terms in which I have just explained and I believe there is no doubt, we shall vote on the request for appeal of the decision which Mr João Oliveira has tabled. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, given the result of the vote, we will start the debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of the fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in mainland Portugal, as the agenda for today. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The topic of today's debate is particularly relevant to the Government. We are considering the report of the Independent Technical Commission, set up at the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic and approved unanimously, composed of representatives indicated by the Board of Rectors and all parliamentary groups, and has already done a remarkable work on public affairs. Around the fires that occurred in June last year in the Pedrogão Grande region, the Commission expressed the availability of citizenship for again, as regards the fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in the Central Region of the country, to re-examine the matter with technical qualification and independence. My first word is of recognition — I have already had the opportunity to do personally to Mr President of the Commission — for the work carried out by all the members of the Independent Technical Commission and for the importance of maintaining this great consensus in the Assembly of the Republic on this issue, which, with regard to two moments that took on a dramatic dimension, enabled the entire Portuguese society to mobilize an active response to what was the drama of forest fires in rural areas that suffered more than one hundred Portuguese, 49 of them in these fires between 14 and 16 October. As the Independent Technical Commission Report states, this was the largest fire in South Europe in 2017, due to extreme weather conditions, which determined, in fact, by the size and proliferation and dispersion in a vast territory in dozens of municipalities, situations in which, as stated in page 107 of the Report, the initial attack, either by land or air, was deeply limited to response times between 5 minutes, in the first case, and 10 to 17 minutes in the second case. That is why, as you did with regard to the first report, the Government here also values the size of both the analysis carried out and the proposals made, and the consequences of the work carried out by the Independent Technical Commission. I would say, moreover, that everything that has been done by the Government, with the active cooperation and participation, in many cases, of the Assembly of the Republic in relation to forest fires, determines a response that corresponds to the follow-up or the overwhelming majority of the proposals of the first report, which are being implemented, either until the anticipation, which had already been made, from a significant part of the proposals contained in the second report. The Independent Technical Commission is a reference to the Government, which undertakes the implementation of the essential line of the measures proposed herein. And we do so, firstly, in the dimension of prevention, this is already a great victory for the whole Portuguese society about what has happened since October and, above all, during this winter, because Portuguese society — all, rural owners, representative associations of forest producers, local authorities, public institutions, private companies — had, at this stage of combat, given absolute priority to prevention with this dimension. Thus: the responsibilities that existed in the law since 2006 and which were largely neglected became the absolute priority of Portuguese society and this is a result of the action that also falls upon the Government to encourage and promote with all the means that were within its reach, from campaigns to raise awareness of the mobilization of security forces and authorities. in the public area, safeguarding primary management ranges in national forests and protected areas also became an absolute priority, mobilizing human and financial resources. Working with the populations, the program « Aldeia Segura », which has just been coordinated with the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias, will allow the work on mobilising around simulations, exercises and information on the response at times of risk to be prioritized, as well as the radical change of the model of warnings and alerts, in greater collaboration with the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) regarding meteorological risks. The system of notices which, with all communication operators, has been defined in close work with ANACOM (National Communications Authority ) will allow alerts and warnings, either via SMS or through the media, but also in the mobilization of means for combat. We must work with the volunteer firefighters, who are the backbone of our civil protection system, with professional teams in all priority risk areas, about 400 firefighters with professional status, with voluntary firefighters' associations and place command attachments throughout the command structure, strengthening coordination in the connection between the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC ) and firefighters. We must strengthen the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ), with 600 more elements, by extending its intervention throughout the national territory such as the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service ), with more than 100 teams of forest skiers or with the hiring of forest guards. The mobilization has already allowed, by direct adjustment, the award of 140 light and heavy cars for the initial combat and expanded combat structures...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u25	What about the report? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u26	...and also the acquisition of 100 cars either for firearm corporations for 80 cars or for the special force of firefighters. As for the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ), we should mobilize the means that will enable the country to provide a network of 451 satellite antennas, 18 generators of electrical redundancy and 4 more mobile stations, as well as air resources. in this way, Portugal will begin to have, for the first time and throughout the year, a network, whether of helicopters or planes, to operate under the command of the structure of the ANPC in 2018 and 2019, as it was completed in the work with the Air Force that will allow to prepare the future. And, therefore, what culminates in this work is the work around what is a new model of an ANPC, with broadband, responding to all risks, and a new ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Forestas ), which allows to respond to responsibility for the prevention and fight against forest fires, or the creation of the technical support structure of the Mission Structure for the installation of the Integrated Rural Fire Management System. We do so without forgetting the fundamental reasons, which have to do with forest planning, with the abandonment of areas,... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ... that have lost significant part of their population, and with the fight against climate change. It is on these various fronts and from the work of the Independent Technical Commission that we are more than ever working on preventing, combating, planning, planning, preparing for the future, uniting the Portuguese around this great national design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u27	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u28	I shall respond at the end of all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u29	That being the case, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u30	Mr President, first of all, I welcome you. Ministers and the Ministers. State Secretaries. Mr Minister for Internal Administration, we have listened carefully to him and, when I heard him, it seemed that we were in the government's paradise that he does everything, that everything is resolved, but when we read this report we find that, unfortunately for all of us, he has categorically denied what Mr Minister has just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u31	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u32	When we read this report, Mr Minister, we conclude that the government has failed, repeatedly failed, cryingly and learned nothing with the tragedy of June. This is the big conclusion of the report, we just have to deal with some of the aspects that are focused on in it. Let us see: we have fallen in view of the failure of the Government to fight; it has failed in the warning to the populations; it has failed in failing to declare the state of preventive calamity; it has failed in ignoring the warnings of the IPMA ; it has failed in not keeping the fighting device on the ground; it has failed in changing the chain of command in civil protection, replacing its commanders for purely political reasons; it has failed, Mr Minister, in approving hastily, from June to July, the so-called 'forest package', criticised by all agents in the field linked to the forest sector, instead of providing, by the application of the existing legislation, as well as in the initial intervention, since 2006 to the protection of the forest against fire; it has failed in the face of the weather conditions of October when it did not anticipate the foreseeable increase in the number of ignitions and consequently, by failing to act with robust pre-position and pre-suppression measures, in order to prevent what, unfortunately, was expected. Mr Minister, as both reports of the Independent Technical Commission point out, the Government has failed. however, rather than taking on their responsibilities and correcting the mistakes made in the major fires that devastated the centre zone in June, so that such a tragedy would not repeat itself, what did the government do? He contracted focus groups, to see if his popularity had been affected; instead of prolonging the means of the Charlie phase, he moved to Delta phase and consequently diminished the device on the ground, which, as is stated in the Report itself, was in the process of demobilization. It did not deal with the resolution of the failures of the SIRESP, which again affected communications ; instead, it had other priorities, unfortunately, for all of us, perhaps because, then, we are in the middle of autarchic electoral campaign. As a result, Minister : in October we had a new tragedy, with the loss of homes, businesses, forests and, above all, with 49 more human victims — this week another person died. Having examined this report, Minister, however much we want, we cannot escape this question, which is necessary: for when is a sincere apology from the Government to the affected populations? That, yes, should be done, because it is not marketing campaigns that solve problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u33	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Government members may well announce millions of support, but the truth is that it is increasingly the announcements and complaints of people to whom the support has not arrived and, having arrived, they are far from what was necessary. The damage has increased by millions in various sectors of activity: in industry, tourism, agriculture, livestock and forest. We must, and should, value and support all those who do not cease to recover their activity. Well the government can promote a gigantic propaganda campaign, involving all means, to give the idea that everything is being done is possible, but it is not all done. Well you can try to pass the blame on the small and medium-sized forest producers and the responsibilities on the authorities that this does not only solve problems as you have all the conditions to aggravate them. Mr Minister, in order to defend the rural world and protect the forest it is necessary to respect, it is necessary to protect and defend the people who live there and from there and are not intimidating, it is not decreeing without meaning and without grounds, it is not policing, it is guaranteeing employment with rights, it is ensuring public services, it is guaranteeing support for small and medium-sized agriculture, it is ensuring the structures of the State, in particular, strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture. So, Minister, I ask you: are there many small farmers who have not been able to apply for support, is the government available to reopen applications that allow for access to support that the State has an obligation to comply with? Will the Government or not comply with the recommendation proposed by the CFP, a resolution adopted in the Assembly, which obliges the Government to recover the second dwellings? Will or will not the Government fully comply with the victim support law adopted in the Assembly of the Republic on the basis of an initiative of the CFP, to which the PS opposed by applying support to the entire territory affected by fires, including the Council of Macion? What measures are being taken to ensure the reopening of public services in the interior regions? What is the situation in the hiring of staff for the ICNF? For when is the reinforcement of the structures of the associative movement? [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u35	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, the analysis of what happened last October and the conclusions of this report actually confirm what other reports on last year's fires, until June, have already said. These conclusions point to the failure of successive governments' policies and to chronic de-investment in the prevention and fight against forest fires. But these reports and conclusions allow something else, they allow to solve weaknesses, to respond to problems and to overcome difficulties, to do a job so that the country will never go through the tragedies it has experienced last year, and that is what I ask the government, i.e. whether it is willing and available to do this work. One of the issues highlighted in this and other reports relates to the weaknesses found in the ability to predict, coordinate and articulate operations theatres, which led to the wrong strategic options. Is the Government available to restructure, as is recommended, the civil protection model? Is the Government available to ensure that the recruitment of control and coordination elements is done on the basis of criteria of competence, expertise, capacity, replacing the system of appointments with competitive procedures? One of the conclusions that goes through the various reports is the absolute and unmistakable need for the professionalization and specialization of firemen. This professionalization is essential to ensure that men and women on the ground have the skills and technical knowledge necessary to combat fires, with particular emphasis on the initial attack phase. Taking advantage of existing resources, professionalizing volunteer firefighters, is a proposal that should be considered. I therefore ask whether the Government and the Minister have that availability. Also with regard to specialization, the various Reports point to the same meaning, that is, the absolute need to integrate into the civil protection system people who understand, who know the behavior of the fire. So, I wonder if there has been so far an opportunity to do and if our civil protection system already has fire and fire analysts who know how to examine the behavior of the fire. We follow the creation of the priority intervention teams, which the Minister and the Government have already announced, but we want to know how time is left for these teams, if it is guaranteed that they work 24 hours a day and not at normal time, i.e. from 8 to 17 hours, which is the time of the EIPs (Permanent Intervention Teams), because, of course, the fires are not consistent with these times. The last question has to do with the 500 new elements that are being formed for GIPS and are currently in competition for training. What I want to know is whether the Minister confirms the news that has come out in recent days, according to which this firefighting training that the new elements of the GIPS are receiving is being done by e-learning. Does the Minister believe that this model provides the skills and capabilities necessary to combat fires, to protect populations and to protect professionals themselves? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u37	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u38	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate should, in fact, be first of all a debate by Parliament, since it was Parliament that asked for this report and, secondly, a debate with proposals. But we are here to discuss with the government, and yet, we have no problem with that, and it may even be very useful. Thanking, of course, the honourable Members. Ministers and the Ministers. I would like to say, firstly, Mr Minister, that I have listened to him very specifically on the day following this report and, let me tell you, Mr. Minister starts with the principle and talks about the end, but above all, the whole body of the report, about everything that this report demonstrates to us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u39	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u40	...zero. That is to say, Mr Minister starts by referring to the extreme conditions, the unique climate conditions, the hole Ophelia, the very difficult moment — which is all true and in the report — but then jumps from there to cleaning up the forest, to government measures, etc. Above all that's in the middle I didn't say anything. In other words, I did not say that there was a complete failure of the government, that you are part of the forecasting of these same circumstances,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u41	... that there was a failure when the state of calamity was not requested, which had been planned in August and that was not maintained for October, that there was a failure when the Charlie phase was not extended, making that there were less 4222 operational and 30 air means, that there was a failure of absolute prediction and incompetence. Nothing about this. I'm sorry, but Mr Minister looks like one of those old disks that starts very well, but then he jumps and goes to the end of that same band. On that I said nothing, I suggest you take this opportunity to do so. We do not want to spend our lives discussing the past, but if we do not take lessons from the past, with what happened with the fires of Pedrogan and even with the fires of October, for four months, we will not be able to prepare the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u42	Secondly, Mr Minister, already in the debate and in the debates we had in which I could call a post-report, there is an extraordinary fact that, in addition to these failures I have spoken about, there is an even more serious one, which is the possibility of having been asked, given the lack of means, to strengthen the government and that strengthening has been denied.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u44	What do we know about that? The former Secretary of State and our colleague Mr Jorge Gomes came to say exactly what Mr José Medeiros has just said, that this is not true, that this is a lie in the report. But it is not a lie that fell from heaven that not a storm, it is a lie told by him who was, at the time, the second commander and the operational commander, Lieutenant-Coronel Albino Tavares. So, Minister, we have here a question that needs to be clarified, which needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u46	This is because of two things, Mr Minister, or what Mr. Jorge Gomes says is not strict—but Mr. Prime Minister says he knows—or, then, a GNR career lieutenant, who was the operational commander at the time, was lying. Of course, Mr Minister, you do not escape this debate either, and you do not escape for a simple reason, because, curiously, this lieutenant-coronel is the same with regard to which the controversy of the tape of time, in Pedrogão, has been raised. After that, you have appointed him and now you have a member of your party to say that he tells lies. Question, Minister : does he or she not keep trust, since he is attached to the current National Director of Civil Protection? This is a fundamental question, Minister, because this causes a problem: you speak in confidence, speak in positive actions — we have seen how positive those 6 minutes and 47 seconds so intense that Mr. Prime Minister cleaned up the forests — it is all right, we join in this effort, we are all making that effort. But, Mr Minister, it is vital at this time that the Portuguese have confidence in civil protection, and it is not with this public exchange of accusations, with this calling of liars to one and calling of liars to another that such confidence can settle down.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u48	Liar? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u49	None of this comes from the opposition, it comes from officials appointed by you or from members of your own party. [[PS protests.]] It is not the opposition, Mr President, that is you. It was the Socialist Party that failed, that failed in turn and that continued to create a lack of confidence in Portuguese in this matter. [[PS protests.]] Firstly, the Minister says that much is being done, and we hope that yes and we believe that yes, this is also our perspective. But now I ask you: what guarantees can you give us in relation to the air? When will they be available? How many, how much, why is this also fundamental so that this tragedy does not repeat itself again? Secondly, in relation precisely to the law of the ANPC which the Government will be preparing, when can we have it? When do we get the reformulation? Thirdly, does it or does it not agree with what is in the report in relation to a mission unit to review the role of combat and the role of firefighters themselves? In this regard, we have already presented a draft resolution, but unfortunately it will not be possible to discuss it today. Now, by not undermining the question of cleaning, which we think is important, the Minister has certainly noticed that the report says that the diploma of his colleague on agriculture would not have solved this problem and, despite it being useful, it is not the big solution to solve the matter. If we have significant projections, that may not be the way. Mr Minister, we are asking you concrete questions in a perspective which is obviously constructive but you cannot forget what has happened, you cannot forget the failures and continue to see a sad spectacle of exchange of accusations between those who have had responsibilities and those who continue to have responsibilities now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u50	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, if I may, I shall begin by welcoming all the members of the Independent Technical Commission, on behalf of the Group of the Greens, for their hard work which they have done within such a short period of time, producing a document which I believe is of utmost importance to the country and, specifically, to the Assembly of the Republic. This report joins a series of reports which the Assembly of the Republic already has and which necessarily have to make us reflect, debate, propose and act, certainly. Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ministers in particular, The Greens believe that we all have to work to ensure that the tragedies that occurred in 2017 do not happen again. We haven't been stopped until now. in this sense — and I will not mention any other components, of which I will then have the opportunity to speak in my final intervention — from three concrete proposals presented by the Greens in the Assembly of the Republic, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 9 / 2018 of 15 January, which recommends to the Government the launch of a self-protection programme that promotes information campaigns and awareness-raising on how to act in the event of forest fire. This is a question that is well reflected in the report on the fires of Pedrogão and for which it is again called to attention in this report. in this resolution the Government was also urged to launch, at local, regional and national level, a programme with appropriate measures to ensure the self-protection of populations and to promote a campaign to train and raise public awareness about how to act in the event of fire, and the need to test the program is expressly mentioned by means of simulations. On the other hand, in this resolution it is also recommended to the Government to launch awareness-raising, strategic and proximity campaigns aimed at preventing ignitions resulting from negligent actions—which was highlighted in the report under discussion, where it can be read that the burn has a very significant responsibility for ignition—and that it determines the promotion of a broad dissemination of the essential contents of these programmes and campaigns, in cooperation with the media. Mrs. Members of the government, we are at the end of March. We must ask ourselves: what is the Government doing in concrete terms to comply with the resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic? It's just that soon we're in the summer. The issue of the launch of this programme and this campaign on self-protection matters is, in the perspective of the Greens, fundamental. on page 198 of the Report, there is a very interesting question—and for which the Greens have repeatedly called attention—which relates to a history of dismantling the structure of forest policy management, particularly since the mid and late 1990s. The dismantling of the Forest Institute is highlighted, the transfer of the body of the Forest Guard and the management of the National Network of Monitoring Posts to the GNR, the organizational instability with successive restructurings, much planning without corresponding means available and capacity for implementation, substantial reduction of staff of the forest entity framework. Finally, this is a set of measures that have been taken permanently which have failed in the organic stability and in the conditions of operation of this organic. That is why, by taking steps forward, the Greens, in view of this reality, want to ask the following questions: how will we now provide the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests with investment and adequate staff to act on the ground? This is a Institute which has actually been voted on for constant subordination by successive governments. It has already been noticed that we do not go there and we have already realized that we need trained, trained staff in sufficient number to act effectively. Mrs. Ministers, as we have received complaints on the ground, I also ask: what psychological support is being provided to firefighters, who are the people we are going to ask for service next summer? What effective support is being given to these firefighters, to these national heroes we are constantly greeting, and well, but to whom do we have to give conditions of action? I had more questions to ask but you will certainly stay for my final intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u52	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Very directly, because I do not have much time, I begin by replying to Mrs Emília Cerqueira, a reply which will also benefit most of you from Mr Telmo Correia. The Government assumes all the responsibilities and draws all the conclusions of this report by the Independent Technical Commission, as it has withdrawn from the previous report. That is why, in terms of planning, combating, preventing and responding to structural challenges, since the Extraordinary Council of Ministers of 21 October, we are actively doing everything to make the future different, but above all, to have such a means to be different this year. Mr Telmo Correia has raised a question on which I will not waste much time, because, as an illustrious lawyer, you will understand that I am quite right. He armed a diatric here...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u54	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u55	... on the basis of a contradiction of statements by a Member and a person whom I replaced as the second national operational commander. With regard to the question of ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ), a determination by my office by the Inspectorate General of Internal Administration, regardless of what other entities with responsibilities, particularly in judicial matters, intend to continue on this matter. What is essential, Mr John Dias, is to involve the whole Portuguese society in this effort. We are doing so, like farmers, municipalities, forest producers, but the Minister of Agriculture will further develop some of the issues he has raised. Mrs Sandra Cunha, you are right and that is why we have balanced the ANPC's allocation with adequate technical support, replaced its top structure and are ensuring stability in the response next summer. in the new organic law, we will establish a competition rule, a professionalization rule in the choice of tables and, for firefighters, which are an essential element of our response, we are talking about about about about about eight dozen professional teams, i.e. more than 400 firefighters with professional status to add to those who already exist in more than 160 teams today. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u56	Mr. Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u57	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, you are absolutely right about the size of a self-protection response. We're doing it. It is true that the priority of this winter, the great victory that Portuguese society has already had in the collective response to the 2017 tragedy, was prevention. It has never been done as much as it has so far been in the field of prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u58	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u59	Next, we go to self-protection, safe villages programs, safe populations, warning and alert systems, response kits at the level of the fregueses.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u60	Mr. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u61	In addition, we will provide the ICNF with a new nature and adequate means. On this point too, I understand that the Minister for Agriculture will complete, when he makes an intervention, what time has not now allowed. We all count on all the banks for this great national effort to prevent, combat and plan for a determined response to the tragedy of last year, creating confidence in the ways of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u62	We are now entering the stage of the interventions, and the first is that of Mr José Miguel Medeiros. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The best way of valuing or respecting the report and the initiatives they wanted to discuss today is in fact to separate their discussion. Anyone who wants to promote a serious discussion on a document and on so many initiatives, then, cannot want to do everything in the two-hour period. There is no political seriousness when we intend to discuss 10 or 12 initiatives and a report with this complexity at this time. I'm sorry, but I had to say this. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u64	Sorry about the bad payer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u65	Typical excuse for the student who didn't do the housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u66	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The fires that made a tragic year for Portugal in 2017 have been tackled in very different ways. Sometimes they have been approached with a constructive and critical spirit in order to correct problems they have had decades and, at other times, they have been approached in a political weaponistic logic, unfortunately the one we have heard most today in this session. Difficult moments like those of us who live last summer require enormous responsibility in their discussion and they must force us to a demanding vote and a clear collective awareness of what is urgently needed in the political sphere. As in the first report, the Commission's main conclusions clearly show the structural problems of the forest in Portugal, but also the planning of the territory and land use and the insufficient operational response capacities in scenarios of extreme weather severity, increasingly frequent and regular. the careful reading of the two reports and their recommendations is clear that it is not possible to respond effectively to the phenomena of this dimension in a exclusively operational response. Indeed, without proper planning of the territory, without forest management and without effective prevention, it is not possible to respond under appropriate conditions to such circumstances only with the operational and combat aspect. Without prejudice to all the corrective measures that are already being taken, and which have been fully stated here by Mr Minister of Internal Administration, especially through the significant effort we have witnessed in terms of cleaning and setting up fuel management ranges and strengthening operational means and structures, it is clear that it is necessary to go deeper in the long term, both at the level of planning and territorial planning, as well as at the value of the territories, through active policies aimed at their population recovery and at promoting a new model of economic and social development. If there is justice that we have to do to the work of the Independent Technical Commission, which I take advantage of, from the very outset in the first report but with particular emphasis in this, it is that, without failing to find out in a demanding way what has failed and why, it has always sought to look for the causes of the tragedy and the problems identified, indicating, through its appropriate recommendations, the changes and reforms that must be pursued and that the Government, essentially, adopted in October and is implementing, on the ground, as it is necessary and can be verified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The report is unequivocal in relation to what needs to be done immediately: giving priority to prevention; improving alert; qualifying for relief and protection of persons and goods; and strengthening and further qualifying for combat. But the report also says, with equal clarity and importance, that we cannot ignore that the paradigm has changed and that, therefore, there is a need for truly structural changes, some of them already in progress since October. It also points out, and explicitly, that other structural measures, particularly in the economic and social aspects, will now have to be accelerated, above all - and I say - those that are already planned, and are many, by the Mission Unit for the Valorisation of the Interior. Alongside the June Fires document, this new Report is a basis of knowledge, research and sustained analysis which, by unanimous views and technical quality that characterize it, is already contributing to this change as urgently as necessary. These changes necessarily imply consensus to give effective political sustainability to the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission and is in achieving this consensus, around the conclusions of the Commission and without excluding other contributions, which poses the most relevant political challenge to all sovereignty bodies, starting with the political forces of this Assembly, which represents the Portuguese people. on the side of the Government, we have seen a total openness to accept all the recommendations of the Commission and Parliament, as it has shown in October, and the same is said about what has been the action of the President of the Republic, always present and committed. This is therefore the right time for all the parties represented in this House to join civil society, the authorities, the Government and the President of the Republic in a broad consensus around this gigantic national effort that is under way and which is intended to restore the confidence due to people and territories, both in relation to the role of the State in its defence and protection and in relation to the future of its lives and generations to come. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u67	You have the floor for a second speech, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the members of the Independent Technical Commission and of the firearm corporations in the gallery, stating that this Commission has produced a report which is free and impartial, which has nothing to do with parties and which, in conclusion, has swept this government away. In view of this harsh evidence, it was expected that a humble voice from a member of the government, especially its leader, because the importance justified this very thing, would come here before the Portuguese to assume their responsibility and to shame the victims and their families. It was not so much about apologizing, although no one was so surprised by this sobriety; it was just the basic recognition that he did not do what he could and did not do what he should and because of this they lost their lives 49 people, 70 were injured, 800 were left without his first home and 500 saw his companies die. An area equivalent to 5000 football fields has been decimated. An almost unprecedented drama. Instead of that expected and commensurate modesty, how did the government behave? How superb! That's the word. First he blamed the power of nature; then he pointed his finger to EDP ; then he rose up against the landowners because they did not clean them, as if the State cleaned their own; then he accused the social communication of reporting badly and, already in despair, tested an end-of-week choreography with a simulation of cleaning the forest...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u69	That's why Rio was right back!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u70	... by several ministers, who took more time to dress up the clothing they gave them than to catch her in the ditch to clean up the forests. [[PSD applause.]] It could have been a worthwhile and justifiable awareness campaign. It's true! It could have been but it wasn't, and it wasn't because of the moment it happened. The irony of irony: this action drew attention to a situation in which the report said that the Government had not paid any attention at any time to its mandate. But the report says a lot more. He says that the state and guardianship were not at the time nor did they learn the lesson from the fires of Pedrogão ; they acted as if nothing had happened before and all that was bad in Pedrogão repeated and worsened on 15 and 16 October 2017. It is true that the country faced an extreme climate phenomenon, but extreme was also the inability and complacency of the Government in the fight against fires. Mrs. Ministers, it is good to remember that the month of October 2017 was already marked as a month of high fire risk. The government knew this! Civil Protection knew about this! The Portuguese Bombers League is the same and therefore remembered and requested it to be strengthened, maintained or extended the Charlie phase with the maximum availability of means. Ignoring these warnings, what was done? On the contrary! The government reduced 30 air vehicles and 3445 fire fighters; it closed numerous security posts; it pre-positioned the means that remained in the wrong places; and before that, it had even appointed commander posts without training. But there's more. And, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, it's no diatribe! ... Before a month atypically hot and adverse how did the government react to the appeals of Civil Protection? And this is documented, can throw the case for the courts, for the committees of inquiry, that the truth is only one: on 27 September, the Civil Protection requested a reinforcement of 105 fire crews and the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration today, only authorized 50 ; on 9 October, one week of these tragedies, the Civil Protection requested authorization for the allocation of four aircraft and the response came only on 16, after 46 people died ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u71	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u72	... on October 9 the Civil Protection asked for four more helicopters and the answer only arrived there on day 16, after the fires and after the tragedies. And that's not all, sirs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Discoordination and lack of professionalism was such that Civil Protection did not activate the air media, did not alert the population, did not evacuate villages in time and left their fellow citizens without help, alone, with the voracity of the flames and unfortunately with the call of death. Mrs. Ministers, fire may be inevitable, but what is not inevitable is the passivity and incompetence of management manifested. And they do not think that we underline this torpor with pleasure or with easy opportunism often associated with opposition parties. The report is very clear on one thing: if the fight had been ready and fast, if the air surveillance was active and functioning, the spread was blocked and the consequences brutally minimized. [[PS protests.]] An independent study that reflects the lack of means, lack of knowledge, lack of coordination, lack of surveillance, lack of readiness in combat, lack of air fleet, lack of mobilization of means for discontinuity is a shame for the country and should make the color of those who have the duty to guarantee our collective security. There is, however, one thing that the report did not point out: the lack of commitment of fire companies. The firemen did everything they could... [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] ...and, therefore, deserve from here a word of great appreciation, of great gratitude and of very fair recognition. Mrs. Members of the Government, to end, do us a great favor: if they are still in office in 2018 and if nothing happens this year and next – let's hope it doesn't happen! — do not dive into the perverse self-satisfaction that the calm is due to the action of the Government. Always rest, because it is more pedagogical and more advised, in the idea that there is a brutality of territory that will not only burn and so alone because it has already burned! It is not by any government action, it is because it is already burned and does not burn again in 2018 and 2019. [[PS protests.]] But in what has not yet burned, please reform, act, govern, not captive, do not do in Civil Protection what they are doing in health, education, defense and all public investment. Don't keep captivating the future of the country! And believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: the best tribute you can pay to the memory of those who are not already here, who have been abandoned have lost their lives and who have not resisted the ineffectiveness of those who have the duty to defend and have not defended, is to assume your responsibilities directly, clearly and objectively. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u73	Mr Coimbra, to whom I give the floor, has been appointed to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to greet the Independent Technical Commission for the work it has done, and I hope that they can also continue to follow the measures that our Government will certainly continue to develop in the future. The recognized technical and scientific capacity associated with this work enables us to focus strictly on what is essential, which is above all the future of our territory. I therefore also welcome the whole House, which has made it possible in good time and with broad and broad consensus to set up this Commission. What makes no sense is to act as the PSD has done. What does not make sense and act as the PSD acted, a few minutes after the presentation of a complex, 274-page technical report, when it made statements that only demonstrate the will to make this tragedy a political weapon, without respect for the suffering of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It seems that the PSD had already written its statements before even hearing the report. Pure demagogy! This is what has been done here today, because what has been said just now does not correspond to what is written in the report, especially with regard to means of combat and its efficiency in the face of this tragedy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must read the report, interpret it and understand it, but there is certainly something that must unite us: it is that, despite the efforts of the last few months, there is still much to do and there is still much to correct, certainly. It is also important to mention, and I will quote page 14 of the Report: « The fires of October 15 were dominated by the influence of the Ophelia drilling. » It was the set of phenomena that developed, and not just the wind, the one responsible for the great fire episode of the afternoon of October 15 and the night of October 16. This means that the extreme situation we are living in these days is recognized. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, I can actually prove it — I don't know if you can — because I was in a council, where I was born, where I am President of the Municipal Assembly and where I was able to see that violence was absolutely extreme. In addition to the enormous material damage, people died, some of them very close to where I was. He'd never been there for anything like that in no time. It was precisely the Independent Technical Commission that considered this fire the largest in the world in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government, led by the Socialist Party, already before but also after this fire, took concrete measures to enhance the interior, to combat desertification, the ordination of the territory and the competitiveness of these same territories. So I would like to ask you, honourable Member, and the PSD, whether you have heard of it, if you know the work done, for example, by the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior (UMVI )? [[PSD laughter.]] Do you know the National Program for Territorial Cohesion? Do you know the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program, which affects 19 interior councils?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u75	Mr. Pedro Coimbra, will you excuse me for interrupting you? The point is that the question is going through twice the normal time and it is already going over it. So I asked him to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, do you know, for example, the tax benefits for domestic companies, or even the support from Portugal 2020 for low-density territories? Finally, Mr President, there are only examples, among many others who do not belong here, of public policies led by the Government of the Socialist Party that meet the needs and proposals of this report and which we want to continue to pursue in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u77	To reply, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating conditions for your reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u78	Mr President, Mr Coimbra, I am grateful for the questions you have raised and start with the end, perhaps with the most anecdotal, which is your question about whether we know the outcome of the Mission Unit's work. The Mission Unit has produced 164 measures, has not implemented any measures, and the Prime Minister of the Government you support has not even received the Unit Coordinator. Don't! He didn't even meet her and replace her before he did. [[PSD applause.]] Look at the beautiful work that the Mission Unit has done, or, more importantly, that the government has done in relation to the work it has produced. There's no point in saying that the PSD reacted quickly when the report came because after 5 minutes it had to say something. It doesn't matter how long we've been reacting to the report, what matters is whether what we've said is true or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u79	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u80	What we said was that there were no means, there were no planes, there were no firemen, they reduced the means, they changed everything, they discouraged the work of all the operational conduct of those firemen. [[PSD applause.]] That is why, Mr President, there is nothing in your question to challenge what has been said and what we must take on is that the government has in fact failed to do well with regard to the fires of Pedrogan and the fires of 15 and 16 October. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u81	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The 2017 fires were an unprecedented catastrophe. The death of 113 people was their most tragic dimension. Now it is necessary to recover what is humanly possible and to learn. The ITC report we are considering today represents a valuable contribution in this regard. We therefore welcome all those who have contributed to it and I will not talk about gross cases which will certainly fall very well in the parliamentary rhetoric but which, in fact, have less political relevance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u84	A serious approach cannot ignore the exceptional weather conditions of last summer, but we also know that climate change will lead to the same circumstances that are likely to occur in the future. The reconstruction will be very long, demanding profound structural transformations. We are in areas, and I quote, « where the forest needs structural adjustments that do not coincide with point and transitional changes that lead only to short-term impacts», says the Report, adding that: « We are facing an immense territory, massacred in recent decades by the depopulation, the ageing of the population, the lack of forest management and the emptying of economic activities, in a gradual concentration framework that has led to the current situation of macro-cephalic characteristics and recognizedly unsustainable. » The Left Block signs below. However, the document does not fail to draw attention to bankruptcy, non-implementation or the inadequacies of various legal provisions, with a view to structural fire prevention. I can only recall, as an example, the shortcomings of the legislation applicable to industrial parks and interface areas between urbanized areas and forests. Let us bear in mind the criticisms of various provisions of Law No 76 / 2017, starting without technical support that justify them or unproven validity in the extreme circumstances in which they were tested. It is, as a whole, a list of criticisms and suggestions that require more and better legislative work, also in this House, a report that we must all consider with a sense of responsibility. October fires swept vast forest areas of small and small property. In all 2017, 90 % of the burning forest was bred pine and eucalyptus. If we limit ourselves to the October fires, the proportion is not so high, but still with a high prevalence of these two species. The Report points out that the fire devoured large continuous spots, monospecies or mixed pine and eucalyptus settlements, and explains how the configuration of the cups makes these species more propagating from the fires, dismantling the myth, so often repeated here, that the trees burn all in the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u86	It is also noted the role of brake propagation of fires performed by native species. As the Left Block has long defended, including through draft resolution No 609/ XIII ( 2 ). a ), the report points to the necessary strengthening of the planting of indigenous species, to the need to clean the areas under cover, to continue support to small owners and to promote aggregate management. Interestingly, this draft resolution of the Left Block, which was in this direction, with these guidelines, was down here, in January 2017, by PSD and CDS-PP, with abstains from PS, PCP and Os Verdes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest is not only a physical, economic and environmental reality, it is also a social reality. We will never forget that 93 % of the Portuguese forest is private, distributed by hundreds of thousands of small microparticle owners, owners who should be stimulated for this transformer process and not penalized by possible economic inability to actively manage their small parcels. It is crucial to support all forms of association of small owners that allow for aggregate management of extended spaces that confer rationality on ordering and economic gains. For years, the FIFs (forest intervention zone) were in this sense, but were left to define without perspective and without support for its operation. The forest management units ( UGF ), a new generation for associivism, have been created in the law a short time ago, but are being deleted from the official government discourse. Without strong incentives, particularly financial incentives, the constitution of UGF will be completely impossible to constitute them. Its constitution requires intense work of proximity to people and, in a relationship of trust, for each one to add tens, or even hundreds, of producers. The Standing Forest Fund Regulation has already been amended to allow this financing; now there is a lack of regular and urgent application. The forest management bodies (EGF) now emerge as the alpha and omega of the government for a positive transformation of the rural area. The EGFs are the open door to the rural area of finance and industry. They will probably not lack financial muscle, but will fail in order to make the forest more resilient to the fires because they do not reorder anything and sit in a strictly productive logic. There will only be profound transformations in rural areas if the small owners are strongly supported and won with this transformation. in this sense, the CAP support instruments (common agricultural policy) must have a profound reorientation. It is unacceptable, as the Report points out, that for structural prevention actions as of 2015 with the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme ), most of the approved support has concentrated on the large properties of the Alentejo, with low fire risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u87	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. In addition, it is estimated that only one third of the support was applied in actions directly related to fire prevention. For this absurd distortion it contributed to Ordinance No 134 / 2015, of 18 May, of the previous government, by excluding the risk of fire from the criteria considered and benefiting the large owners to the detriment of the small ones, precisely where the risk is much greater and where more support is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u89	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u90	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There must be serious change. If we limit ourselves to superficial changes, perhaps with media visibility, the tragedy will repeat itself. on this crossroads, we choose one side. With the populations, with the small owners, with the autoarchs, the Left Block will beat-CL will be a new policy for the forest and the rural world. This new policy, which we believe, is also the result of this report. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u91	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2 minutes we have for this debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission on the fires of October, and since we cannot address all the content and recommendations of the document, we will focus our attention on the analysis of the meteorological index of fire hazard. in these days the weather conditions were extremely adverse, influenced by hurricane Ophelia, which also determined the severity of these fires, having the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) planned, three days in advance, a meteorological hazard of extreme fire, based on abnormally high temperatures for the month of October combined with the presence of quite intense wind. Currently, the forest fire risk index ( RCM) adopted for fire management mechanisms is an inefficient hybrid system because it decreases the fire risk classes of the meteorological index calculated daily by the IPMA. The operational interpretation of these data is quite subjective and also appears unreliable. Because the occurrence of extreme weather phenomena in Portugal is, and will be more frequent, even outside the obsolete Charlie phase, due to direct influence of climate change, it is important that no meteorological factors are minimized and only the meteorological hazard index of forest fire FWI (FireWeather Index) is used, already calculated by the IPMA and widely used in the international community. It is essential that in Portugal we move from the intention phase and adopt concrete measures to adapt to climate change, foreseeing and preparing ourselves for their consequences in the territory, so that there can be a better allocation of the operational means and an early strengthening of the defence capacity by the people. Consequently, and already on April 13, the NAP will come to debate with a legislative initiative to replace the current fire risk forecast index with the meteorological fire hazard index, giving priority to this purpose, to the analysis of extreme weather conditions, which tend to intensify in the future due to the unequivocal changes in the current climate. This is a measure of adaptation to climate change but, above all, of protection of forests, ecosystems and the lives of people and animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u93	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : As much as PS, PSD and CDS want to give you, for more transmitted readings that would like to make this report from the Independent Technical Commission, the Report on Pedrogão and the previous reports and documents approved in this House, what they reveal are the effects that decades of right-wing policy have caused in the rural world and in the Portuguese forest, with structural vulnerabilities in land planning plans, energy, demographics, infrastructure and public services, which were very visible with the tragic fires of last year. Those who act to satisfy media voracity are very bad. The Portuguese forest and the people do not need propaganda and deserve more respect and serenity, especially from those who brought the country to this unsustainable and unjustified situation. A forest sown by depopulation, by the economic desertification of many areas and regions of the country, by the dismantling of state structures for forest, agriculture and the rural world, which translate into inevitable regional asymmetries. They are asymmetries that are indeed inseparable from the political options of successive depopulation governments — the PS, the PS, and the CDS. Yes, the parties of the depopulation of the rural world, which, with a posture and a manipulative speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u96	... pretends today to worry about territorial inequalities, however fleeing from the analysis of their causes, disguise their responsibilities, by virtue of their options and policy. Depopulation parties are responsible for the consequences of the CAP; the dismantling of the Ministry of Agriculture; the policies for closing schools and health units; the closure of posts and stations of TTCs; the closure of delegations of EDP or Banco de Portugal; and banking agencies; the difficulties of accessibility in the interior, particularly with the closure of hundreds of kilometres of railway lines; the closure of public services; the restrictive budgetary policies to which the Stability Pact requires, producing State budgets that increase inequalities. For the CFP, defending the forest and the rural world, beyond the guarantee of its ordination and the commitment to the enhancement of national production and economic diversity, improving income for owners, requires employment, public services, public investment and fair prices for agricultural and forestry production. It calls for a fair flow at the prices of small producers' production; it requires another agroforestry policy; it requires a CAP compatible with family agriculture and the rural world of the minifundio; it requires an effective regional development with investment in agricultural and forestry activity. Without people it is not possible to manage the forest. It is necessary to create jobs with rights and to defend productive activities. It is necessary to break with a policy that imprisons us in the well-known vicious cycle: less employment, migration and emigration, aging, fewer people to work, less consumption, less investment, less public services, less economic activity and, again, less employment...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u98	...to which we can now join the forest fires. In order to put an end to this vicious cycle another policy is needed and then the rupture with the options of PS, PSD and CDS, which brought the country to this brutal and dramatic situation. The CFP knows that it will hardly end the scourge of fires in its entirety, but we assume that much is to be done, because we are sure that the country is not doomed to watch this scourge year after year. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u99	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the work of the Independent Technical Commission ( ITC ), which was indeed a very valuable work, and here I would like to highlight two conclusions from the Executive Summary of the Report. The first conclusion, contained on page 13, is that, in the face of weather conditions, could and should have anticipated and prevented the expected; the second conclusion, which appears on page 15, is that fuel management in the sub-forest, on the landscape scale, is the only way to limit the development of megafires. It is also mentioned that the results of the creation and maintenance of buffer strips are dubious. In fact, the report also states that many of the homes that burned had no forest surrounding and others only had agriculture ( page 187). It also refers to the Report which, in Portugal, the type of vegetation does not influence the size of fires with more than 100 ha ( page 62 ). It says, moreover, that it was a gross error the Decree-Law No. 10 / 2018 and that it has no technical justification (page 189 ), as all the experts criticized and the CDS said from the beginning. It also refers to the fact that there must be a greater requirement in legislative production, which should be based on the best knowledge, and which is the example of a very poor public communication (page 190 ), even as the CDS has also said since the beginning, the report states that the reduction of distance between cups leads to a lower profitability of the forest and that this lower profitability will necessarily lead to greater abandonment, leaving what will lead to—and there is already news about this—that there are people abdicating from their property. Thus, the burden will fall on the state, that is, above all of us, that we are contributors. The Minister of Internal Administration said here today that the Government has made or is in progress all the amendments proposed by the Independent Technical Commission in its first report. It is appropriate to remember, Mr Minister, a very popular expression, very agricultural and rural, that I think I am adapted to this situation: "A lot of raisins, little grape! » Mr Minister, as the people say. It is that much legislative production does not mean good legislative production and that it is actually implemented on the ground. To conclude, Mr. President and Mr. Government members, once and for all, contrary to what he did in 2017 with what he called « forest reform », have to pay due attention to the rural and inland world and listen to the scientific community and the agents of the sector to review this subject on the basis of the best existing scientific knowledge, because that is the only way we can contribute to a better organized rural world and so that tragedies like this do not happen in the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u101	Mr Santinho Pacheco, of the Socialist Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The interior is what it is, for decades its reality is known and the costs of interiority are calculated. Reports on reports so far only help to alleviate consciences or to find pretexts, all kinds of pretexts. Even to try to get the devil back, now in the form of a fire. The nearly 300 pages of the Independent Technical Commission's report on fires in October 2017 are so rich in content and objectivity that they give for all kinds of readings, interpretations, accusations, summaries and narratives, as evidenced an individual witness, not subject to contradiction, and includes it in the conclusions, even admitting the Independent Technical Commission that are not immune to failures. from simplification to demagogy, political-party use and not a step forward. in the fury of attacking the government, nor do they account for the recommendations and conclusions of the Report on two essential elements of protection and relief, in accordance with the legislation in force: authorities and volunteer firefighters. [[PSD protests.]] It tells the ITC that it is essential to professionalise combat and first intervention. Who do you think are the recipients of this conclusion, except the volunteer firefighters? Oh, my God! Did you see who commanded the initial attacks?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u103	Now, are firefighters to blame? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u104	Why does the Portuguese Bomber League threaten to leave the combat device? Do we support this true ultimatum? Do you agree with him? And now, the active bodies of volunteer firemen are always the same, at the Bravo, Charlie or Delta phase, all year round, ready to go to the sirens call. As for the authorities, the President of the ITC said that what surprised him most in the October fires was the almost widespread absence of municipal services that could instruct the populations. Cito: « There are municipal emergency plans, forest fire protection plans, operational plans, but with more effective than doubtful and with little reflection on action ». Are you looking at how to collect a report looking for culprits and not solutions to the problems have these surprises? Oh, my God! In October, we were facing a firestorm that covered the entire Central region, the largest fire in the world that year according to the ITC. In many situations, there was no availability to fight the fire, concluded the ITC. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, we saw what happened in Gouveia, we were together that night. No force was holding that hurricane of fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u105	It has to be before!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u106	The response to the tragedy is not the hunt for witches who only satisfy petty party interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The forest, the rural fires are truly a national cause, because the interior can be different. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u107	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, to whom I give the floor, is now inscribed for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : with regard to civil protection matters, the report refers to important facts that should be highlighted. First, firefighting is the third pillar of a forest defense strategy. PSD and CDS-PP only talk about combat, because in structural and operational prevention — first and second pillars — they have responsibilities that they do not want to take on. It refers to the report that we have been facing a truly exceptional situation. The words of the commanders of the firemen present in the theatre of operations, who refer to never having experienced anything similar, cannot and should not be underestimated. There is a problem of trivializing alerts, which leads to disregard of the dangers even among civil protection agents. There were operational control problems and there were structural problems in fire detection. And finally, among other things, the report states that there was a very high risk alert which was disregarded and, in our view, there was a demobilisation of resources which should not have happened. I recall that on July 7, 2017, the PCP proposed the strengthening of the Special Device for Combating Forest Fires, the DECIF, extending its period of operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u110	in a political statement on 11 October 2017, just three days before this tragedy, we said : « It makes no sense to the government's decision to reduce the DECIF when objectively there are no conditions necessary for the reduction of the Device ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u111	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u112	Thus, and taking into account not only the Reports but also the views we gather in our hearings, the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that there is a serious change in the civil protection model and therefore presents a draft resolution with 20 measures for a new civil protection policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u113	You've run out of time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u114	The first, and perhaps the most important of these measures, is that, indeed, a restructuring must undergo an effective dialogue with firefighters and the general population. Any modification of the model made in cabinets, without the contribution and appreciation of firefighters, is a path to disaster. The civil protection system, its structure and agents, must be equipped with all resources — financial, human and material — sufficient for the missions they perform. It is necessary to draw up risk cards, rigorous,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u115	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u116	I conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, it is necessary to draw up strict risk letters in conjunction with higher education institutions, and on the basis of them to define the needs and means to be allocated. Finally, it is necessary, among other measures, to include civil protection materials in school curricula and to promote training, information and awareness-raising actions in the field of self-protection against risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u117	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u118	The tragedy we live in, the risks we run require a high-level civil protection system throughout the national territory capable of responding to them. The CFP, with its draft resolution, makes a contribution to this discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u119	Did Mr Duarte Marques sign up for further intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u120	Yes, Mr President, if I am granted the same tolerance that you have granted to the Government, I will make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u121	Mr President, I was not here at the time, but I take this into account, so you have the floor for an intervention in the time you still have.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report of this Commission is indeed a sentence on the Government. This report is very clear: the government has not done everything in its power to avoid a new tragedy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u123	The government has learned nothing from what happened in Pedrogan! The parliamentary left and the Government took advantage of the mourning to conceal their responsibilities. The PSD has always been drawing attention to the fact that mourning must be taken advantage of to avoid a new tragedy, and the government has ignored that. The Government is responsible for weakening the civil protection structure and is responsible, above all, for ignoring the technical reports of the National Civil Protection Authority and firefighters, as everyone has asked to extend the Charlie phase. That is why we ask: who decided not to extend the Charlie phase and keep the means that were available during the rest of the summer? Was he the Minister of Finance? [[Have shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u124	Was it Mr. Prime Minister? Was he the Minister of Internal Administration? This proves that the government has not done everything within its power to avoid a new tragedy. I admit that a tragedy could be inevitable, but what matters is whether politicians and the government have done everything within their reach. We already realize that for the government it is either the fault of the autarchs, or it is the firefighters, or it is the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u125	Sir, I have to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u126	Finally, Mr President, with a question to the Government, and I hope you will answer me in the final intervention: what does the government have against a council where 27 000 ha were burned? It is the third municipality in the country with more burnt area and no support. Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, do not signal that this is not true! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u127	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u128	The Council of Macion has no help from the government, neither for farmers, nor for entrepreneurs, nor for people who have lost everything, because it is a council that has not received a single support from the state! Aid will now be financed to some 100 % municipalities with the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Council of Macion...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u129	Stay out!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u130	... and others around there, which have served to increase the value of the injury at the time of the application, will receive support at 60 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u131	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u132	Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Minister of Agriculture, say: what do you have against the people of Mação? Oh, my God! Is it because you're a council with a PSD Chamber? Oh, my God! Answer: What do they have against us? Oh, my God! [[Have shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u133	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u134	I hope that Mação has the help that others have had, too, because it was the third municipality with more burning area in our country! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u135	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to understand that one thing is to count on the tolerance of the Bureau and another is to abuse the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u136	It's for a good cause!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u137	Mrs. Members, moving to the closing stage of the debate, have the floor, firstly, for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers : I request that, in the final intervention, they be able to answer a question which the Greens have asked, and which has ended up not being answered, which has to do with the question of psychological support for firefighters. The Greens have already asked this question in writing, but the Government has not answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u139	He won't even answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u140	Let's ask this question again and I assure you, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, who, if they do not reply today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u141	They present a motion of censure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u142	... under some circumstances they will have to answer, because we are receiving concrete complaints on the ground, and we want to give answers to people. We need an answer and essentially a solution from the government. On the other hand, and on the basis of a report and what we have already said so many times, there are structural causes that contribute to the immense dimension of forest fires. The abandonment of the rural world is one of them. It says the report that we are facing a territory massacred, in recent decades, by depopulation, by the ageing of the resident population, by emptying economic activities, and we add that, with great responsibility of previous governments, by the closure of public services, which have contributed greatly to this depopulation and to this political abandonment of the rural world. For this abandonment also contributed the rural development programme from 2007 to 2013. Compared with the period 2014 to 2020, there was a decline of EUR 270 million, a fall of around 25 % of funding for forest measures. This allocation of funds for forest measures from the RDP (Rural Development Programme) also accentuated regional imbalances and affected small-scale areas. More: forest policy was such that over the years the celluloses took care of the forest and the small owners became dependent, in terms of profitability, on these celluloses. Then that's what you saw. I then move on to the second structural problem, which has to do with just the villages and forest species. There are those who insist, permanently, that these forest species at nothing — nothing! — have to do with the size of forest fires. A little while ago, I found grace—with no grace, of course—to the intervention of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, who read only the first line and did not want to read anything more from page 72 of the Report! It is that the honourable Member was referring to a reference that the report makes to a 2006 study, and if she had read more lines had read in the Report that the spread of fires can be limited by changes in the type of vegetation. You see, Mrs Pedrogão's report was not enough to say what it says is adding anything else, but the honourable Member insists that it has nothing to do with this! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] Here! If 90% of what burned was an angry pine and eucalyptus, then we have to understand something. Look, you've never heard of this House, The Greens say that only the eucalyptus is that it burns. But the fact to which we draw our attention is that the immense monocultures of eucalyptus have, of course, responsibility for the size of forest fires. That's also what we're talking about. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the issue of climate change. We can come here every year to say that we are faced with phenomena of extreme climates, with hurricanes with the names we want to give them, with dry summers, with lack of moisture, finally, we can come to talk, always, repeatedly, about this matter, but we already know that it will be so. We have to prepare for the worst, because climate change is there! We have a responsibility to mitigate climate change, but also to adapt to climate change, and forest species, forest settlements are not left out of this. To create resistance to forests we cannot continue to expand eucalyptus and eucalyptus monocultures, as has been done. That is why the Greens fought so much in this House to revoke what the PSD and the CDS had insisted on approving and imposing, which was precisely the liberalisation of the eucalyptus through the regime of trees and re-arborization. It was a step that necessarily had to be taken. Even to finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u143	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u144	... attention to government communication. The model cannot be to support as much as possible those who were victimized by forest fires and, now, hit as many trees as possible. What has to be done must be with account, weight and measure of needs. The Government has to consider reopening the candidacy periods and taking action in this direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u145	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u146	On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and even to finish — need to be adequately prevented and properly supported. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance in the use of time. [[Applause from the Greens and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u147	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is marked by the blow by the PS and the PSD, with the coverage of the President of the Assembly of the current Republic, Jorge Lacão,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u149	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u150	... preventing discussion of the legislative initiatives presented, in particular the proposals of the CFP. The PS, the PSD and the President-in-Office may try to prevent the CFP's proposals from being discussed, but we do not withdraw them from the debate. The interior and the rural world need people who occupy the territory and give them life, need good public services and profitability of productive activities. The CFP therefore insists on proposals for increasing public investment and investment in public services, on proposals for support for family agriculture, for the protection of small agricultural and agroforestry producers, for intervention in the price of wood and for the flow of agricultural, livestock and agroforestry production. Forest planning requires the State rules and supervision, but also the means and support for implementation, starting with the forest that is owned by the State. We therefore insist on the proposals for the recovery and recovery of the public forest and for the general planning of the forest, on investment proposals in public structures and services to ensure supervision, but also on the intervention and support necessary to ensure forest planning. The cleaning of the forest must be a priority realized with scientific and technical criteria and foundations and not a pretext for threatening and punishing small owners or a charge that the Government transfers to the authorities and to the owners as if it were a mere individual responsibility. For this reason, the CFP proposes the repeal of legal standards, which are proven to be irrefutable or even absurd, such as those contained in Decree-Law No 10/2018 and advocates that the State concentrate its action on creating the means for cleaning the forest. The civil protection system cannot be the corner of the dark business of PPPs (public-private partnerships) that leave the country and the people to their own fate in critical moments, and much less can be a shock bag and scapegoat of political decisions that put behind firefighters and their associations responsible for government decisions. For this reason, the CFP presents proposals to release the civil protection system of political and partisan webs in which it is permanently engulfed; it proposes that civil protection agents be recognized the determining role they should have throughout its structure; it submits investment proposals to ensure that it fully disposes of the means it needs to carry out its mission and also to ensure that the State guarantees the protection it owes to men and women who put their lives at risk to defend other human lives. We defend all these proposals, insisting on some of them for the last time, because it is necessary to remove consequences from the political options behind this tragedy. And, let us not hesitate to say, the tragedy of fires has its origin in the options of the right-wing policy carried out by successive governments, PS, PS, PSD and CDS, over more than 40 years, as the report of the Independent Technical Commission confirms. The problems identified in that report are not only problems at the time of the fires, they are pro, and they are a consequence of the right-wing policy. The problems identified are the consequence of this policy that pushed the rural world into the rural world for depopulation and abandonment and that has left this territory to the light of disasters such as those of the 2017 fires ; they are the consequence of the policy that has left the forest and the small forest producers who have pushed the rural world to depopulation and abandonment, and that has left this territory as a result of the 2017 fires ; they are the consequence of the policy that has left the forest and the small forest producers left the forest and the small forest producers who have given up to the edge of the great economic interests, with the income for the forest disorder of the forest disorder that has multiplied the tragedy of forest fires; they are the consequence of the policy that, in civil protection, over the years, has withdrawn public investment over the civil protection, that over the years, the reports identify in the tragedy of 2017 tragedies, and, the means of combat, and the means of fighting, the means of the right-right-wing policy that has withdrawn the State of three quarters of its territory, which destroyed public services, which has disabled the state, which has disabled the state and has disabled the state, the state, the state, the state, the state, but has disabled the state, the state, the state, but has disabled the state and has failed the state and has failed the state and has the state and has prevented the state, the state and the state and the state and has prevented the state, the state, the state and the state and has been unable to protect and has prevented, the state and has, and has prevented it, and has to ensure, the rights, the rights, the rights, the rights, the citizens, the rights, the protection, the protection, the rights, the rights, the citizens, the citizens, the protection, the rights, the rights, the protection, the rights, the protection, the protection, the rights, the rights, the protection, the rights and the protection, the rights and the rights, the protection, the rights, the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the protection, the rights and the protection, the protection, the rights, the rights, the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights, the rights and the rights, the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the protection of, the protection of, the Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragedy of the 2017 fires is the most dramatic expression of the back point until right policy brought us, 44 years after 25 April. The PSD and, above all, the CDS can now show a lot of indignation, embrace, point to the side, that nothing removes their responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u151	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u152	I conclude, Mr. President. Even if the Christian Assumption Member has already forgotten what the Christian Assumption Minister has done, or if the PSD and CDS have read only page 148 of a 275-page Report, nothing erases the heavy responsibility of the PSD and CDS on the path that led to the 2017 tragedy. the PS soon serves to criticize the right-wing policy in speech if, in action and decision, bail or take even further the same options of right-wing policy that brought us the misfortune of last year. The positions and proposals that the CFP has brought to this debate point out the way to make and confront each one with the responsibility to contribute to the increasingly necessary rupture with the right policy. Let each one assume his responsibility on the way he wants to do! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u153	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would obviously like to say, firstly, that this is an important debate, that this is an important issue and that it was therefore beginning to greet the members of the Technical Commission who are attending the debate, congratulating them on the serious, technical, rigorous and independent work they presented to this House. Secondly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say the following: this discussion marks a frontier between those who want to discuss this report that the Technical Commission has presented to us in concrete terms, those who want to talk about something else, another report, and still those who like the report very much up to page 14, i.e. the hurricane Ofélia and who from there to the front know no more and then only take it at the end to try to speak of some of the conclusions, which, moreover, have not yet presented, contrary to what the CDS has done, no concrete proposals for the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This report, from this point of view, is very clear. It's, moreover, curious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what this report tells us. There was a major failure, an incredible forecast failure not to know that, in those circumstances, with that storm, after what had happened in Pedrogon, it was necessary to have all the means. That is, the people say, and they always say it, « stolen house, lock to the door». But you were not even able, after what happened in Pedrogão, to lock the door and take the necessary precautions. There was a forecast failure — the forecast was 11 in 13 on the Heinz scale in terms of meteorological risk. There was an organization failure—there was no state declaration of preventive calamity, as had happened in August. There were fewer means than those that would be needed — the Charlie phase was not prolonged. Question: were the means taken or not taken? It is an indisputable truth: there were fewer than 4222 operations on the ground. Why? Because I had finished Charlie phase. There were less than 30 air media available exactly for the same reason. That is, there were a set of errors that they could not or should not have been committed. This is a given objective. Which is extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this description, instead of taking responsibility, we are told that the blame lies with the policy of the right or whatever. In other words, it failed the forecast, failed the means, failed the coordination, failed the response to the requests, failed the initial attack, failed everything that could have been useful to fight this fire. But it's because of the policy on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u155	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u156	The right, in good time and in good time, presented a motion of censure and you should have accompanied this motion if you had a little bit of shame on your face! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Then, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, there is one issue that has to be resolved and the Minister has lost an opportunity to do so. This is about knowing, after the report has been presented, who is telling the truth. This is because we have two absolutely contradictory versions: we have the version that there has been no request for reinforcement of means — the version of the former Secretary of State who, moreover, has been watching the debate, not having participated in it — and we have the version that this request did not exist — page 148 of the report, if I am not mistaken, being very clear what is said there. The Minister lost the opportunity to say, once and for all, who is telling the truth in the midst of this story, precisely because we have two versions. Even within the scope of the Socialist Party, its leaders or its appointees, we have two versions: the version that praises the Report — we hear it today — and the version of the corridor, which says that the Report is a repository of lies. So we have to understand each other. What is the true version? Is that the one in the Chamber or what is said in the corridor against the report? And the Minister lost an opportunity to clarify this issue. It tells us, from what I realized, that it is the IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration) that will resolve this same matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u157	Would you like to conclude, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u158	Mr Minister, I believe that this issue has to be resolved politically, and that is why the CDS has made a request today for it to come to 1. the Commission — the Socialist Party has asked for a postponement; it is a right that assists it — those responsible, i.e. those who are facing, who are the lieutenant colonel, who says that they have failed and that there has been no answer, and the former Secretary of State, who says that this is not true, in order to clarify this issue once and for all. We want Mr Minister not to take refuge, as he has always done, in the IGAI or in other entities in order not to answer a question that is essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u159	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u160	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: we are constructive, but we have the exact notion right now that what has failed in the past was preparation. In August, Mr Prime Minister said: « We are dealing with the full». In October, what happened happened. And right now, firefighters don't know what they're going to do, nor what exactly their mission will be, and in what terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u161	Mr, I don't want to be unpleasant, but you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u162	The law of the Civil Protection Authority is about to present, the formation of the GIPS (Intervention, Protection and Relief Group) is insufficient, if you do not know the failures of the SIRESP, this is not yet public, and we do not have air resources. For this reason, the CDS called for a detailed debate next Wednesday on the whole preparation of the next fire season, because the impression we have is that you are again failing, are once again late. And that can't happen again, and we won't let it happen again. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u163	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the work of the Independent Technical Commission. The report produced is of great interest to the country and to address the structural problems of our forest as well as the rural and inland territories. I would like to begin by referring to some aspects which have not been addressed in the debate and which seem to me of the greatest relevance, as is the case that some municipal fire-fighting plans are clearly examples of concern for rules and regulations, but with very little concern about their implementation and operationality. This is one of the conclusions of the ITC Report. In this case it is important to realize — and it is good for the Government to clarify — what the responsibilities of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and Forests) as regards speed in assessing those plans, as well as their operational quality. It is not enough to say that there are or are no municipal plans, what we need is municipal plans that, in addition to respecting standards, they can in fact be operational and play a role in the defence of the people. It is also referred to in the Report that the difficulties of the municipal authorities in implementing emergency operational interventions indicate a problem of scale, means, vocation that raises the need for a supra-municipal, regional level, with political capacity to carry out this essential task of civil protection and territory. The report makes it clear that fuel management must be done on a landscape scale. It's the only way to limit the development of megafires with the size of those we've had in the last year. That is why this issue of management, of the organisation at supramunicipal level, poses an essential problem, Minister of Internal Administration. The report also makes it clear that the planning model and the risk aspect envisaged in the PNPOT (National Land Planning Policy Programme) were never operationalized through planning instruments and that the Sectoral Risk Prevention and Reduction Plan, which should have operationalized this risk component of the PNPOT, was initiated in 2012 but was soon suspended. Here is the concrete responsibility of the previous government, which should be assumed, but it is never. It is essential that we take steps on this path. in the same line, the Regional Plans of Forest Management ( PROF ) were suspended—it is known why and what interests have led to this suspension. There is a strong correlation, as is said in the Report, between the number of ignitions and the exceptional weather conditions. It's true. But I would also like to point out that there is a strong correlation between the number of ignitions and the quality of forest species. In fact, this correlation makes it clear a situation that is reported in the Report and which is very interesting: in the center of the second largest fire ever in Portugal, that of Arganil, there was a forest of alvarinho oak, chestnut trees, hazelnuts, ulmens, medroneiros, etc. , which saw less than 20 % of its area burned, without firefighters, without large-scale supports, and which resisted thanks to its structure of forest species, its ecosystem. It was the composition of this forest that increased fire resistance, with its core being intact, as referred to in the ITC report. Mrs. Members, in addition to the need to reorganise the fight, this is the key issue for the forest. They are not the cases and the homes, the fulanization of the "say he said" or the lies and lies! It is very important to mobilize the country for the cleaning of fire-fighting strips, but this will be a fruitless effort if the country does not move quickly into the planning and aggregate management of the forest, this is the huge mini-fund that has been abandoned by the public authorities, by the minimal state. Mr Minister for Agriculture, the establishment of the Forest Management Units ( UGF ) awaits a financial support framework that will boost them. Do not allow, Mr Minister, to happen to the UGFs what happened to the SGIF (Sistema de Gestation de Información de Incendios Forestais), the strangulation of some of the most interesting forms of organisation of forest producers. Now let's talk about public investment in the forest. It refers to the ITC report which, during the first period of the fund programming cycle, most forest support concentrated in regions at low fire risk. We need to explain why. in all the measures for the forest of the RDP ( Rural Development Programme), 36 % went to the center and north, while for the Alentejo they were 56 %. This distortion hampered the approval of prevention projects in the highest fire risk regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u165	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u166	I will now finish, Mr President. in the renegotiation of the CAP ( common agricultural policy) and in the programming of the RDP 2020, as stressed by the ITC, programme contracts should be financed with organisations or associations of forest owners and producers to ensure joint management of forest areas. It is essential that the CAP confront the problem of the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u167	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u168	I will now finish, Mr President. Finally, we need a new model for the development of rural and interior territories. These populations and territories have the same rights, they cannot be permanently pre-arranged, discriminated and impoverished. Solving this problem is a question of equality for which the State and the whole country are called and for which they must be mobilized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u169	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the conclusion of this debate, I wanted to begin by thanking the Independent Technical Commission, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, for the depth and seriousness of its work on the forest fires last October. But I would also like to point out from now on that there are those in this debate who are present with a single fixed idea: that the blame was entirely and exclusively for this government. In order to draw this conclusion, it is not necessary to read the Report! It is even counterproductive, because in reading it there is knowledge of facts, and the facts give a complex picture, incompatible with the simplicity of that thesis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be possible to justify this attitude as a mere product of political tactics. The biggest problem, however, is that this thesis only finds problems in the fight against fire and, in particular, in a supposed lack of means, which has not actually occurred, as has already been clarified by Mr Jorge Gomes. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u171	And no, Mr Telmo Correia, no one from the PS, and much less Mr Jorge Gomes, called the Report « repository of lies»! This is another one of the manufactures with which the CDS is poisoning this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u172	Why doesn't he talk today?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u173	But it is also appropriate to note the disturbing conclusion of the report, and I quote: « (...) simulations suggest that a wider availability of these means would not have had an impact on the development of events ». What more is needed to understand that prevention is the fundamental issue? That we cannot accumulate risks of this nature because we will hardly ever have a firefighting system capable of dealing with them completely? What, if we focus primarily on combat issues, will we all be creating the conditions for a future tragedy? This is because the circumstances of conjugation of extreme temperature, hurricane and dryness that occurred between 14 and 16 October last are extremely exceptional, but are not unrepeatable. The list of factors leading to this risk accumulation is vast and diversified:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u174	It's huge!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u175	... among others, the predominance of bravado pine and eucalyptus settlement, with accumulation of matte under cover; the absence of fuel reduction measures along buildings and industrial areas; the lack of municipal fire forest protection plans; the inadequacy of the technical indicators of ANPC in the assessment of extreme risk situations; the absence of preventive measures to protect and defend agglomerates; the persistence of high-risk behaviors, such as burns, even in situations of high fire hazard. It is absurd to think that all this results from the action of this government, not even only from the action or inaction of the State. It must be acknowledged that a decade in which the burned areas were relatively reduced has generated in Portuguese society and in the state an attitude of complacency towards the accumulation of risks. The main responsibility of this government is precisely the continuation, until last summer, of that same complacency and this must be taken up clearly. The tragedies of 2017 served as a painful awakening to the dimension of the problem. The real political responsibility for a government is to take appropriate measures to prevent the recurrence of this tragedy, and that is what is being done. Ironically, this government was not pleased with the more structural issue, which is that of forestry. A year before the tragedy in October 2016, the Government began the public discussion of a set of initiatives in this area, which Parliament would approve last July. These measures could not and could not have prevented this tragedy because they are long-term measures. It was mentioned in this debate that there is a delay in the implementation of measures. Well, there's been years of delay. Both the long-term structural measures and those which should limit the dangers already in the year are now under way. There is a need for a national effort to carry them out, which will prevent the occurrence of new tragedies in this and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u176	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u177	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is our responsibility and that is our determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u178	I now give the floor to Mr Mauricio Marques for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, here I leave a previous word to enhance the work of the Independent Technical Commission, which from here I welcome: for the PSD, both reports are credible and well-recognizable. at the end of this debate, the government and the parties that supported it made an attempt to demonstrate the absurdity. For the government and the parties that support it, the responsibility of the tragedy that occurred in 2017 was of the forest, it was of the owners, it was of the authorities, it was of all those who have nothing to do with them. It was just a mistake to say it was the victim's fault. They tried to make believe that the event was due to the lack of forest planning, to the lack of structural prevention, to the climatic conditions, only not to say that, despite all these circumstances that have existed for decades, there have never been fires of this size, never so many people died. The Government is now trying to justify all its incompetence in the fight against flames and in the lack of compliance with the legislation, which has already existed since 2006. The government is sorry for the lack of rural planning that has happened in the last 40 years. But who have been the rulers who have protected these matters in the last 40 years? These rulers have names and are António Costa, Eduardo Cabrito and Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u181	If legislation has existed since 2006, why legislate in a hurry in 2017? Why do you re-legislate in budget office for 2018? And why again legislating in February 2018, with very unwarranted rules from a technical point of view, as the Report itself states? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government and the bodies protected by it have failed in every way in the fight against fire. That is the main conclusion of the report that is being discussed today. It was the incompetence in the initial attack on the fires that allowed them to become great, that they became uncontrollable; it was not learned anything with Pedrogão ; it was they have underestimated the early warnings; it was all this and much more that led to the people being handed over to themselves, without any help from those who have an obligation to protect them. It is known that these are the conclusions of this second report that it is important to know what to do with the weaknesses identified in it. The Government claims that three quarters of the recommendations of the first report are met; however, the PSD doubts this implementation both at the level of combat and at the level of structural prevention. in the fight, two months from the beginning of the most critical period, no one knows, no one knows the strategy for the defense of forests and populations for the current year. in prevention, we witnessed large-scale propaganda actions, involving many rulers, as if structural prevention was compatible with such initiatives. The forest and its owners deserved more, more support in the preservation of the rural world, because only they can truly do so. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the memory of the victims of the tragedy that took place in 2017 required another position of the current government, did not deserve the political use that is trying to achieve. Although the government is hiding behind the known reports, the measures being taken are far from ensuring the safety of people and goods. The Independent Technical Commission itself doubts the efficiency, in forest terms, of the avulsive actions and their impact on the development of the rural world. It is important to assume all responsibilities. Says the Greens Ecological Party, one of the parties that supports the government, that the government does not respond to firefighters' issues. The government never answers difficult questions. Responsibility is not compatible with last weekend's propaganda. She would, yes, make an apology to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u182	The Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development now speaks on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragic year of 2017 unfortunately confirmed that the government's assessment of the forest sector at the time of its investment in November 2015 and the therapy contained in its Programme, which was feasible in the Assembly of the Republic, were correct. The aim of launching a profound forest reform was therefore immediately shifted from the programme to action and in October 2016, after a further work carried out by seven ministers ( Internal Administration, Environment, Deputy Justice, Finance, Economics and Agriculture ), it was possible to carry out a Council of Ministers exclusively on the theme of the forest — the first time, I believe, that this happened in Portugal. The first 12 diplomas which constituted the launch of forest reform were generally approved, triggering a process of public discussion, after which the Council of Ministers reconvened with the exclusive theme of forest reform on the agenda. in this second session dedicated to forest reform, on 21 March 2017, 12 diplomas were approved, of which six are legal decrees, affecting forest hoists, controlled fire, biomass centrals, forest management, forest management and associivism forest, and were referred to the Assembly of the Republic five more, on defense of forest against fires, arborization and re-arborization, register of rustic property and land management, which this Chamber came to approve, with the exception of the latter, in July 2017. Later, in December, he saw Parliament's green light with regard to tax incentives. The reform of the forest is in full implementation today, being unequivocal, as the ongoing preventive actions demonstrate, that Portuguese society is conscious and mobilized for this great national objective: making the forest a factor of creating wealth, employment, income for forest owners, while fulfilling an unplaceable environmental role in a safety framework for populations and minimizing the risk of fire. It is in this context that the Government analyses the second report of the Independent Technical Commission, whose members here present greet and congratulate the work done. And the Government is available, as was the case in the first report, to accept its relevant suggestions and complaints, either with regard to preventive measures or with regard to actions to improve structural support or the organisation of public services, which are going, in fact, in the sense that the Government is already implementing, either in the reprogramming of the Permanent Forestry Fund, either in the PDR or in the reformulation of the organic and strengthening of the means of the ICNF, which will increase the creation of a new public forest company - and I can announce here today, at first hand, that it will be referred to as "Public Enterprise for Development and Forest Management" and that it will be based very briefly in Figueiró dos Vinhos. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u184	Responding to some questions raised in the debate on support for affected farmers, I would like to stress how quickly and effectively it was possible to react and effectively and with the invaluable support of the authorities and agricultural and forestry organisations for the opening of competitions, for the analysis of applications, for the procedure of controls and payments, in a timely and consistent manner with the appeals and demands of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u185	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u186	We have concluded, a few days ago — and I refer to the Member of the CFP, because he probably has not yet had the opportunity to have these data available, the full payment (and I underline, fully 100 %) of the support to 23 746 farmers, whose list, if there are doubts, I am available to him, of more than EUR 62 million (sub-line, EUR 62 million) of funds... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ... exclusively national, and are in payment against the presentation of their evidence plus EUR 30 million, of which EUR 25 million is from the 2020 PDR and EUR 5 million is in support of the recovery of the burned vines, making public support more than EUR 92 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u187	And how many got out of it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u188	All 413 applications submitted in the VITIS programme were approved and, of the 957 submitted with investment values between €5,000 and €800 000, 751 are already approved. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] In addition to these support, 2732 tonnes of feed for animals, 160 tonnes of straw and hay and 225 tonnes of sugar were distributed which ensured the survival of 40 000 hives, ensuring not only the yield of beekeepers as the unplaceable and fundamental pollinating action of bees. in the forest sector, there are ongoing competitions for the hiring of more than 500 sapphires and their teams, as well as for the re-equipment of 40 other slag teams, some of which will integrate the new brigades of sapphires that are being formed at the level of the CIM(intermunicipal communities) in the context of extended cooperation with the authorities, which allowed us to seal, last week, contracts with 20 of these inter-municipal communities, aiming at the establishment of forest technical offices, thus strengthening the technical capacity at this level and ensuring better coordination of municipal forest technical offices, fundamental to the proper implementation of the municipal plans for forest protection against fires. Finally, but no less important - and with this I would also respond to Mr João Oliveira, because I admit that his hard and busy parliamentary functions do not allow him to follow the measures which are actually being implemented at an accelerated pace - as regards the request made recently by the honourable Member on the wooden parks, which, in his opinion, should be constituted, I must tell him that they are already constituted 26. In fact, they are already constituted 26, in Oliveira de Frades, Pombal, Póvoa do Varzim, Palmela, Castro Daire, Arganil, Ourem, Salvaterra de Magos, Mealhada, Oleiros, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Mangualde, Celorico de Basto, Guimarães, Vila de Rey.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u189	Are there any measures for wood?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u190	These contracts, which were sealed last week with several entities, involving authorities, various organizations and companies in the forest line, allow the abatement of prices due to excess supply of wood and, at the same time, ensuring the use and preservation of the noble wood of pine for the industry, which would otherwise be irreversibly lost, with injury to producers, industry and the country. The Ministry of Agriculture will support forest producers in 4 €/t, provided that the wood entered in these parks is acquired at a price not less than 25 €/t, and will support the management entities of the parks up to 3 €, 5 €/t of recycled wood. I am sure that, with the contribution of everyone, including of course Parliament as a sovereign body expressing par excellence in national representation, the conditions are created so that the tragic year of 2017 will not repeat itself, so that the risk of fire is progressively reduced and that Portuguese forest is increasingly constituted as a safe, economically profitable, environmentally resilient heritage and increasingly adapted to a climate reality that constitutes the greatest challenge of this and of the next generations. I would like to conclude by clarifying — and this so that no Member is left with no reply — Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, that psychosocial support for firefighters and their families is guaranteed through the ANPC and through the Ministry of Health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u191	The debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission for the analysis of fires that took place between 14 and 16 October 2017 in mainland Portugal is thus closed. The Bureau is associated with the recognition of the work and the congratulations to the honourable Members. Members of the Independent Technical Commission, authors of the report that we have been discussing and that were present here, accompanying our work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your particular attention to the fact that tomorrow's session begins, given the extension of the agenda which I shall shortly refer to at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u192	If there are no changes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u193	But before referring specifically to this agenda, I will ask the Secretary, Mr Alves, to state the legislative initiatives which have now entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u194	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1451 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In defense of the High School of Rebordosa, in the municipality of Paredes ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1454 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take steps to ensure the immediate suspension of shipments to the Towers of Security Loyalty, in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ), and ensure the right to housing ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1452 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of rare diseases and disabilities by promoting greater support and protection for patients with rare diseases and disabilities as well as their caregivers ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1453 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures at national and European Union level to reduce the presence of cadmium in agricultural fertilizers for environmental and public health reasons ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; and proposals for lein. 119 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishs the cyberspace security legal regime by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1148, which falls to 1. the Commission, 120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the national legal implementation of Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 118 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to create and regulate the issue and use of the identity card of diplomatic and consular agents, which falls to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-03-28.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's next plenary session takes place at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes, with several items on the agenda. We shall begin with an urgent debate under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, required by the PSD Parliamentary Group, on the health situation in Portugal. Then we will appreciate Decree-Law No 13 / 2018 of 26 February, which defines the legal regime of post-graduate medical training, designated as medical boarding, and establishes the general principles to which the proceedings must obey [ Parliamentary assessments No 55 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 54 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE) ]. The general discussion of lein.os 757 / XIII projects ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 38 / 2007 of 16 August approving the legal regime for the evaluation of the quality of higher education ( BE) and 813 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Requalification and construction of university residences ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 1449 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Proposals for measures to combat job insecurity in higher education institutions ( CFP ). We will also hold the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1391 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent regulation of the Organic Law No 4 / 2017 of 25 August approving and regulating the special procedure for access to telecommunications and Internet data by the Information Officers of the Security Information Service and the Strategic and Defence Information Service, and makes the second amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Judicial System Organization Act ) ( CDS-PP ), and 1392 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the process of classification of national critical infrastructures and the process of validation of operator safety plans by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System ( CDS-PP ). We shall then, in general, discuss Bill No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 is made in its current wording to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood ( ALRAM ). We will then, in general, make the assessment of Bill No. 799 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses (NAPs). Finally, without time allocated for discussion, we have draft resolution No 1455 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 3. the Legislative Session ( Vice-President of RA, replaced by the President of RA, Jorge Lacão ). There will also be scheduled votes at the end. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 46 minutes.]]
