ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. on our agenda, we have a debate under Article 64 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on the quality of the public services response, scheduled by the PSD. To open the debate, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u2	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: The next week well illustrates what we have seen here today denounce — the clear decrease in the quality of public services. on October 1st, Monday, a strike of the workers of the tickets and reviewers of the CP ( Trains of Portugal ) began. Consequence : closure of 85 % of ticket sales sites and allocation of rail traffic, with changes in the course of the users. Strike at CP allowed little more to circulate than minimal services. Only 28 % of trains have moved — they have been read all over the press. Also on October 1st, a new teacher strike began. Consequence : thousands of students without classes. These strikes and protests follow many others this year: nurses in June, August and September and with schedules for October; doctors in May; diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in May, June and July. Consequence : consultations, operations and examinations not carried out on the scheduled dates. These paralysiss of public services are added to the events in 2017, which affected several services, including service in the social security balconies, in the distributions of finances, in the shops of the citizen, in addition to health, education and transport. This is the state of public services in Portugal, it is the portrait of its degradation, being enormous the indignation and demotivation of employees, who see the collapse of the services from day to day. This degradation is visible and felt by citizens in the most diverse areas. Otherwise, we see: in the area of health, between mid-2015 and late 2017, the number of patients on the waiting list for surgery increased more than 30,000 and the average waiting time for the first hospital specialty consultation increased from 115 days to 121 days. Alongside this degradation to the user, the SNS ( National Health Service ) saw its debt rise by 40 % between December 2015 and March 2018. The late payments of the EPE (Business Public Entity) hospitals have also recorded a huge increase in the last two and a half years, from 458 million euros in December 2015 to 705 million euros in March 2018 — an increase of 56 %, I repeat, an increase of 56 %! The recent mission of more than 50 directors and heads of service at Gaia hospital in protest against the lack of conditions, which has been dragging for months, is another example of the chaos that the health sector lives these days. in the field of transport, Public Transport Claims increased 38, 9 % in 2017 — this was the title of several news reports on the disclosure of a report by the Mobility and Transport Authority, in June 2018. On average, there are 167 complaints per day. The CP leads the list of complaints with around 66 per day, but also the Metropolitan of Lisbon, the Carris ( Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa ), the STCP (Sociedad de Transportes Coletivos do Porto ) are the target of complaints added by users. Among the main reasons for dissatisfaction are the abolition of careers, the failure to meet the timing of stops, ticket prices, the difficulties in purchasing and validating transport tickets due to malfunctioning of sales machines and the poor customer service. Apparently, the complaint scenario worsened: in the first half of 2018, at the Complaint Portal, complaints against the CP increased 89 % and is the regulator himself who has doubts about whether the public service obligations are being met. The outrage also extends to companies that make the river connections of the Tejo, Transtejo and Soflusa, where there have also been suppressions of unannounced careers, overcrowded boats, constant delays. The railway 2020 programme presented two years ago has only about 15 % of the work under way. On the other hand, only now are the procedures for the purchase of new trains, knowing that the satisfaction of a new train order takes between four and five years. in education in 2018 it is estimated that 80 % of schools have a shortage of employees. The lack of vacancies, especially in kindergartens and schools of 1. the public network cycle, led in 2018 to an exponential increase in complaints, not being guaranteed the universality of access for children aged 4 and 5 years. How many of us here witnessed the anxiety of students and families, at the end of the school year, due to the teachers' strike at the release of final notes? in internal security, PSP complains of lack of means in large urban centers. There are reports of teams without cars to ensure proximity police, without adequate equipment and with obsolete computer systems. In March of this year, it was reported that the Lisbon PSP only has 28 patrol cars, being 53 non-operational. These failures naturally compromise many proximity programs, such as the Safe School. in justice, the denunciation of part of the judges who run the courts of first instance: there is a lack of basic materials such as paper or ink, human resources and serious deficiencies in the facilities, impairing their normal functioning. in prisons, there is a lack of prison guards. The latter are the result of an open invitation to tender by the former PSD/CDS government — 400 vacancies — and no other invitation to tender is provided. The complaints also come from the Constitutional Court that last month, addressing the Prime Minister, said it was absolutely necessary more money to carry out its mission. in the implementation of Community funds, rapid and rapid decisions by the RDP 2020 Management Authority have resulted in an interruption for more than one year in the opening of emblematic measures directed towards the growth of the agricultural sector, such as the actions of young farmers and investment in agricultural holdings. The post-2015 changes did not make access to funds neither more transparent nor more understandable, as was promised by the PS. What has been verified is an increase in the time of analysis of applications, inappropriate for the timings of entrepreneurs and promoters. in the economy of the sea, promising area with a new ministry created in order to promote this area, lack the measures that realize the huge potential of the sea as sustainable growth. Since 2015 the country has been waiting for the situation plans within the framework of the planning and management of the national maritime area. In three years, legislation on recreation nautical has not yet been published or approved in the specialty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Examples are extensible to all areas of government. The degradation of public services is visible and felt daily by citizens. It is the State itself that loses dignity and, in the eyes of its citizens, ceases to be reliable, fair and ready. And to what is this notorious degradation of public services due? What is the reason for this chaos that we have been systematically reporting and that has been accentuated? Well, it is due to the obsession of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance with stopping and delaying solutions, but also to the clear decrease in public investment. [[PSD applause.]] Between 2015 and 2017, the total decrease in public investment was 11 %, assuming values that would say scandalous, in order of 30 %, in areas such as health, internal security or transport. What the current Prime Minister said in 2014, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, which needed more public investment, more betting in the public sector, was unfortunately forgotten and took dramatic proportions. Moreover, to the first complaint of the Council of Public Finance, already in 2016, the Prime Minister answered in a rather inefficient way, even stating that « it is not true that cutting in public investment was the way to meet the deficit » and justified the fall in investment in 2016, with « a serious problem of transition of Community frameworks ». If this is, as it is justified, then that in 2017 the public investment was lower than that executed by the previous government in the years of the troika in which there were strong budgetary restrictions? Where is the bet on public investment that António Costa defended and wrote in his motion to the PS primarys in 2014? Mrs. Members, in three years of office the Socialist Government, supported by the Left Block and the PCP, can boast of one thing: champion of public investment and consequent degradation of public services, which despairs and revolts millions of Portuguese. In three years of socialist governance, supported by bloggers and communists, the portrait of public services is the portrait of chaos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u4	The chaos in public transport, the chaos in access to health, education and the functions of sovereignty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The degradation of public services is one of the weaknesses of the left-wing coalition that governs the country, which did not hesitate to sacrifice the common well-being to the most fundamental instinct of political survival of each party that makes up management. Portugal deserves more! Portugal deserves much better! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u5	Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, six were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u6	at the end of the requests for clarification by the third Member and then at the end of the requests for clarification by the other three Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u7	Therefore, in order to request clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u8	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, the compounded and bright air with which the PSD opened today the debate on public services is almost moving. But it's not glued, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with their real intentions, not so little, with the practice they demonstrated when they took up government functions. Do you have the potential to come here to speak of the quality of public services when they were, precisely, one of the main protagonists of the attack on these same public services?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u10	The real objective of the PSD and, for the sake of truth, of right-wing policy is to move from a country where we speak of users, workers and rights to a country in which only customers are interested, the exploitation and profit of some. And, therefore, whenever they had their hands in the mass, what they did most was privatizations, closures, cuts in funding, attacks on workers' rights. This was the case in education, health, social security, transport, so it was with the privatization of TTCs, so it was with the extinction of fregueses, so it was with the closure of courts, so it was with the closure of schools, and we could continue much more. The increase in quality that the PSD here comes to talk is what, Mr. Member? Is that what you did in the previous government, with the tremendous investment in public transport, the non-maintenance of circulating material, the gross costs for users, the reduction of schedules and careers? Or are the lines, now set out by the PSD, for health, a true declaration of war on the public nature of the National Health Service, transforming it into the chafarica of large private groups, with the increase in the number of PPPs (public-private partnerships), with the delivery of the management of public hospitals to private groups, with the generalization of the contractualization of private and social management in health? Is that it? The increase in PSD quality is what you did in education in 2011 for example? Is that what happened in the highest dismissal of teachers in our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u12	Are the thousands and thousands of public school workers, not only teachers and educators, but also assistants, technicians and administrative staff who have been truly dispatched to unemployment?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u14	It's the implosion of public school, how did the High Minister defend it? Mr Deputies, where the PSD proposes sub-financing and privatization of the alternative policy that the CFP defends proposes investment and valuation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u15	Where the PSD proposes increased user costs, the PCP advocates universalization of access to public services and the reduction of rates and rates. Where the PSD proposes outsourcing of services, PPPs and privatizations, the PCP defends the rupture with this right-wing policy, which does not serve the workers, the people and the country. And, honourable Member, are you talking about the motivation of public service workers? Have they promoted precariousness, attacked careers, attacked rights, attacked working hours, attacked everything and something else, and have they come up here to talk about the discontent of the workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u16	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u17	And now what will the PSD do? Are you going to change your position? Your political practice? Your ideological orientation? Are you going to abdicate right-wing policy? Of course he won't! It will, as always, "cry crocodile tears" and base its proposals and action on the destruction of public services which it has always played. Public services do not need and dispense well, honourable Member, the way to which the PSD wants to push them. They need, yes, a patriotic and left-wing policy, as proposed by the CFP, that enhances public services, that respects the rights of workers, that brings more investment. That is the fight that the CFP will continue today and always lock down. We know we don't count on the PSD to take that path. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u18	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, when this government, supported by the Bloc, the CFP and the Greens, began their duties, what he announced to us was that it was the end of austerity, that austerity had ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u20	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u21	He forgot to say that, while announcing the end of austerity, he also announced the end of truth as a technique of politics. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, it has inaugurated a new way of making politics, the so-called 'narrative policy', in fact, with the precious help of the Left Block, which already brought great experts in this area, and the CFP. The policy is this: it doesn't matter what's going on, as long as you create the idea that everything is okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u23	Do you know what the problem was? As the months and years went by, it began to be realized that there was a severe, severe degradation of public services. She saw herself in the schools, she saw herself in the hospitals, she saw herself - for example, in the railroad - in fact, we had the opportunity to see trains canceled, schedules always changing, trains without conditions, etc. And why does this happen? It's important that you guys. Members understand why, because all those who support the government are responsible. It is not worth saying here, especially the PCP and the Block, that they are not responsible for anything. You are only responsible for what is nice and good. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] For example, in relation to the 35-hour replacement, the merit is all yours, but if there is no one to care for a patient, that is no longer your problem;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u24	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u25	...is a problem that anyone else has to solve. You gentlemen are not responsible for anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u26	Exactly! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u27	More: it does not cease to be extraordinary than the honourable Members. Members, who in these debates are always talking about the past and never about the present, are so outraged by a past of pre-banking, that they have provoked, and, in relation to the present, they are always forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u28	You're so distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u29	They have nothing to say to today's public service user, they only have to tell the user four years ago. It does not cease to be extraordinary that, for the first time that they have governmental responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u30	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u31	... the PCP and the Block have nothing, but nothing, telling today's public service user. Did you ask where the CFP had government responsibilities? in the feasibility of this degradation of public services, which happens every time they vote and maintain each minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]] There is no minister, there is no secretary of state, there is no prime minister who is without the vote of the CFP! [[PCP protests.]] They can scream, they can scream, they can pretend indignation. The truth is this: without the PCP and without the Block, this degradation would not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u33	And I explain why it happens with your vote. First, because of the brutal cut in public investment. Public investment, with this government, has fallen far below the time of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u34	That's so funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u35	With whose vote? the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u37	Second, due to the seizures or the famous « drawer veto » or « signature veto ». It seems that now, in the Public Administration, nothing can be done without the signature of the Minister for Finance, which explains that many investments are no longer made. Why and on the basis of whose budget? the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. Finally, due to changes in schedules, which are made without anyone being careful to know if the services continue to work and if the patients continue to be treated. Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, in view of this, I would like you to answer if there is an alternative policy and if it was possible to have made quite different. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u38	You have a very selective memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u39	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, I welcome this on the subject that brings us today. Its initial intervention, like a radio programme that still exists there, was a kind of 'thematic mix'. But in the midst of this kind of "thematic mix" that brought here, it seems that I wanted to talk about the degradation of public services, actually exposing the degradation of the Social Democratic Party at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u41	Are Portuguese the'mixture'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u42	The degradation and tactics of the Social Democratic Party are "throwing the mud to the wall" to see it be something glued. Therefore, he spoke both a little about health and agriculture, and about transport, in fact, not saying anything about anything and trying to completely bleach not only the responsibilities of the past of the Social Democratic Party, but also the proposals of the present and proposals for the future, which can only aggravate public services. But when the PSD, and now with the CDS to the trailer, as was noted in this last request for clarification, speaks of public services, something that in the language of the right in Portugal has already been referred to as the 'fats of the state' — the honourable Member will remember that when they called the public services of 'fats of the state' — we in the country do not trust, and we have reason for it. When the PSD talks about public services, the first questions that come to the head of all people in this country are: "Where do they want to cut now? "What do they want to privatize now? "Where are they going to dig now? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” These are the first questions that come to the head of the Portuguese. in fact, the PSD relationship with public services has only two options: either destroy them or privatize them. The honourable Member spoke briefly of all matters, in this kind of 'thematic mix',...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u43	That has copyright!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u44	... he spoke of several areas, but forgot some questions. Mr Deputy, between 2010 and 2015, the cut in the budget of the National Health Service was 1430 million euros and the cut in transfers from the State budget to the budget of the National Health Service was 969 million euros. Sir, what did you expect with this court? What did you expect to happen to the public services and to the National Health Service with this court that you supported and that your party executed? What did you expect to happen to this court? Between 2010 and 2015, at the National Health Service, you sent 4389 professionals. In 2010 there were 124 387 — you can point out, if you want, because it seems that amnesia made you forget — and in 2015 there were 119 998, i.e. minus 4389. What did the honourable Member expect from this massive dismissal of workers in the SNS? What did you expect to happen? Tell us: from the point of view of the degradation of the public service, what did you expect to happen with the PSD policies? I am referring now to privatization. We know the business plan of the Mello Group and the Health Light, to which the PSD called « The structural reform of the SNS ». when we read this business plan from private groups, in which the PSD put its logo, we see a lot of criticism to the public service, but nothing about private management. Mr President, are you forgetting, for example, that the PPP of Braga is currently the one that provides the worst services in the National Health Service? Is it forgotten that the management of the Braga PPP, the private management of the Mello Group, currently has lists of waiting for a year for angiology, of almost one year for maxillofacial surgery, of more than one year for dermatology, of almost one year for endocrinology? There's an extensive list, which I can deliver. But, Mr, there is a selection of the data I want to use. Are you forgetting that there has been a brutal increase in waiting lists for surgeries with the private management of the PPP of Braga? Don't you have anything to say about the private managing public services? Do you have anything to say about the degradation that private people impose on public services and perform within public services? Or are you going to continue to defend the business plan for the Mello Group and for the Health Light? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u45	To reply, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u46	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions asked by Mrs Ana Mesquita and Mr Cecilia Meireles and Mr Moisés Ferreira. The gentlemen. Members always stop in 2015! The gentlemen. Members only talk about the past, but the Portuguese are interested in talking about the present and the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u48	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you, with the greatest calmness and not with the angry and aggressive air with which Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke, that we are counting on the past, yes. In fact, the Portuguese took account of the past and our government was judged in 2015 by these policies that you spoke about. He's been judged and he's won, look at it! It was the political project that won in 2015! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u49	It's amnesia!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u50	It is remarkable that you simply do not talk about the period between 2015 and 2018. They're not talking! With a week full of strikes—and you are begging the strikes for everything and for nothing—they have no word for the Portuguese who have difficulty accessing health care, they do not have a palate for the Portuguese who cannot catch a CP carriage, they do not have a word for the Portuguese who see their children without classes this school year. You know why? Because you are very upset that you are associated with a government that effectively cuts into public investment. This hurts - in your soul! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] How is it possible that Orthodox left-wing parties are associated with a government that has made the biggest cut in public investment? Take a good look! How is that possible? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u51	That is why you only speak from 2011 to 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u52	You're not ashamed of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u53	...knowing that we had an adjustment programme, knowing that we had to eliminate 800 km of railway, knowing that we rescued Portugal from this adjustment programme, and yet we were growing, we were reducing unemployment, and we never cut off the public investment that you did. [[PCP protests.]] I will give you a number: in 2016, there was a cut of more than 1600 million euros in public investment—historical minimum! ; in 2017, it grew a little bit but much below what happened in the years of the troika. How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u54	You've grown 25%!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u55	Mrs. Members, 2018 data indicate that there is already a deviation from what was planned by the government. In addition, the Government has lowered the implementation of public investment in October last year. According to UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) and the Council of Public Finance, we already have a diversion of almost 30 %. That's what bothers you! The gentlemen. Members can't have an explanation for this, they can't have an explanation for 1600 days of late consultations at the Guard hospital and 1200 days of waiting at the Faro hospital. This has no argument! How is it possible that during this summer, the health units of Poceirão and Marateca in my district, the Setúbal district — and I did not see Mr. Members disturbed by this - have they closed, have there been no professionals? You're responsible for that! It's your fault! They approve every year State budgets, and that hurts you in the soul!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u57	Do not deceive the Portuguese, because they know perfectly well that you are responsible for the biggest cut in public investment and for the degradation of public services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u58	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, Mr Pedro Ramos, made a speech out of the responsibilities that you and your party had in the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u60	He tried to eliminate the responsibilities that his party and the former government had in the degradation of public services. [[PSD protests.]] Between 2011 and 2015, it was the period when public services suffered the greatest attack since 25 April: they closed courts, dozens of courts; they extinguished meetings of parish; they cut more than 1000 million euros in the National Health Service ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... reduced the number of doctors; reduced the number of nurses; reduced the number of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians; and increased the moderate rates, diverting people from the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]] But let's talk about transport. In transport companies, you have reduced the number of workers, reduced the supply — only in the CTS have decreased by 25 % —, invested in rolling stock, invested in infrastructures and increased the price of transport licences. And all this to make the structures of public companies worse because your only goal was to privatize them all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They tried to privatize TAP, tried to privatize EMEF, tried to privatize STCP, tried to privatize Metro do Porto, tried to privatize the Lisbon Metropolitan, tried to privatize Carris. If you can go to the pulpit today to require better public transport services, it is because these companies remain in the hands of the State, they are public companies and are not privatized. And some of these have returned to profits, as is the case with EMEF, and many, or all, have increased demand, which means that we are on the right track. But let us talk about what has been done by the current government: 17 new shops of the citizen; the Simple has become a priority of the government, with 13 measures that are on the ground and that saves EUR 624 million to companies and 490 000 hours to employees of the Public Administration ; the IRS automatic, which has come to decomplicate life to 3 million families. As regards justice, the reopening of 20 courts closed by your government; the entry of 380 judges, more than twice as much as you did in the previous government. What about decentralization? The decentralization, with which you agreed, in matters of central administration for the metropolitan areas and for the authorities to make the public service better provided in the area of health, education and transport. We move on to health: this government has already restored 700 million euros of the 1000 million euros cut by the previous government ; the National Health Service has today more 7500 professionals than in 2015 ; moderate rates have been reduced to increase access to the National Health Service ; we have more family health units and more health centers ; there are more than 300 000 Portuguese with a family doctor than in 2015. Let's look at what was an investment in people, public administration workers, because you can't improve public service without having motivated employees. What you did in the previous government was to operate cuts and more cuts, obviously leading to a natural demobilisation of employees. I remember the program of extraordinary regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration, I remember the replacement of wages, I remember the defrosting of careers, I remember the increase of the national minimum wage, which has benefited many employees of the Public Administration, and I remember the replacement of holidays — tomorrow is holiday, because there is a new majority who has come to restore four holidays that you have cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u62	Tomorrow, October 5th is celebrated on holiday thanks to this majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. We go to the transport area: we have the 25% discount on 4 /NP 18 and SUB23 ; the 50% refund on VAT on monthly tickets for those who use public collective transport; the reinforcement of staff in EMEF with more than 100 workers and the public investment in railways, along the line of the Mininho, on the north line, on the Douro line and on the Beira Baixa line.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u65	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u66	I will conclude by asking the PSD a question : after all, what public service model does the PSD defend?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u67	The private one!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u68	The model that you defended in your speech, as opposition, or what the country knows of your practice when they were in power, attacking public services, degrading public service? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u69	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, in fact, public services are still far from responding to the needs of Portuguese. The problems reach virtually all sectors and all public services; the answer is far from the demands, but it is also far from the way the previous government looked at public services and, of course, the health area. As you will certainly remember, the policy of the previous government for health is unfortunately summed up by blind cuts in everything that moved, the closure of services throughout the country and a deliberate effort to fatten the business of private groups with interests in the field of health. Today, we all perceive the true motivation of the PSD for the health area: seeking to weaken the National Health Service so that the delivery to the private is almost inevitable, in fact, as happened, on other occasions, with strategic companies for the economy of our country. Therefore, Mr President, we have seen this film several times: the PSD seeks to weaken, seeks to weaken and then to make it appear that surrender to the private is inevitable. It is no wonder, therefore, that the only proposal of the PSD for the health area is summarized in the formula of the three Ps: public-private partnerships. As regards public transport, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, we also agree. Public transport continues to suffer delays, suppressions and reduction of supply, not to mention the lack of human and technical means that are pushing people away from their use, which in fact runs counter to any transport policy that is intended to be sustainable. in this framework and at a time when it is necessary to create conditions for people to opt for public transport, to the detriment of the use of individual transport, as also of Portugal, to be able to respond to the commitments it has made at the international level with regard to the emission of greenhouse gases and in the fight against climate change, railway is of decisive importance. The Greens therefore consider it absolutely essential to look at public transport and to look at rail. It is necessary to repair the rolling stock and, for that reason, workers are indispensable because, in fact, the 102 new workers planned for EMEF will not even compensate the number of workers who have moved to the reform and the 88 planned for the CP are absolutely insufficient. Therefore, Mr President, we also believe that the response of public services is far from what citizens are entitled to. It is true that there are problems in the health sector, and it is true that the response to public transport is far from desirable. The question I would like to ask you is this: given all that the previous government has done in relation to public services, does it not agree that, in large part, we continue to suffer the consequences of the passage of the PSD and the CDS by the government? I will help you in the answer, Mr President, by reminding you of four facts which I consider important. First, we had in the previous government a Health Minister who said that he was closing health services to improve Portuguese access to health care. Second : PSD and CDS spent four years closing public services and weakening the human resources of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u71	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u72	Thirdly, all the budgets of the PSD/CDS-PP Government had invariably a standard that prevented public enterprises and, from then on, the transport companies from hiring the workers needed to meet the needs of the citizens and the needs of the companies so that they could provide good public service. Fourth: until they reached the point of obliging the chamber presidents themselves to have to request permission from the Government or the Minister of Finance to be able to hire people who were needed to respond to the population. So, honourable Member, in view of all this, does it not seem to you that, to a large extent, we continue to suffer the consequences of the passage of the PSD and CDS by the government today?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u73	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. I know that the PSD is very upset when we refer to the previous government, let's know why. But this time, Mr President, it seems to me that it was inevitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u75	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u76	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions asked by Mr João Paulo Correia and Mr José Luís Ferreira. The discussion this week between the parties on the left was this: "Are we married or are we just friends? » — this was the discussion between VV. Ex.. «We are only friends, it is not enough to marry», «I even like him, but it is not enough to marry».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u77	Coscupileros!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u78	But you cheat, you want to fool the Portuguese! Because you married in an original wedding, with many weddings, in a shameful ceremony, of which even I, who had no intervention, know the date: November 10, 2015! It was a very embarrassing ceremony, without assistance, but you were married on November 10, 2015. More: they have renewed their vows!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u79	It's true! Three times!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u80	They renewed their votes on 16 March 2016, renewed their votes on 29 November 2016, and renewed their votes on 27 November 2017. All right, you gentlemen are saying you don't want to get married! You guys like this wedding, you want this wedding and you're going to continue this wedding.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u81	Such jealousy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u82	It is only that you do not want to take it publicly because you feel ashamed.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u83	It's weddings in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u84	They felt ashamed at the signing, feel ashamed now, because they feel ashamed of what the Portuguese are feeling every day... [[PSD applause.]] ... with the terrible manifestations of the difficulties Portuguese feel. And that's what you're worried about, sir. As I said, the gentlemen. Members stop in 2015. Mr João Paulo Correia referred to some of the measures that have now been taken, but if so, why do we have this social convulsion? Why do we have strikes? We have indeed had strikes, but strikes were not essentially because of public services; what we have today are strikes in defense of public services, in the courts themselves, in all institutions, with "in barda" resignations in hospitals, health centres. And why, Mr. Deputy? Because you have made an option and you have to take it. Initially, they have captured and cut into public investment and this court has an obvious consequence and is in the result of your policies, it is your option — the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party. This bothers you very much! As far as public services are concerned today, there has been news from the European Court of Auditors alerting for the slow implementation of Community funds. Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u85	Portugal is of the countries that have better implementation! He's missing the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u86	Mr. Prime Minister, to justify the bad public investment in 2016, said that it was a matter of transition, « The thing went wrong because in fact we had a difficult transition ». Today's data tells us that they are about to run EUR 8817 million, alerting for slow execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u87	What about the other countries? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u88	Mrs. Gentlemen, whose responsibility is it? Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we are not ashamed of what we have done, we are very proud! We are very proud of what we have done! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] We have rescued the country and, therefore, we have the country to grow, we have the country with less unemployment, and we are very proud! We have no problems in assuming it, and the Portuguese, by the way, also liked our work. You think well—and that's why you're worried, and that's why they made this wedding ashamed: if Pedro Passos Coelho ruled as governor, with austerity and difficulty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u89	Oops, oops! I've already cut all the pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u90	...and if you managed to grow the country, imagine with another setting! Imagine with another conjuncture! That is why you have made this wedding which shames you every day. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That is why your Secretary-General and Mrs Catarina Martins always come to say at the end of the week that they are not happy, but here, every day, you like the wedding. [[Continued protests of BE and PCP.]] Do you love this wedding and — do you want to bet? — they will remain married until the end of this legislature, but if God wishes, I hope not, I hope the Portuguese do not give you the opportunity to remain married from next year. [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u91	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A debate on public services makes so much sense that it has not been a week since we did not have it and it is important to review it so that the proposer does not forget the state in which he left Portugal. We are faced with a timid exercise of apologizing to the Portuguese or an act of contrition of those who have done so much wrong to the country. The idea is that the financial situation will never cover the vain attempt to privatize public transport or will allow the closure of courts, the aggregation of fees, the alienation of TTCs, the extinction of health services, the attack on public school, the abolition of railway lines and even the abandonment of the investment strategy reflected in Portugal 2020, which is now so demanding. The public service can be built beyond the state, but there will never be public service if it is done against the state and against the interests of the people, with the unique prospect of the benefit of the private, with guaranteed revenue and paid by the taxes of the Portuguese. When the PS assumed the responsibility of governing, with the support of the parliamentary left, there was a goal at the centre of political action was to re-enforce the State so that the levels of public service could be recovered. This is how 20 closed courts were reopened and 380 judges and 400 judicial officers were admitted. This is how an investment of EUR 450 million was programmed in infrastructure and equipment for the security forces. This is how more than 1000 operations were admitted, 250 cars and 7 aircraft were purchased for the fire fighting device. This has strengthened the diplomatic network, with 57 new workers, modernized the services, promoted teaching Portuguese abroad and opened 31 new immigration support offices. That's how it was put back in the City Shops, with 17 new shops, if created the single digital address, the IRS (tax on the income of natural people) automatically, the Simplex + and the Company Space. That is why he invested again in Carris, STCP, the metro of Lisbon, the metro of Porto and the forgotten Transtejo and Soflusa. This is how the investment in railways, with electrifications and rehabilitations, was resumed, and a plan is under way to ensure the supply of rolling stock sufficient for the country's needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the special requalification and mobility regime was extinguished, if the use of precarious work by the State was limited and the recruitment restrictions in the Public Administration were eliminated, while the 35-hour working time was restated, wages were recovered and careers were frozen. This is how the capacity of the SNS was strengthened, with the hiring of 7500 new professionals, the competition was opened for new doctors specialists, the moderate rates were reduced, 24 new USF (Family Health Unit ) were created and 79 health centres were approved. We have also launched the national programme for territorial cohesion and we are committed to decentralization of competences, which places the services closer to people. In three years, we have done this and much more and still need to be done. It is not enough for us in the PS to launch the country that the right has put on hold, interrupting this great work called Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u93	Mr President, two Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u94	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u95	You have the floor to make requests for clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u96	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, today's debate has as its theme the evaluation of the quality of public service and I would like to focus on education. As the honourable Member has now accused us, the CDS, and the right in general — and indeed, on a daily basis — of having destroyed public school, he proposes that we go through some indicators that relate to the quality of public school from 2015 to here. And I asked him for some patience for the numbers I'm going to bring him. For example, UTAO investment figures, dated July 2018, tell us that practically there has been no investment in education, 7 % of budget implementation compared with 24 % in the previous year, which in any case was already lower than in 2015 in absolute value. Perhaps that explains—maybe! — what happens, for example, in the technological modernization of schools. I don't know if you remember that this was a policy very close to the government of José Socrates and again deserving of extensive lines in the Socialist Party's Government Programme. What do we see? According to data from the Ministry of Education, the number of students per computer with the Internet increased from 3, 9 in 2015 to 4, 7 in 2017. It should be noted that there are fewer than 42 000 students in the system and therefore only by this means should there be an improvement in the indicator. We can also talk in school equipment, in the schools themselves. For example, if you are visiting a 2nd grade school. o is 3. the cycle has one of two hypotheses: or has no work done, although there are always good principles on this, or, then, probably, until it finds a work, but it was financed by the municipal chamber and not by the Ministry of Education. If, by chance, you visit a secondary school, you also have one of two hypotheses: either the school has already been requalified in the School Park — but there I wish you good luck, because if it is hot you can't connect the air conditioning, because there's no way to pay the bill, and if it's, by any chance, it's better to go well given, because there's no money to pay the heating — or, then, there's no work done — see! — because it is not in the plans of the Ministry of Education. If, for example, we are talking about video surveillance, the cameras are actually there, they are not doing anything, because there was no money to pay for the contracts, which were not renewed. But we're not just going to talk about equipment, we're going to talk about the main, the professionals in education. In fact, Mr President, more 7000 teachers have been linked, you are absolutely right, and it would be hoped that they would therefore be happy and motivated at their workplace. But if, by any chance, it's this week at the schools, they're not there, they're on strike. That is why I do not think that this linkage is an indicator of great motivation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u98	And at other times they won't be there either. You know why? According to data from ADSE (Institute of Protection and Assistance in Disease, I.P. ) , there are 6000 teachers who have medical discharges of more than 60 days. Perhaps, there is also a problem here that numbers only, procedurally, do not solve. What about employees? Well, as far as employees are concerned, the previous government has hired 2800, this government has hired 2500 ; in fact there are more officials. What's going on? Newly medically low. And without forgetting the 35-hour working time. So maybe the numbers aren't here either. Finally, as regards inclusive school, which is a flag of this government, what do we know, according to data from the Ministry of Education? We know that in 2017 / 2018 the number of technicians in schools to support these students decreased 11%; we also know that the number of hours per month of technicians in the centers of inclusion resources decreased by 1, 3 % and we know that the number of teachers to work in early intervention decreased by 5 % compared to the previous year. however, in this case, unlike general education, there are more than 7% of targeted students. More students, less resources, this must be the inclusive school...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u100	Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether, quite frankly, as you said in your speech, there in the rostrum, you can say that this parliamentary majority has done more for public school than for the previous government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u101	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Pimpão, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I would like to congratulate Mr Luís Testa and thank him for his contribution to a debate that is of greatest importance to the citizens, who are concerned about the quality of the public services response and the efficiency of that same response. Mr President, I would like you to have a word not only about the past, when you referred to the attacks on public school, but about the present and the future of public school. Mr President, on this subject we are witnessing every day an educational community that faces serious difficulties. We have the directors, teachers, parents, employees and city officials concerned about solving problems of lack of conditions in schools instead of focusing on improving the learning process of our students. These difficulties are felt at the level of human resources. When we talk about the motivation of people working in public schools, we need to be aware that today we have less than 80% of operational assistants than we had in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u103	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u104	What is your response to these school needs?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u106	When we speak in inclusive education, a diploma was approved, even during school holidays, which obliges the resources that schools, objectively, do not have! And we warned about that. We are then talking about the new technologies — and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has already spoken about it — but we have captured the school budgets and we have made the computer material completely obsolete and the school group directors have no way of dealing with the innovation and maintenance of this same computer park. We then have the public investment, which has already been talked about by all the stakeholders. We have degraded schools and we have a set of schools whose works, proposed by the various parliamentary groups, have already been adopted in resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic and we have seen the greatest public investment in public school. Therefore, it is a bit counterproductive to have a speech and then, in reality, we will find that there are schools throughout the country that need requalification. In 2017, 50% of the budget for investment in our schools was to be implemented. Mr Luís Testa, I would like to have an answer to this question. As for the teachers, we have already talked about the teachers and we have had the opportunity to tell the Minister of Education that we have dismotive teachers, teachers who feel discriminated against, teachers who have been deceived by the lies of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u107	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u108	Tomorrow, October 5, is a holiday, but for thousands of teachers it is a day to manifest against public policies in the area of education in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u109	Will the PSD be there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u110	The instability is installed at school. This week, several schools were paralyzed and thousands of students were left out of classes. What is the response that the Socialist Party has to give to these thousands of students and thousands of educational officers who are being affected by the policies of this government in the area of education? in higher education, we have missed students waiting for scholarship, and they will only have it in 2019 if they have it! in scientific employment there are problems behind problems. The legislative contract signed between the Government and higher education institutions was an agreement that was not met, creating instability in higher education institutions. We have capitulations and cuts in investment from basic education to higher education. So, Mr Luís Testa, the question remains: do you or do you not recognize these real problems in the area of education? Should investment in education or not be a priority for the development of our country and for the future of new generations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u111	In response to both requests for clarification, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u112	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, Mr Pedro Pimpão, will certainly not lead me to the harm that answers you together, because basically the theme was the same. These are questions about education addressed to a Member who certainly does not specialize in education, but I know what is common sense and what we all know. Mr Pedro Piimpão, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, demotivated teachers? Oh, my God! VV. Do they talk about demotivated teachers? Dismotivated with what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u113	With the career and the bond!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u114	With the ability they have today to require more benefits for their class? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We're talking about basic rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u115	Continue, sir, that I am recording!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u116	We are talking about basic rights that were not guaranteed to them in times when VV. Ex.s ruled. Let's remember... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let's remember that in VV time. For example, teachers were not really teachers; they were hired annually, with a precarious work relationship with the state, of the most basic that existed, and were almost always placed out of time. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, speaking of teachers as state workers is only possible today. As for works in schools, we have 500 schools in place, systematically, which, in fact, you can consult in all regional pacts. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] There are 200 new psychologists in schools, there are specialized technicians placed in time and hours, we have more social action and school textbooks are free of charge for 500 000 students. These are the facts that VV. Ex. I don't know! But, truly, your goal is not that. I understand your intention to deny public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u117	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u118	... national education, the work of teachers and the merit of students. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It's just that your goal is not good public school. Your goal is to promote private education, supported by Portuguese taxes, paid by everyone for the benefit of some. Only when that's the case is VV. They would be happy with the national school. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u119	On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what was the policy of de-investment and decapitalization of public services, which today the PSD brings the debate to alleviate its memory, in a manifest lack of shame and even shame, the fact is that the current government has come to strengthen the social state, sovereign functions and public services. from there it continues, daily, a task of reconstitution and consolidation of public school, a sector that, in the past, was so martyred by VV. Ex. and in which, now, public employment has grown, with more than 3,500 teachers linked in 2017, estimating the same number in 2018. The government fights without hindrance in all sectors of the Public Administration, and also here, where 7000 school workers are already in PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme of precarious linkage) and 46 000 teachers have already seen or are in the process of seeing the defrosting of their careers. If this is not to strengthen the state of public school, I don't know what it will be. We are actually on the right track. VV. They were on the wrong track and « on the wrong side of the night», in a sector where coverage levels are now expanded, with works in more than 500 schools, also in collaboration with the authorities, qualifying answers, in an effort to recover the lost time of stagnation of the public school network. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the strengthening of equity at all ages is a constant concern of this government and is central to the Socialist Party, with the extension of the network and coverage of the pre-school, creating 5,000 vacancies, aiming at the universalization of the pre-school, with 220 new rooms for the pre-school. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to overcome the shortage of adult qualifications. VV. They decided to interrupt adult education, interrupt the New Opportunities, and we resumed this program, now called Qualifica. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have doubled by 2015 the number of students enrolled and we already have 303 Qualifica centers. Let me tell you about human resources, the human resources that you have brought out of the education sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u121	You got them out of public school!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u122	There are 500 workers, this academic year, operational assistants, in extraordinary contracts, and a global increase in the system of 2000 employees in this category. We must remember that, on the right hand side, there has been a breakdown of teachers of 15 % between 2012 and 2015, a breakdown of 22 600 teachers, a breakdown of 550 teachers in higher education and a reduction of one-quarter in the staff of scientific research, i.e. less 25 % during your government. In three budgets of the Socialist Party, the school received a boost of EUR 633 million instead of what happened in your last three State budgets, in which the school suffered a cut of EUR 440 million. I think it is obvious what politics is being done today. We had to talk about the past, because the past often conditions the solutions of the present and the future, but I have been talking about what is happening and this investment that is reflected also in the State budgets. I still wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is recognised today that we are much better than in 2015 also at the level of administrative modernization: we have more public services, more human resources and more modernization. with you was less: less human resources, less modernization and innovation and less employment. In fact, we have already opened 17 new shops of the citizen — until the end of the legislature will be another 17 — which are the first face of the state before the citizens and which provide nine million services per year. With the PSD and CDS government in four years, we opened only five stores and closed the Restorers. This reveals your vision of modernization of the Public Administration. We have also Open citizen spaces: 61 in 2016 ; 129 in 2017 ; 42 in 2018. We have an implementation rate of 80 % of Simplex in 2017 where we can highlight innovative measures such as the Pension Simulator, which has already done 600,000 simulations. Therefore, Simplex is, in fact, the backbone of the modernization system, which, incomprehensiblely, VV. They froze, precisely in a year in which this programme was awarded by the United Nations. To finish, let me tell you about justice, a sector that VV. They have invested, decapitalized and closed courts, and where we reopened 20 courts closed by the PSD and the CDS and 43 trials of proximity, which now benefit 880 000 people, and also mention the concern we had with the judicial officers, with 400 new judicial officers—and also 300 more firefighters, an increase of 15 %—and the lowest rate of procedural suspension of the last 10 years in the courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not part of our DNA to confuse state reform with the reduction of public officials or the closure of services essential to citizens. With the PSD, this reduction and these closures were always « cost what it costs », and it cost a lot, cost the Portuguese, and cost Portugal a lot. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u123	Madam Member, your intervention did not raise any requests for clarification, so we proceed to the following intervention. Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this legislative agenda of the PSD we must not forget that the previous Government of the PSD and the CDS had prepared the so-called Guide for State Reform, which we will first call the cartel for the destruction of the state and public services. for what we can prove here today, the defeat of this government of the PSD and the CDS — of bad memory, by the way — has not forever removed the ideas, conceptions and objectives of that time. You don't rest until you give up everything that is vital and everything that makes profits to the hands of the private. For the CFP, public services are an instrument of realization of social rights without which it is not possible to develop the country, they are an essential factor of development, progress and social justice. Good public services, with workers with decent careers and wages and in number corresponding to their needs, with modernized buildings and equipment, to operate with quality and accessible to all citizens are a factor of development and progress. That's undeniable! Of course, the problems of public services have not been created yesterday, they have their origin in the choices of successive governments that have brought us to the degradation of public services. The CFP therefore advocates an alternative policy that places public services at the service of the country and of the people and not of the economic groups, of the large economic groups; an alternative policy that says no to the weakening of human resources and essential public services materials such as health, education, justice, transport, creating a state impoverished in resources and resources and deprived of competence and knowledge; an alternative policy to combat promiscuity between public offices and private interests, for the rights of workers and populations. It is that when the degradation of public services is deliberately promoted, what is being done is to weaken and suppress all the social rights of Portuguese people; when the degradation of public services is deliberately promoted, what is being done is to lose the right to health, education, social protection, justice, culture and mobility; when the degradation of public services is deliberately promoted, what is being done is to hand over to the private what is the responsibility of the State to do. It is an alternative policy that we need, yes, an alternative policy in the National Health Service that clearly demystifies the thesis that the State does not have the financial means to guarantee the SNS. The defense of the SNS is a national but also a civilizational imperative. What the PSD is looking for is to discredit and destroy the SNS, opening even more doors to privatization, with the gradual transfer of care provision to private groups. Privates are devoted only to a small portion of health care, they are dedicated to those who are economically more profitable. It is never too much to remember that all the health expenditure that people have, except for moderate rates, are revenues for private entities. We need an alternative policy in education that values public school, the freeness of school textbooks from all compulsory education—which is 12. the year and not the 9. the year—, the democratic management of schools, the professional and social dignity of the workers of education, the decrease in the number of students per class, the end of the national exams. We do not need what the PSD invokes, on behalf of the so-called principle of freedom of choice, that is to refer the public school to a complementary role of private education. That's not the way! It is in the appreciation of the public school that the action and intervention of the State should be focused. We need an alternative policy in the public social security system that assumes the commitment and replacement of lost rights, through the replacement of the universality of the family allowance for children and young people, the annual increase of reforms and pensions and of all social benefits, which implies the adoption of short- and medium-term measures to ensure the strengthening and its sources of financing and the replacement of rights. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, they are going around that, whenever public services are placed in the hands of the private, they are witnessing the degradation of public services, the growth of public expenditure and the increase of costs paid directly by the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must break this path and make the choice for an alternative policy of investment in public services and of valorising its workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u125	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau wished to inform the House that it was possible that the votes would take place before noon, and it would therefore be for the parliamentary leaders to inform their Members and Members of Parliament about this. We will see if this possibility is met. I now give the floor to the next speaker, who is Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Dias, Mr. PSD and CDS members have not yet realized that uneased awareness is the worst remedy against insomnia. Therefore, we are faced with a rebate of consciousness or an exercise of exorcism that we do not perceive. It seems to us, at least, strange and bizarre this PSD marking. And I say strange and strange because I have no other way of qualifying such an extemporaneous and unsquared interpellation in time, in view of the present reality. We did not realize whether the PSD intends to carpify harm regarding the quality of services between 2011 and 2015, in which it frozen therapeutic innovation, in which it increased the moderate rates, in which it increased the expenditure of families, in which it cut EUR 1000 million in health and in which it withdrew income to families, or, on the other hand, in a view and in a wrong way, referring to the period between 2015 and 2018, in which more 9000 health professionals were hired, in which the family doctor was given over 500,000 Portuguese and in which he invested in new health centers and new hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the quality in the response is a multidimensional concept and in the care processes the improvement of care provision is clearly evident in the last three years, an improvement, from the free access to the National Health Service; an improvement in the adequacy of care, with a reinforcement in primary care, with the new oral health program, visual screening, more nutritionists, more psychologists, more family physicians; an improvement in access and equity, with more USF than in 2015 and with about 94% of the population covered by a family doctor; an improvement now also, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in offering hospital care to the home.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u127	You have to listen to people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u128	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese have regained confidence in the National Health Service: better access to emergency services, with more than 300 000 emergency episodes, which are not beyond the reduction of moderate rates; more 107 000 first consultations than in 2015; more 30 000 scheduled surgeries; more 5, 7% outpatient surgeries. Now, of course, Mrs. Members, such an increase in care production would certainly lead to the increase in demand by the Portuguese. [[PSD laughter.]] More access and better conditions, of course, lead to an increase in the waiting lists, proportionally — I repeat, proportionally! [[PSD protests.]] I'm glad you did, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u129	Good, no! What about the government's promise?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u130	... because we want more Portuguese to have access and we are not concerned about the populist manipulation that you make of reality for election purposes. In 2016, 677 000 surgeries were performed, and in 2017, around 684 000 ; the scheduled response times were respected in about 86% of patients ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u132	... in 87% of the 49 hospitals of the National Health Service response times were met for first specialized consultations with normal priority. This is proof that the Portuguese have regained confidence in public health services. Mr João Dias, that is why we are asking what perspective is that Mr. PSD members come to talk about the quality of their health services. In what perspective do you intend to put forward new proposals, in addition to the delivery of the SNS to the private? Will it be in the perspective of anyone who wants to depreciate and exhaust the National Health Service to hand it over to the private, or, on the other hand, to strengthen its pillars of sustainability, transparency and quality? Mr. João Dias, we know that electoral time is very important for the PSD and for the CDS and so the disruption is so much that electoral time overlaps with discernment. For us, the Socialist Party, and for this government, there is a time beyond time and this is the time to offer better conditions to all Portuguese and equally. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u133	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to talk about a pressing issue of public services in our country. But for those who, in fact, are listening to this debate, it seems that on that side of the benches what is drawn is a pink portrait of a reality that does not match and that the Portuguese know that it is false. I am referring in particular to the question of health services. If not, we see: we have a reform of primary health care that is stopped; we have delays in continuous and palliative care that are tremendous; we have the status of the caregiver that is blocked; we have the absence of investment in infrastructure and equipment; there are mass casualties and strikes. This is factual, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That's what we see. Members, in a painful contortionism, come to denounce, concerned, in the committees, but then, in plenary, they are silent and nothing says about this painful reality which reveals a social insensitivity of this government which, indeed, has a Minister of Finance and State Secretaries who are manipulated. Therefore, we do not understand how you pay for this social insensitivity of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u136	As I said, it is painful to see today the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens in this contortionism. In fact, perhaps, it is to be more supportive of this malabarism reported today in which Portuguese hospitals are actually doing everything to ensure quality care, such quality care that you still think exists but that, in fact, Portuguese people realize that it is not possible to maintain. You, every day, want to say and proclaim that you support professionals, but then here, when necessary, what you are doing is sanctioning government policies that actually lead to dissatisfaction and despair of health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u137	O honourable Member, honestly! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u138	So in a very brief way, Mr President, and indeed taking into account the reality and all the announcements and proclamations we have seen and which are not met, what I would like to ask you, look into your eyes, is whether you think that it is time for this government to speak the truth to the Portuguese and to stop preaching and advertising that then do not actually happen. Is it time for this government to leave behind the policy of guilt and assume effective responsibilities? That is because you have been in the government for three years, you are supporting him in each budget for three years! Is it time, or not, Mr Commissioner, to leave social insensitivity and guarantee better health care for Portuguese people? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u139	This intervention has been very much added to the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u140	For a second speech, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u141	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr António Sales and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto for the issues that have been raised. In fact, I am not even going to talk about the amnesia issues that seem to have become clear and clear. The fact is that if the demagogy paid taxes, Portugal would certainly be now in the financial situation solved because demagogy, today, has come and has survived. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We have no doubt that today we are witnessing a palatian blow from the PSD, which came here to shake the water from the hood and cry crocodile tears with such great concern about public services. But, in fact, your concern is to transform what you called state fats in the fattening of the private sector. That is the truth and that is your concern and it has never been another since they defended a right-wing policy. [[PCP applause.]] That is why we, the CFP, are in favour of an alternative policy, Mr António Sales. The truth is that it is not enough to stop doing just what the PSD was doing, it is necessary to go further and this is what we ask the PS : is the PS available to strengthen public services, as they deserve, as the population deserves? Is the PS available to provide public services with means, skills and professionals, with respect to professionals? It is that without professionals we do not have public services, without duly recognized and decently paid professionals we do not have quality public services, we do not have public services that guarantee what the population needs. Therefore, it is time to strengthen the National Health Service; it is time to strengthen mobility; it is time to strengthen education; it is time to strengthen justice; it is time to change policy. It is time for alternative policy, which the CFP defends and which it does not abdicate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u142	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brought the debate on the quality of public services, but what, in fact, wants to discuss—and I think it is important to do so—is public investment and its evolution, the decisions that count for this investment in our country. This is because it is public investment that we are talking about when we discuss the improvement of quality, or the lack of quality, that public services reveal a little by all sectors of activity. Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos does not ignore that to discuss public investment is to discuss a strategic variable, whose period of realization and maturation is normally in front of him 3, 4 years to start producing effects. in his speech, he said that there were no trains, which is true, that there were not enough public transport, which is true. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] But, Mr President, why is there no train, because there are not enough buses and meters in number to meet transport needs?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u144	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u145	Tell them they've been there for three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u146	Mr President, these decisions, as I say, are strategic decisions. We are three years old in this government, and we have already heard officials from public companies, such as the CP, who have come to inform the House that what the Government is deciding today in relation to the acquisition of 22 new trains for the regional service will only be in operation in Portugal in 2023, i.e. four years from now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u147	But the government has started now and there are already three years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u148	Therefore, Mr. Pedro Ramos, when he asked why there are no trains, the answer is because, in particular, four years ago, when you were in the government, supported by the CDS, you did not decide to buy trains to replace those who are effectively in the useful end of life and who should have been replaced in a timely manner by a decision that your Government did not take.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u149	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u150	He also said in his speech that we have to go to public investment numbers, particularly rail investment numbers in Portugal. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, Mr. Member, did you know that the average investment between 2012 and 2015 — the years effectively useful for the decision to invest in the railway — was 113, 8 million euros? This annually and on average. And do you know what the investment was made between 1999 and 2010, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics? It was 528, EUR 3 million per year. What was the year in which there was the biggest reduction in public rail investment? It was 2012, in which the investment compared to 2011 fell 84%, Mr. [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos.]] Repeat : 84 % fell, increased to 86 million euros in 2012. Therefore, in terms of rail, these strategic decisions relating to public services, in particular the means of transport that needed to be kept in operation, which needed to repair or buy to replace those that were in service end-of-life, were not taken on purpose by your Government. Why? It was not just because you are allergic to public services — that is known. The right-wing theory of public services is that these services, when provided by the State, reveal a huge inefficiencies and therefore must be privatized, supposedly, to increase their efficiency. We already know that's your line of thought. We are directly against, because we think that those who suffer from these decisions are the people and those who defend the quality of public services, precisely the subject of your inquiry today. Do you remember, certainly, of the 23 carriages which in the Metropolitan of Lisbon were suddenly grounded because strategic investment decisions were not made in a timely manner to replace the rounds that were in the end-of-life? Oh, my God! With regard to transport, Mr President, as you know, it is not possible to drive when your mileage compromises passenger safety. So, honourable Member, yes, we must discuss the numbers, but we must look at them in the long term and make the right decisions at the right time so that the quality of public services is not affected, since such services are paid by people's taxes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u151	Mr President, your statement did not raise any request for clarification, so I shall immediately speak to Mr Santinho Pacheco for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD comes to this House today to question the quality of existing public services and their collapse. It's all wrong, it's over, and there's so many strikes and paralysis. A real chaos is installed. Anyone who has heard Mr. Pedro do Ó Ramos should ask himself where he was going in the years 2011 to 2015 to have the courage to talk to us like that. A little humility and better memory was only good for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u153	We have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u154	The PSD should be able to interpret the results of the local elections, over which it has now spent one year, in the middle of a legislature. While the PS gained a historic victory, the PSD not only lost numerous cameras and parish, some that had ruled since 1976, as it lost its positions in the inner districts where it was always a majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u155	And who won the legislative elections in 2015? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u156	Why did all this happen? The answer is simple: the PSD abandons, mistreats and forgets low-density territories and the citizens gave it the pay. in the introduction which Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos made of this debate he spoke of everything, but not one word had about the interior. The neoliberal policies which with the CDS carried out in the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas do not respond to the problems of these aged territories, these territories depopulated from the inside of raiano, are not a solution to their needs. As to: the extinction of civil governments only served to take political weight and demand capacity to the most peripheral districts—all recognize it; extant joints the rule and framework and without criteria left the populations even more unprotected, delivered to themselves, without anyone to whom they resort; they ended positive discrimination for businesses; they extinguished courts; regional services centralized on the coast; companies on paper, pretending relocations; TTCs were privatized without caring for a universal postal service; they decapitalized the General Deposit Box with the aim of selling to privates; they opted for health without SNS and for less public social security and more insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u157	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u158	I'm done now, Mr. President. They come to tell us about the quality of public services. Today we can say that we have a government that makes the exploitation of the interior a governmental priority and territorial cohesion a genuine national design, by returning public services of quality and proximity to a state closer to the citizen. Our interior was looked away for too long; it was looked, but never seen. in the path of Saramago, if today, finally, we can see it, then we will repair it really. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u159	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers. I don't know if any of the parliamentary groups are going to do it... [[Pause.]] With no inscriptions, we then proceed to the closing intervention, which is the responsibility of Mr Cristóvão Ribeiro of the Social Democratic Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As someone would say, politicians have a substantial responsibility to solve the problems of the present, it is not entirely a matter of focusing on a distant past, crying about what they could or could not have solved. And I say more, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, he only talks constantly about the past who is afraid of the present and who is afraid to take on the responsibilities of his day-to-day action. The ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary left-wing Members do so much to this saying that, here, they have reached the point of, by the voice of the Left Block — no doubt! — to title this debate, which is a debate of immense seriousness, to be said, of immense seriousness, and that everything concerns people's daily lives, as a kind of 'thematic mix'. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u161	Good classification of PSD intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u162	Mr President, even I am not a fan of Ricardo Araújo Pereira, but I should not play with the Portuguese day-to-day or call 'thematic mix' a set of very serious situations that Portugal faces and that should be at least a reason for the attention and more respect of the honourable Member to people. [[PSD applause.]] Calling 'thematic mix' to the degradation of public services is Mr Deputy to call 'themselves' to the Portuguese. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot allow you. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese aren't mixers! And, Mr. Deputies, if you want to conjecture, Mixory is the government solution you find, which mixes Leninists, communists, Stalinists, socialists and a few more specialists in selling fairy tales to Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Otherwise, let's see. The gentlemen are at the entrance of the 3rd. the Legislative Session, three State budgets returned... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I'm glad you remember, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! The gentlemen are at the entrance of the 4th. the Legislative Session, three budgets of the returned state, and it is imperative that you speak here of the present, of your responsibility, and not of the past. On 28 August 2018, Centeno frozen more EUR 420 million off the side of Parliament, says a news from the Observer : « After the intensive negotiations of the Budget, the Government captured more EUR 420 million in expenditure. — with your convivence — « captive value is the third largest ever », but the other two were also from Minister Centeno in finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u163	Great information mix!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u164	Mr President, I know that this is a revolt, but it takes responsibility! On 14 August 2018 — it was neither 2011 nor 2012! — another news: ‘(...) shortage(...) seriously affects the functioning of the Court. There are missing printers, pens, paper. There are no elevators, in some cases, there are plagues, in others. And sometimes even the safety of those who go there is not guaranteed(...) ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was reported on 14 August 2018, with your government and with your support! [[PSD applause.]] On 18 August 2018, more news: reforms paid with 9 months' delay; delays in pensions call into question the rights of citizens; payments of old age pensions, disability or survival take one year. It is the annual report of the Ombudsman, which says so, that is not us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And Mr. Minister recognizes, of course — come on! — the delay in the payment of pensions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on 11 July 2018, another news: CP is on the brink of ruin due to old and broken trains. This was not in 2011, Mr. Members, it was in 2018. More: Railway workers warn again: « If nothing is done there can be a disgrace». On February 16, 2018, another news: Centeno forbids hospitals to pay suppliers. Another: Private hospitals refuse to operate ADSE patients. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the mix of themes that you here propagate to hide the fantasy of your government action. But the Portuguese have memories and they know very well what you have been doing. But let's talk about health, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will make a diagnosis of the health of the Portuguese and the health of the government's action. And what are the symptoms, which are, after all, in view of everyone? Increased number of complaints of patients; consecutive and frequent resignations of hospital officials; recurrent strikes of nurses, doctors and other professionals of the National Health Service; stagnation of primary health care... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr President, I know that the strikes irritate you because normally you are in your hands to counter government actions, but today they censor you too, because you have responsibilities. It is not disturbing, Mr President, to assume the responsibilities of your support, your vote and what you have been doing alongside the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] But we continue with the symptoms, which are, moreover, in view of everyone: growth of the totally unrealistic palliative care network; stagnation in the reform of primary health care; market share of frozen generic medicines; total SNS debt rising from 1437 million euros to 1928 million euros; increase in the average waiting time for consultations from 115 to 121 days, interrupting, in fact, a decrease cycle since 2011; increase in the number of waiting users for surgery in 14 000; hospitals without money to pay extra hours to the workers. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u165	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u166	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the state of the SNS, we do not talk about numbers, debts, complaints, we talk about the health of the Portuguese and the lack of decorum and shame that you have, by not taking up your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u167	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, what is required of politicians and, above all, those who govern and those who support the government is that they respond to the effective problems of people, to the suffering of users, to the suffering of Portuguese people and that they do not continue to sell fantasies. [[PS protests.]] They now assume your responsibilities, at this last legislative session, at 4. The Legislative Session — Thank you for reminding me, Mrs. Members —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u169	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u170	... with the votes of the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate and, as planned, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask the services which operate the system to be able to register and check the quorum electronically. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members of the PS ( José Silvano ), 3 Members of the PS ( Isabel Alves Moreira, Pedro Coimbra and Pedro Delgado Alves ), 4 Members of BE ( Catarina Martins, Joana Mortágua, Jorge Costa and José Moura Soeiro ), 3 Members of the CDS-PP ( Ana Rita Bessa, Cecília Meireles and Hélder Amaral ), and 1 Member of the PAN ( André Silva ), representing 206 Members present, therefore we have quorum to proceed to vote. Let's start by voting vote No 629 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS Members )............................................................................................................................................. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Carlos Monteiro, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Helena Almeida. Helena Almeida, daughter of sculptor Leopoldo de Almeida, was born in Lisbon in 1934, having completed the course of Painting at the School of Fine Arts in 1955. With the birth of children, Helena Almeida postpones for a few years the development of her work, exhibited for the first time in Lisbon in 1967, after a passage through Paris where she was as a purse. National and international recognition is even later, although already undeniable in the turn of the century. It is in photography and reflection on itself and on the artistic work that Helena Almeida finds a unique and complex place, being present today in collections as relevant as that of Gulbenkian, Tate Modern or Reina Sofia Museum. Breaking the borders between drawing, painting, video, photography and performing art, Helena Almeida broke the conventions with her work, covered herself with a screen and built into a truly personal and original work. of the major exhibitions in Portugal, stand out « Feet on the ground, head on the sky » in the Cultural Centre of Belém, in 2004, or more recently the retrospective made in Serralves, which also passed through the Jeux de Paume, in Paris, and by Wiels, in Brussels. The title of this retrospective summarizes very well the originality, strength and meaning of his work: «My work is my body, my body is my work». It is undoubtedly a great name for contemporary national and international art. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic thus acknowledge Helena Almeida's journey in the context of Portuguese culture, and convey to their family and friends the deepest condolences for her disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 630 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PS and the PCP ) — regretting the death of Fernando Fernandes. I ask the Secretary, Mr Diogo León, to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of the historian Fernando Fernandes. Born in Espinho, on January 25, 1934, Fernando de Lima Pinho Fernandes founded, in 1958, in the city of Porto, with José Augusto Seabra, Carlos Porto and Vítor Alegria, the bookshop and gallery Disclosure, which quickly became an exhibition and dissemination space for the work of young contemporary artists of the time. A decade later, in 1968, he founded the bookstore Reading, space that for years, more than place for books, was a place of resistance against dictatorship, marketing books forbidden by censorship. at a time of constant repression, Fernando Fernandes' bookstore arrived hundreds of imported books, thus creating a space that served as a home for thought and allowing him to be found, in that place, which he could not read for years. Reading became one of the most emblematic books in Porto, acquiring invaluable cultural significance at the local, regional and national levels. It was highlighted by the vast catalogue of more than 120,000 copies, where there were rare, national and foreign works, as well as publications from the best known to the most unknown authors. For many considered the « lord book », the « poet of books » and even « the greatest of the booksellers of Portugal », as author Agustina Bessa-Luís would call it, Fernando Fernandes made Reading a cultural reference of the city and the country. He reformed in 1999, the year in which he was also honoured by the City Council with the award of the City Gold Medal, and was also decorated with the Order of Merit by the then President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express to Fernando Fernandes' family and friends the greatest sense of regret over his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to Vote No 631 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Alves Barbosa. Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira, I thank you for reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António da Silva Barbosa, known as Alves Barbosa, considered one of the greatest figures in the history of Portuguese cycling, died on September 29, 2018, in Figueira da Foz. Born on December 24, 1931, in Vila Verde, Figueira da Foz, Alves Barbosa, who always represented the Sangalhos, was the first Portuguese cyclist to win three times the Back to Portugal on Bicycle ( in the 1951 editions, 1956 and 1958 ) and was placed among the first ten places on the Back to France on Bicycle, in 1956. After this premiere, Alves Barbosa participated in three more editions of the Volta to France ( in 1957, 1958 and 1960 ), but also from the Volta to Spain ( in 1957, 1958 and 1960 ), in two editions of the Volta to Morocco ( in 1952 and 1960 ) and from the Volta to Andalusia ( in 1960 and 1961 ). After leaving the cycling career, he was a coach of Sport Lisboa and Benfica and National Technical Director of the modality ( 1975 to 1978 and 1989 to 1992 ). In 1990, he received the Sport Merit Medal, and in 2007 he was decorated with the Youth and Sports Gold Medal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Alves Barbosa and addresses his family and the Portuguese Federation of Cycling his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u177	Thank you very much, Secretary Sandra Pontedeira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote this regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 632 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by a PSD member ) — Despite the death of Manuel Beja. Once again, I would ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Diogo León, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Manuel Beja, born in Alcobaza on February 24, 1944, died last September 29 at the age of 73. Immigrants in Switzerland since 1971 stood out for their tireless struggle to defend the rights and interests of Portuguese workers living in Switzerland, and all Portuguese who had to seek better living and working conditions abroad. Militant of the Portuguese Communist Party since 1974, Manuel Beja has been a prominent trade unionist, associative leader, member of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and President of the Association for the Rendezvous of Migrants. In 2007 he received from the Presidency of the Republic the degree of Commander of the Order of Merit, in recognition of his work in behalf of the Portuguese communities. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Manuel Beja and addresses condolences to his family and to the CFP. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we have vote No 633 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Despite the victims of the earthquake and tsunami that hit Indonesia. I ask the Secretary, Mr Pedro Alves, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Friday, September 28, an earthquake, with magnitude 7.5 on the Richter scale, and the tsunami that followed devastated the city of Palu, on the Indonesian island of Celebes and numerous coastal areas, causing more than 1400 dead, hundreds of wounded and about 16 000 displaced. In view of the seriousness of the event, the local authorities have activated requests for international emergency aid to respond to the disaster. The European Union has already indicated that it will move forward with EUR 1 5 million to provide emergency humanitarian aid to victims. In addition to this aid, the European Commission sent an expert to coordinate the rescue teams of the European Union highlighted on the ground and activated the Copernicus Community Satellite Emergency Service to create maps of the affected areas, ensuring solidarity with the victims and the provision of technical means that strengthen the quality and speed of the response. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its total solidarity with the authorities and the people of Indonesia in the face of this tragedy and conveys to the families and friends of the victims their greatest grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to all these regrets that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall continue the votes, with the general vote of Bill No 980 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Provides for the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to their protection. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE and PAN, and abstentions from the Deputies of the PS Luís Graza, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro Delgado Alves and the Member of the CDS-PP João Rebelo.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1785 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a survey on the use of equidae in animal traction vehicles and consequently regulations. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, Os Verdes, PAN, PS Deputies Luís Graza, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves and the CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u182	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u183	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u184	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on this last vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u186	Mr President, the CDS Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u187	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 538 / XIII / 2. a (PEV) — prohibits hunting of foxes and frogs and excludes these species from the list of kinetic species, making the eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens, the PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions by PS Deputies Luís Graça and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 982 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Prevents fox hunting using paulade and t-shirts. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and CDS-PP Member João Rebelo and abstentions from The Greens and PS's Deputies Ana Passos, Luís Graza, Pedro Delgado Alves and Wanda Guimarães.]] Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 983 / XIII / 3 is followed. a (NAP) — Remove the fox and raspberry from the list of species subject to kinetic exploitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens and the PAN and abstentions by PS Deputies Luís Graça, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 996 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ban the fox and frog hunt and remove these species from the list of kinetic species. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSDP, PS, CDS-PP and PCP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens, PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions by PS Deputies Luís Graça and Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u188	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u189	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u190	Mr President, it is to announce that, on the vote on these four draft laws, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1751 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the security forces and services, by creating a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u192	PSD vote will be a success in the police!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1759 / XIII / 3. a ( CFP ) — It proposes measures to strengthen palliative care. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1803 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u194	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u195	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u196	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the vote on the last draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1760 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the response of the National Health Service at the level of continued care. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 1791 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government ensure that literary qualifications are not an exclusion factor from the regularization of bonds and safeguard the situation of workers under PREVPAP, and 1799 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Insurance of workers without 12. the year of schooling other than the exclusion of invitation to tender under PREVPAP, considering the admission requirements at the start of duties, and where necessary granting a time limit for the acquisition of the required authorizations. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, it is also important to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I would ask the Secretary, Mr Pedro Alves, to give us an account of this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u198	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Central Court of Lisbon — Judge 16, Case No 22384 / 17.1T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Peixoto ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-04.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's agenda. The next plenary session will be held on 10 October, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure ; debate on the state of the Union in 2018, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ( Act of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ), and the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a ). that of that law. I wish everyone a good October 5th and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 11 minutes.]]
