ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we move on to our agenda, Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 929 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — eliminates the deadline for the dismantling of end-of-life vehicles in slaughter centres ( amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 930 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recovery of public management of school canteens ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 931 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Implements a new voluntary delivery period of illegal firearms and ammunition without the establishment of a criminal procedure accompanied by an information campaign for disclosure ( NAP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 932 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity in order to combat hunger and food waste in Portugal ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1726 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1727 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes the maintenance of the professional course of performance arts at André de Gouveia High School in Évora ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1728 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote access to local agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ), 1730 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the General Inspection of Education and Science ( BE ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 1731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation of the Henrique Medina High School in Esponende, and removes all asbestos fibration plates ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. Commission, 1732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the rehabilitation and requalification of the Basic and Secondary School of Santos Simões, in Guimarães ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1733 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent retraining and rehabilitation of the Valbom High School in order to guarantee dignity to the entire school community ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1734 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of an additional bonus credit line for the recovery of second houses destroyed by the fires of 2017 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1735 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment and support for agricultural losses caused by the weather of May and June 2018 ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1736 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of mechanisms to regulate domestic education, respecting the freedom and rights of families ( CDS-PP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1737 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide the Basic School of São Romão in Mesão Frio ( Guimarães ) with the necessary conditions to ensure the success of the school ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1738 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the Russian Federation ( President of the HR ), 1739 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde ( President of the HR ) and 1740 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the priority construction of a new central hospital in the Algarve ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u3	Mrs. Members, I think draft resolution No 1738/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — Move of the President of the Republic to the Russian Federation, which I myself have tabled in order to be able to do so, since things are going well with the National Soccer Selection, it must be voted on by now. So, if there is no impediment, we will then vote on this draft resolution, because it has a wide range of possibilities, since it is only a journey to be several, which, of course, we would like. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 1738/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the Russian Federation ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now enter the single item on today's agenda, which consists of a debate required by the PSD under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on policies for childhood and birth. Opening the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members: In democracy, there are times of divergence and times of convergence. in this forum, we usually value the divergence and confrontation. It is only natural that this should be done in Parliament, which is the exposition of the plurality of society's policy. But today, on this occasion, the issue that leads me to go up to this forum, on behalf of the PSD, is structural enough to force all of us, without exception, from right to left, to an effort of convergence. Convergence in a fight that must be transversal and national in relation to the demographic decline that afflicts us. Convergence that must be assumed urgently and continuously in relation to the demographic winter that obscures our future. Convergence that calls for a union of efforts by all, the state and society, parties and citizens, in relation to a structural problem that can seriously compromise our sustained development. The diagnosis is known and relentless: from years to this part, we have fewer births, fewer people entering Portugal, more citizens leaving the country. For years, the natural balance and migration balance have been negative. The fact that this problem is neither new nor exclusively Portuguese rests our consciences nor relieves our anxieties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u6	After all, we are faced with some serious, deep and structural dramas. A country with less population tends to be a weaker and less cohesive country. A less labour-intensive economy is at risk of being a less competitive and more unequal economy. Social security with fewer contributions and revenues poses a delicate challenge to the sustainability of the social state. An older population without generational renewal does not only put pressure on our National Health Service, more than that, alienate us - dynamic development, renewable energy and mobilization capacity in relation to the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the hardness of the diagnosis does not inhibit, however, our desire to change, cannot condition our creative engineering, nor should it discourage our collective effort, but it obliges us to structure a thought, choose priorities, deepen reflections and involve the whole community in a debate that is strategic and generational. This is what led the President of the PSD to present a number of concrete proposals in public, and that is why I reaffirm the importance of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u8	There are three guidelines in this framework that we must follow and develop. First orientation: consensualizing a policy to encourage births which is a clear and consistent policy based on attractive measures and executed without delay throughout several legislatures. Second orientation: to contain, as far as possible, the exit of Portuguese abroad, which requires the continuing bet in a more modern and developed country, with more opportunities and better wages, more cohesion and less unequal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u10	Third orientation: to define and implement a policy of attracting immigrants. It is the combination of these policies, with a global and integrated view, with the priorities listed and the necessary balance, that we can overcome the demographic challenge. The task is difficult, but the goal is not impossible. After all, there is no way they can overcome our will when the sustainable future of our society is at stake. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the incentive to birth is, in this framework, the priority of priorities, a priority which can underpin the granting of monetary and financial support to maternity and families they want to access; a priority that must aim to reconcile professional activity with the family activity of parents and families; a priority which, above all, involves investing in stronger, more visible and more widespread support for children. Generalizing free access to day care centres and kindergartens is not only an ambitious goal, it is much more than that: it is to invest in deepening and strengthening the social state, it is to create an essential added value for the right to maternity, it is to bet on the most appropriate direction to make the difference in this national struggle to the demographic bomb that pursues us. It will be said that such an investment has high costs. Certainly. But it is important to ask: What is the cost of doing nothing? What is the cost of a substantial reduction in the population from here to 15 or 20 years? How much does the country lose for nothing to do in fewer contributions to social security? What is the cost of leaving a policy that is strategic and structural only because we are engaged in reductive assessments, petty analyses, sterile disputes and in inconsequential and useless debates? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u11	Mr. President and Mr. Members, one of the conditions for success of a national strategy to combat demographic decline is the degree of political consensus that this measure can achieve. in this matter, especially in this matter, we are all called to participate, from left to right no one should be excluded and no one should be excluded. in the state and society, to hear the largest number of opinions, individual and collective, of citizens and organizations, must be an inalienable imperative of our agenda of work. in this sense, we will immediately propose the creation of a possible parliamentary committee for analysis and discussion of ideas, projects and proposals for combating demographic decline. The aim is to make this debate broad and participatory, serene and rational, national and non-partisan. The purpose is to give civil society another opportunity to be heard, to present their contributions, to offer their experience and knowledge. The aim is not to look at the initiative of parties or future electoral programmes, but rather to provide them with additional elements of analysis and information that allow them to deepen their ideas and strengthen the robustness of their proposals. The motivation, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is serious and honest: we want to promote political consensus; we want to stimulate social participation; we want to strengthen technical consistency; we want to seek the serenity that the great struggles demand and the extended and mobilising spirit of those who are the great, important and true national designs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u12	Mrs Deputies, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u13	Mr. President, I will answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u14	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, you speak to us in consensuality, but it does not bring us objectivity. Within this assumption, it is very difficult for us to evaluate the PSD proposals. But the PSD does more. The PSD today comes to debate with a package announced, days ago, with a large pump, on childhood and birth policies. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] It is still curious that the document, which brings figures, tables, which aims to show a lot of technicality, is a document that does not bring a word about the evolution of birth in recent decades. And they don't do it because you don't care, Your Honor. [[PSD protests.]] It is that in the four and a half years in which PSD and CDS ruled Portugal, birth has fallen more than in the last two decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But for you, it doesn't even matter. Birth was due to very objective reasons, Mrs. Member : to the blind courts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u16	You sent the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u17	... to the fact that you have dried up and sent to emigrate young people of fertile age. [[PSD protests.]] And, as far as this is concerned, Mrs and Mrs. Members, at least for my part, I do not forgive you, neither me nor many families, who have seen their children leave Portugal. The obsession on the right with cuts in social investment were measures that had an unprecedented impact on birth as we had never seen before, but you are not interested in talking about it. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you may well come to speak of « demographic winter» that history will not take away your role. Madam Member, there must be those who work on these issues in the PSD and in the PSD Parliamentary Group a communication problem. The honourable Member is here to talk about the creation of a possible parliamentary committee. Then the working group where these subjects are being discussed and which works within the framework of the 10. the Commission? Are we superimposed structures, Mrs. Member? [[P.S.'s applause.]] These proposals have raised hearings, meetings — last one was held yesterday afternoon — civil society has been heard. The gentlemen. Have you members informed the headquarters of your party that you were doing this work? The gentlemen. Members are also involved in this working group! either: or today's marking does not pass a number of politicians, and for that they do not count on the Socialist Party, or if it is to make contributions, they do not count on the participation of this Parliamentary Group. Mrs Depute, I refer to two concrete measures presented in this document which came from headquarters and which did not even reflect in Mrs Depute's speech: the first is that of the single payment of the IAS(indexing of social support) to all pregnant women from the seventh month of pregnancy, in order to facilitate investments concerning the arrival of the first child. It's not very clear. Is it just for the first child? Is it a single payment? Are you going to cancel the prenatal family allowance? It is that he exists, Mrs Deputy, many years ago, on the initiative of the Socialist Party, and is granted to the pregnant woman from 13. a week. Only in 2006, 80 % of births in Portugal were covered by prenatal family allowance. But the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to remove the prenatal allowance? Oh, my God! Is it purposeful or simply unaware of the existence of this social benefit? The second measure has to do with the allocation of a fixed allowance for children up to 18 years of age to replace the family allowance. The gentlemen. Are Members proposing to leave out about 238 thousand young people over 18 years of age who either study or have a disability and who are covered today? Oh, my God! Have you forgotten, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! You don't know? Oh, my God! Are you going to leave them alone? Oh, my God! Are these families getting out of here? Oh, my God! In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, it is not surprising that the three guidelines in the PSD document you have mentioned here are exactly the same as they are on page 121 of the Government's Programme and that the Government has been developing. So, Mrs. Member, initiatives that...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are, therefore, overarching initiatives, structures that you have in mind. Members intend to create and overlap with existing ones, with the same principle, to listen to the same entities. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions I have left, for which I thank you for the answer, are very clear and objective. As for the PSD proposals, of course the issue is unequivocally structural and is a concern of all, but one by one must be analyzed, like what has been done in the working group. Just to finish, don't forget to communicate this aspect to the headquarters of your party. It makes all the difference, avoids embarrassment, avoids duplication and avoids omissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u20	For a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u21	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, you well know that it is not possible to discuss the issues of incentive to birth without understanding their causes. Even because, as you well know, the desired fertility rate index is frankly higher than the actual fertility rate index, which proves that often and most of the time the problem is not to want, the problem is to be able to have children or have more children. It is important, therefore, to understand why people cannot have more children, and in this equation they know well that living conditions and working conditions are central. We are not surprised that, in his initial speech, he said nothing about the living conditions of families and the family income policy. But we're not surprised, too, why, Your Honor? During the PSD/CDS government, they facilitated, promoted and embarrassed dismissals. When they generalized precariousness and work instability, when they increased and disorganized working hours, when they cut wages and social support, when they worsened poverty and social exclusion, when they invited young people to emigrate and leave their comfort zone, they were not concerned about birth and, therefore, we are not surprised that they now arise with this talk of pretense concern with low birth rates when, in fact, what Mrs Deputy presented concretely was the constitution of a possible committee. Now, she remembers better than I, in the previous legislature, who was the coordinator of a working group only for the issues of birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u22	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u23	She is currently the coordinator of the Working Group on Gender Equality and Parental Policy. It is not by chance that the PSD has none on matters of maternity, unlike the PCP. But it is also true, Mrs Deputies, that we always, but always, have tabled proposals for reducing working hours of 35 hours for all, the PSD voted against. When we put forward proposals to combat precariousness, the PSD voted against. When we put forward proposals, as we have discussed today, of strengthening the rights of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers, the PSD is against. Therefore, it is very clear that the problem is not the lack of diagnosis, the problem is not the lack of broad discussion. The problem is the lack of political will to take the right measures to combat low birth rates and for that we know that we do not have the PSD and the CDS. Income recovery measures are needed, social support and right employment are needed, and for this reason we will be here for this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u24	In reply, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u25	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Rita Rato and Mrs Idália Serrão for her questions. Mrs Rita Rato, the problem is not a lack of diagnosis. You didn't hear what I said about the rostrum. He said precisely that the diagnosis is made and that we should not be prevented from consensualizing policies, now that we know what the diagnosis is, to combat this real problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u27	Moreover, Mrs Deputy said that the PSD was not concerned about family income. Madam Member, I said that these measures can even be more expensive, but it is preferable to invest now, in order to improve the lives of families, ensuring them more incomes so that they can have the children they really want, so that we do not pay the costs later. Mrs. Deputy didn't pay attention. On the other hand, I am once again aware — and with this I also reply to Mrs Idália Serrão — that the parties on the left do not want to debate seriously. It is regrettable, it is sad that it is, it is sad that we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, on the left, there is no desire to consensualize structural and fundamental policies for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u29	I would also like to refer to Mrs Idália Serrão, who proposed the setting-up of a committee to resolve this issue in an integrated, consistent and sustained manner, and not by means of a point of amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u30	That's an apology!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u31	We have already found that the amendments have to cover several areas, they have to be transversal and, therefore, it is not just a working group to make specific changes that will solve this serious problem. It can make contributions, as in the past Parliament the PSD has made contributions—and we are very pleased that the reconciliation between professional and family life has been facilitated—but it does not actually arrive, and that is what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u32	Where's the family visa?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u33	On the other hand, Mrs Idália Serrão says something and her opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u34	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u35	First he says that there is no objectivity, then he speaks in concrete proposals and comes with arguments that make no sense. The document of the Democratic Social Party to which the honourable Member refers clearly - I advise you to read it, because it is very useful...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u36	I've read, I've read!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u37	It clearly says that it is an unclosed and open document to the community. That is precisely what we want to do: open the community and open the parliamentary groups, because we understand, as I said and repeat, that this matter will have the desired effect if it is to last beyond the legislature. Otherwise, we are constantly creating uncertainties for people, and uncertainty in nothing helps in this problem which is the "demographic winter" we have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u38	There is another group of two requests for clarification. To this end, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u39	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, has been said here by you and by other Members that the diagnosis is made. In fact, the diagnosis is made, but it was not done by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u40	But also, but also!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u41	There are many studies conducted in Portugal, and one of the last, funded by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation, precisely on fertility issues, pointed to the difference between effective fertility and desired fertility: the children that people have and the children that people wish to have but do not have. These surveys ask people another question, which is to know why they have no children, because there is this disparity between the desire for kinship and the children that families really have. And the answers are obvious. Several surveys present the same data: the great social constraints that explain this disparity are called unemployment and precariousness. And precariousness also includes difficulties in access, for example, to housing. Secondly, it refers to the inadequacy of public child support structures. What is surprising is that, saying the PSD that the diagnosis is made, nothing refers to the strategic document that presents the main reasons that explain the lack of compliance with people's wishes in relation to their parenthood projects. It is that nothing refers to unemployment, precariousness, which are the major factors of constraints. But that does not surprise us, Mrs Deputies, because this silence is significant. We know what the PSD register is with regard to the worsening of unemployment, the invitations to emigration of young people, the promotion of precariousness, the courting of incomes, the difficulty of reconciling family life, personal life and working life. The most significant of this debate is that omission. Secondly, the honourable Member is presenting a proposal today. This is a difficult debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u42	No, it's not hard.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u43	... because the PSD did not monitor its legislative agenda of any legislative initiative, that is, it did not follow this debate, this schedule, of no concrete proposal. But the honourable Member has put forward a proposal for a committee to be set up on this subject. Madam Member, I believe that this proposal is a form of self-respect, because the honourable Member presides over a working group that exists in this Parliament on parenthood. Madam President, today morning we discuss in the Commission the timetable of the Working Group, which has for discussion a number of proposals, namely the Left Block, to extend parental leave, to allow greater reconciliation between working life and family life, to recognize the rights of parents and mothers of children with disabilities, to strengthen social support, public day care. This working group is running, the honourable Member has responsibilities in this group and the proposal made by this Parliament is that of setting up a committee to replace the group, because she says that work needs to be done in an integrated way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u44	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u45	So I ask you, honourable Member: is the work that you are doing not being done in an integrated way, neither serious nor responsible, nor deep? Finally, a proposal submitted by the PSD in the document of the National Strategic Council, which is the proposal of the baby cheque, has disappeared from this debate. The baby check, which the PSD proposed, was presented as an apparent gain for families, of €10,000, which the PSD would give to families. However, it seems that the PSD did not make the accounts or, if it did, has come to hide them, because the terms in which the PSD presented the proposal represent, after all, not a gain for families, but a cut. Why? Because this baby check replaces the family allowance and replaces the prenatal allowance. And up to three years old, the PSD proposal means a brutal fall in the amounts received by families. They are cuts that affected the first years of life, they are cuts that would have negative effects from the point of view of combating poverty. I conclude by referring to these examples: for a family member with a child, the cut of the PSD proposal is more than €2000 per year; for a group with three or more children, in the first three years the cut that PSD proposes is 3.2,000 per year and for single-parent families the cut that PSD proposes is more than €4000 per year in the first three years of life of children, which, as everyone knows, are the years in which there are more expenses. Mrs Deputy, I ask you: are these the proposals that the PSD has to encourage parenthood and to encourage birth? Perhaps more valuable, Mrs. Member, the PSD does not make any proposal and put into the drawer this foul report which, after all, means a cut in the policies and support that exist for children and families in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[Meanwhile, he took over the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u46	The next request for clarification is from Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, it is unbelievable that the PSD marks a debate on matters of childhood and birth and that the proposal, the real proposal that it brings to the Assembly of the Republic, is the setting up of a possible committee. Madam Member, we believe that this proposal from the PSD does not aim at anything other than to be constantly repeating the same and delaying decisions. And why do I say this? I am saying this because they have already appeared and have appeared — and you know that, in the Commission, the Greens are also proposing on the question of reconciling working life with family life and supporting childhood and birth, precisely — concrete proposals and, as a rule, the PSD's position on the specific proposals of other parliamentary groups is to vote against. Therefore, they are constantly wanting to discuss these matters, but never to want to decide and, strictly speaking, not to make a concrete contribution to making decisions. And the honourable Member knows that. Let me tell you something, Mrs Commissioner: when we are talking about support for childhood and birth, we are talking about truly cross-cutting issues to which sectoral policies must respond. And, as in other matters which the Greens here have brought about, for example, regional asymmetries, what we must do is to set great national objectives in view of our concrete reality and put sectoral policies on the basis of these structural objectives. That's what must happen, Your Honor! The challenge of the Greens to the PSD is to present concrete proposals in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss them. But don't call them on points, call them on concrete proposals to resolve concrete situations. What the honourable Member wants, in fact, is to escape the confrontation over the causes that lead to us today in the situation in which we are, where the desired fertility rate is much higher than the actual fertility rate, because families, especially young couples, do not have the number of children they want to have. And why, Mrs. Deputy? I don't need to tell you! I don't need to tell you that the PSD has contributed, with all its hands, to make it more difficult for families to be able to make the choice to have the children they want, because you have accentuated precariousness in our country, made working hours more flexible, making family life even more incompatible with the professional and making child support more difficult, reduced wages and made family life more difficult and cut into social support, especially in the family allowance. Mrs Deputy, they did everything contrary to what they should have done to encourage birth and now they come here to do what? Washing consciences, proposing the creation of a committee? Oh, my God! Mr Member, it was necessary more, much more, but the PSD should never be expected much. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u48	In reply, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Moura Soeiro and Mr Heloísa Apolónia, I will have to say that Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they didn't understand anything about my speech. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] But I'll explain again. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no objective here to enter with closed proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u50	Not closed or open!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u51	What was said was that we had an objective, which was to find consensus in the face of a diagnosis made—and, honourable Member, it does not matter who made the diagnosis, it is done and it is consensual. We all know that we need to take serious measures and the honourable Members. Members do not want to take serious action. And it is not the PSD that is running away from the debate, because it was the PSD that scheduled it, the PSD who wanted to come to discuss these matters and appeal to all of you. Members, once and for all, put aside ideological questions and really thought about the structural problems of the country. That's what we want you to do. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the appeal we made. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has just said a set of misgivings. So the PSD votes against the proposals made by other parties regarding the reconciliation between professional and family life? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u52	Time bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u53	Madam Member, I would even understand if the honourable Member had not been here in the past. But who proposed the flexibility of parental leave? It was PSD and CDS. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Yes, Mrs Rita Rato, was approved in the previous Parliament, despite the lack of support from the Socialist Party. Who proposed the increase of compulsory leave for the father? Oh, my God! Who removed a set of obstacles that existed regarding birth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u54	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u55	It was PSD and CDS. Yes, that working group that existed was precisely for that. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we are once and for all: what we want is that there is consensus that more is needed and that there is an effect. And it's not for the PSD, it's for the country's future. It is more than seeing that you, in addition to not wanting to come to the debate, are running away from it, from a matter as important as this one. But you will certainly be aware that you do not want to enter the debate on a fundamental issue in order to combat this demographic scourge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u56	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of the talks. The only request for intervention registered by the Bureau so far is from Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP. Mr President, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this Parliament, the CDS-PP has already presented more than 25 initiatives around birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u58	But look, it didn't make a big deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u59	In May 2016, i.e. more than 24 months ago, we marked a positive agenda precisely around the family and birth. The PSD has accompanied us on these initiatives, which unfortunately was insufficient for them to be approved. The 25 initiatives were plunged by the majority on the left and, however, spent two years and we discussed the same again. But it wasn't just two years lost. More than 10 years ago, in November 2007 the CDS publicly presented a report entitled Christmas — the Portuguese challenge and for several decades we have mentioned that birth is the main Portuguese design. The CDS welcomes this because today it is consensually recognized. The fact that we have the issue of birth on the agenda confirms that we were right and are also in some way driven by your commitment to ensure that political debate does not go side by side with what really matters to the country, as so often happens with other agendas. But the consensus reached is at the same time a bitter feeling: we well know that the subject is imposed because the reality of what we feared has been confirmed in increasingly pessimistic scenarios. We weren't right before! All demographic indicators confirm and aggravate the decline, a decline that, since birth, of the most precious good in a country and in any community, reflects an economic, political and financial decline. Since 1981 the rate of fertility has fallen almost continuously after leaving the desirable rate of 2, 1 %. The decline in birth represents the greatest internal threat to our continuity as a historical community but, above all, represents the inability to respond to couples, families, mothers who repeatedly say that they would like to have more children than they do. If that is the national interest, if that is the wish of who can and wants to have children, what are we missing then? Why do we continue to postpone what is undeserving? There is an increased risk of revisiting the issue of birth without anything happening, and no proposals compromise us. It is that every time we talk about the matter, we can create the illusion that, as it is already being discussed, it is already on the agenda of the day, it is already being referred. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive ourselves or allow false illusions. Birth may even be — and has often been, often even because of the responsibility of the CDS — on the parliamentary agenda, but it is not enough in political and budgetary priorities. It's not enough what we've done, because the data gets worse and worse. It needs more. It needs better.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u60	What about the family visa?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u61	Yes, a larger financial envelope is certainly needed, giving more an equivalent leap to that given by the previous government, where budgetary support for families has increased by EUR 600 million. But it also needs to be better, because no problem is solved, and much less those that are structural, only with more money. We certainly need to respond to the problems of precariousness, housing policies and the reconciliation of personal life with working life, but we must have the ability to focus on objectives rather than on party rhetoric. So many times, and unfortunately this is already happening here today, we make the birth agenda a trampoline for other agendas that we already had and that we wanted to impose, regardless of the issue of birth and its evolution. However, in this way, we only continue to postpone what we cannot, it should not even continue to be postponed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore focus on the central issue: no birth policy can circumvent the challenge of being a family today, because it is the decision of families to have more children. Let us therefore give the word to families and give an example of an illustration of a broader vision: the family quotient. It is not just a matter of giving more money to the family, but of going to rest an injustice, an injustice that happens whenever they are not considered — at water rates, at moderate rates, at taxes, etc. — the elements that make up a family. That is why, on our part, we will contribute to this debate, demanding that the conjugal quotient be added to the number of dependents and that, in determining all rates, charges and taxes, especially the progressive ones, it is established that children have to count. Children cannot be clandestine or invisible. The family quotient is, therefore, in our view, the expression of a right that does not represent only the granting of financial support. No, it is the right for each child to be considered, to exist and to be respected. Families and Portuguese can count on the CDS to continue fighting for the family quotient. Not because it is a party agenda, but because it expresses and translates, in practice, what is an integrated view of birth and Portuguese families, where no child is irrelevant nor is it considered out of context and family economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u62	Mr President, the Bureau only records a request for clarification by Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u63	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, in view of the data known this week on the reimbursement to families with children, which you have fired, when will you change your speech on this matter? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, your position, of complete agreement with these policies, does not surprise us, until both of them were part of a government that not only failed to stop the fall in fertility as it significantly accelerated it. Portugal recorded in 2014 the lowest synthetic birth rate in the European Union. To solve the problems of birth is, of course, to create conditions which you have not created, so that families can have the number of children they want. And the fertility survey shows the solutions, which is how families say: increase the income of families. You didn't do that in previous governance. And they did even more: they decreased wages, pensions, increased unemployment, increased the emigration of young people, that is, they did everything, everything against families. The solution does not go through time-consuming solutions such as those that have just presented, but extended and integrated policies — demographic, economic, emigration and social and territorial cohesion. The PS takes pride in its pioneering role in policies for reconciling family, personal and professional life, and is proud to have been in socialist governments which have launched parental leave, whose success, as proved by the ISCED Report (Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment), in the involvement of parents in the care and support of their children, is well known. Having said this, Mr President, I would like to know what your concrete opinion is about a measure proposed by the PSD, which is aimed at withdrawing this participation from the parents, when you say that the parental leave should be extended from 150 to 180 days at the cost of increasing the mother's exclusive licence from 6 to 13 weeks without any margin to extend the shared licence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad measure, a mistake, a paradigm that we have already passed and that you are trying to recover. This is a measure focused on the woman as a caregiver of the children, without taking into account the important role of the father as a caregiver. This is a measure which does not align with the European Union's guidelines in this area, a measure against equality, against the constitutional principle introduced by the 1982 revision, when paternity was added to maternity as an eminent social value. Tell us, Mr, whether or not this is what you want. The PS says to these policies: « No! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Parentality is more than a family project, it is a social project, a project that must involve all and all, and various policies, so that families have the number of children they want. When the path is around here, we will be together; while not, we will surely be in different fields, because deep ideological values distinguish us, as regards the increase in fertility and the involvement of parents and mothers in this project, which should not only be familiar but also collective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u64	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u65	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, I thank you for your question. Madam Member, I must tell you that, either in the form or in the content, your intervention reflects an attitude that should be completely different, when, in the face of such a problem, it comes from someone who belongs to the party with the responsibility of government. Its intervention reveals an attitude of clique, of a spirit of division, when, in fact, the majority are provisional, the governments pass by, and the problem of birth has persisted in Portugal in a regular way irrespective of the different governments. The honourable Member knows that, at least since 1981, the fertility rate is below the desired rate. And the honourable Member knows well, even because she had governmental responsibilities, that the governments in which she participated also did not have the capacity to reverse this serious situation. Therefore, Mrs. Member, it is not worth pretending, nor throwing the blame on others. That data that you have mentioned, on the increase in returns to families, Mrs Deputies, is only because of lack of information that you can repeat them here. It is that, according to official information from the Ministry of Finance, between 2014 and 2015, there was a negative change in the liquidated IRS of around 4, 1 % — around EUR 500 million, and this evolution was largely due to changes made in the IRS, with particular emphasis on introducing the family quotient. What you have done was to withdraw that amount and apply it to deductions. That is why he now speaks of the increase in returns, but there was no increase, which was simply a different application of an amount, which, in fact, was inferior. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we have a calm conscience about our work. There has never been such a significant budget volume for families as in the previous Government, which you cannot follow. But this problem of birth is not solved by a divisionist attitude, we must have another kind of responsibility, another kind of openness.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u67	On family conciliation, Mrs. Member, we presented here, in 2016, 25 proposals, many of which to share leave between parents and mothers. And for all of them, the responsibility of the PS has been ascertained at the time, with lead, because they are unable to accept what comes from the other benches, and that is to lament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, a genuine and effective strategy to promote birth and policies for children cannot be summed up in the creation of another committee, but it must be developed cross-sectionally within a concerted policy to support families. It has been demonstrated, and proved, that instability in employment, uncertainty about the future and low available income have been the main factors inhibiting birth numbers in Portugal. Only stability at work, only a policy based on increased family income and only confidence in a better future will enable families to plan their future safely and have the children they want, the children they want. As in other European countries, Portugal has faced a huge demographic crisis and the demographic projections for the next few years are frightening: Portugal will be, in a few years, the European country with fewer children of the resident population; it will be, in the future, the second country of the European Union with greater relative weight of people over 65 years of age; we will be the country with more population weight than 80 years old. If there had not been an reversal of austerity policies adopted during the Government of the former majority PSD / CDS, which were essentially based on income cuts, social support cuts and labour policies that encourage and promote low wages and precarious work, Portugal would today run the serious risk of suffering an irreversible contraction of its active population. But the current government and the majority that supports it have made it possible to reverse this trend. The demographic crisis in Portugal has, in fact, economic, social and cultural causes, and it has worsened, above all, with the massive emigration of young people, who, due to the lack of job opportunities, were literally pushed out of Portugal by the former right government, weakening, even more, the active population and aggravating the numbers of births. It is urgent that these young people return to Portugal. There is an urgent need for measures to encourage the establishment in our country of migratory flows from other countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Surprisingly, the PSD has marked for today this debate on policies for childhood and birth—and this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed surprising. The same ones who, in such a recent past, cut family income and social support, increased unemployment, promoted precariousness and destroyed our economy, now come to try to 'wash the face' of all the damage they caused our country in the years in which they were government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The austerity policy carried out by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS cost Portugal about 20 000 children a year and seriously aggravated the numbers of child poverty. Further, according to the 2013 Report, prepared by the Family and Family Policy Observatory ( OFAP ), during the previous PSD / CDS coalition government, « there is no longer any explicit national family policy ». What to say more about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, who so much likes to come to the land to demand the other applications for apology, should, yes, have addressed this forum today to the Portuguese and Portuguese, apologizing to them for all the destruction of the economy and thousands of jobs,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u70	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u71	...for the damage caused to thousands of lives, damages, these, often irreparable. But no! Surprisingly, the PSD went up to this rostrum and pretended, it pretended to care about families, children and births, when, in fact, it doesn't care. And he is not concerned because, when he was a government, he cut into social support, cut into family incomes, substantially exacerbating levels of poverty and, above all, of child poverty. In addition, it is seen that the PSD continues to be unable to understand one essential thing: policies to promote birth and support families cannot be considered without, together, forecasting the increase in the available income of these same families and the fight against precarious work, in defense of job stability,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as well as ensuring the existence of efficient and effective social support in promoting reconciliation between professional and family life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current government has not only increased family allowances as it has extended its scope, increased national minimum wage and put an end to cuts in family income. Whenever the Socialist Party was a government, there was a strong commitment to expanding the network of family support equipment and services...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u72	Not always!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u73	... and in the introduction of solutions that would allow better reconciliation between work and family life, of which today is still an example the incentive to share parental leave. It is precisely in the reconciliation between family life and working life that we must now focus our attention. This is precisely the aspect to be taken into account in the future, when we talk about policies to support families and promote birth. The current government is once again paying attention to the reality and well aware of this need and even more than a week ago, at the end of a meeting with social consultation, our Prime Minister has launched the challenge to the social partners so that, together, a broad consensus is reached on implementing measures that promote effective reconciliation between family life and working life. This is the position that the Socialist Party defends, as it has always defended in the past: the strategy of promoting birth must be the subject of an extended reflection, and the measures to be adopted should be the result of a joint work between the various areas of society, which necessarily presupposes the involvement of all political parties, of all society and also of the social partners. It is this social dialogue that needs to be enhanced in the search for lasting commitments that allow them to define a serious strategy based on concrete and truly effective measures in promoting birth in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of birth must go beyond this Chamber and must be beyond the action of the Government. The promotion of birth and child support policies should be a national design. Families who already have children or those who want to have them, or even more, cannot continue to be harmed at work and at work because they have to take on their parental and family responsibilities. It is urgent to bring the number of children that people have as many children as they would like to have. News has also recently come to the public that tells us that most employers have failed to comply with the law, by not recognizing the parents of children up to the age of 12 the right to time flexibility. Having children or wanting to have children cannot continue to be an obstacle to the professional life of workers and workers, especially younger ones. And it cannot continue to be a factor of negative discrimination. Families, especially those with children, and young children, must be cared for. On the one hand, we cannot continue to regret because there are no babies and there are no children and, on the other hand, to discriminate negatively against those who have children, because there are those who think they have less availability or who are less dedicated or dedicated or, still, because they are often absent from work to be able to support their children. Families with children, or families who want to have them, must be supported and protected by all of us, because, in fact, by every new child born, it is the future of Portugal that is reborn. Let it be clear that no one decides to have the second or more children just because there is more time at home in the first months of life of babies. Make it clear that no one decides to have children or more just because parental leave is longer. We need to do a lot more than that! Support for the family should, yes, be done throughout the lives of children: increasing the income available from families; strengthening family benefits; access to a universal child support system, with day care and kindergartens, which reaches all; access to quality public education and adequate health care. This, yes, is what should mobilize us. And it's no good for the PSD to go up to this rostrum and pretend that he's now worried about families and birth. The PS, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been calling for this function for a long time. The Portuguese and Portuguese know well, they know very well, indeed, all that you have done, and also what you have not done, in the past legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u74	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u75	Mr President, Mrs Carla Tavares, for us, PSD, the issue of childhood and birth is too serious for us to be held in the past without discussing the present. The gentlemen. PS Members, not only insist on reviving the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u76	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u77	We in the PSD are much more concerned about the future. We all know, sirs. Members, that one of the main challenges facing Portuguese society is the demographic challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u79	This is a problem that is not solved in the short term, but it is urgent to find solutions so that the declining trend of birth can be mitigated or even reversed. There is a demographic problem, we know the diagnosis — which is, in fact, consensual — and therefore we have to move forward towards solutions. We can't be delaying any more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is the future of the country that is at stake and our responsibility to the Portuguese demands us to give an answer. And we, PSD, presented that answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u81	We have presented a package of measures which are, by all, known. But we don't stay there, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, the PSD has launched a challenge and proposes a broad, constructive debate, without closed decisions, in a spirit of commitment, to be done a serious, joint, consistent work on combating demographic decline.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u83	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has already presented measures which we do not delude! — they have costs. But the question must be put differently, because the problem is how much it costs to do nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u85	It's less time to do good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u86	And to that question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we answer: nothing to do costs more than 100 000 emigrants per year! [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, because the economic miracle announced by your government was not enough to keep the Portuguese out of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u88	Nothing to do, sirs. Members, it costs children with little cognitive development; nothing to do, Mr. Members, it is a cost of non-generational renewal; nothing to do would call into question the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u89	That's what they did in the four and a half years they were in the government! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u90	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is in defining priorities for expenditure. It does not solve the problem. Stability is needed, long-term policies are needed, and that is why we are talking about convergence, because the solutions found must last beyond a legislature. But it is important to know what the Socialist Party really thinks. And the questions that we would like to ask are the following: for the Socialist Party, the solution to the problem of demography is unique and mainly in the capture of 75,000 emigrants per year? [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] Is this the solution they present? Is this the instrument that they consider most important to overcome the demographic deficit?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u91	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u92	Are you or are you not willing to contribute and participate in this extended debate? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u93	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u94	Mr President, Mrs Susana Lamas is indeed distracted! [[Laughter of PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] And I say you're distracted because you didn't listen carefully to my speech. And you did not hear, from the outset, when I said that the Socialist Party has already made the diagnosis—and the diagnosis is in fact consensual—and that the challenge for seeking and launching measures to promote birth and support childhood policies, in particular with regard to family conciliation policies, has already been launched by the Prime Minister, just a little longer a week ago, at the end of the social consultation meeting. And it is there, Mrs Deputies, the very place to launch a debate at national level, to launch a debate that opens up everyone, which covers all political parties and all sectors of our society. That's why, Mrs. Member, it's late! In fact, our Prime Minister has already come forward. But, Mrs Deputy, I asked you the following: how much did the country cost the four and a half years of PSD/CDS government, Mrs Deputy? How much did it cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u95	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u96	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u97	And the PS bankruptcy, how much did it cost? Oh, my God! It cost 79 billion! It cost 79 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u98	At least!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u99	As for the rest, the Socialist Party is very clear: the policies for promoting birth cannot be limited to the far-reaching measures of the former PSD Government and the CDS or to those which, now, the Social Democratic Party wanted to present to this Parliament; we must take into account the whole economic framework, all the support that must be given to families, the increase in the quality of employment, the increase in employment, the increase in family income. That, yes, Mrs. Member, must be the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u100	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the 2011 election campaign, the President of the CDS-PP presented one of his campaign flags: the family visa. And the family visa, and I will quote the President of the Party at that time: "any initiative which is adopted in the Council of Ministers requires an assessment of the impact it has on family life and the stimulation of birth". The family visa never saw him, but we knew what happened after: it had not yet been a year and the PSD and the CDS were already changing the Labour Code in an aggressive anti-natal and anti-family operation, the change of labour law in 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u102	What is now generating jobs is changes to the Labour Code!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u103	What is cutting incomes but a policy against families? Oh, my God! What is the bank of hours, even above tax, without any collective bargaining, but a way of breaking up with the ability that people have to reconcile their family life with their profession, due to the imposition of 10 hours a day? Oh, my God! What was the extension of the duration of contracts of very short duration — which extended from one week to 15 days — but rather a way of promoting precariousness, a way of putting people, particularly young people, into a state of standby? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u104	Turn to the Socialist Party bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u105	What is it to cut off holidays and holidays but a way to take time for family life and personal life? Oh, my God! What is it to emigration people but to promote disrespect for the younger and the disrespect for those who live here and also a way of emptying the country? Oh, my God! Almost at the end of the Legislature in April 2015 the PSD and the CDS jointly presented a bill on birth, which, in fact, reminds you of some of the things that Mrs Clara Marques Mendes said here. The PSD and CDS presented a project in April 2015 to create an Interdisciplinary Permanent Specialized Commission for Christmas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u107	Madam Member, that committee still exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u108	Ah! It exists! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u109	The Interdisciplinary Standing Committee for Christmas, which resulted from Bill No. 870 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) the PSD and the CDS still exist within the Economic and Social Council on a proposal from the two parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u110	And then? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u111	Not a word on this Commission? Don't they say anything? Doesn't matter? Have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u112	They don't know anything! It's not with them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u113	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, quite frankly. Members are the first not to take your own proposals seriously. I repeat : you are the first to not take your own proposals seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u114	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u115	But let us talk about the present and the future, because there are measures currently under discussion in this Parliament, and it was interesting to know how the PSD will vote. How will the PSD vote, for example, the Left Block project that extends the protection of pregnant, puerperous and lactating women during the experimental period, in which there is no type of protection, not even an opinion of the ISCED, which is mandatory? Oh, my God! Nothing! How will the PSD vote? How will the PSD and CDS vote on the extension of the initial parental leave for 180 days, as BE proposes? We have already had this debate! The Left Block has already submitted this project which is under discussion to the vote on 1 July 2016 and the PSD has not voted in favour. But it is now precisely proposing the extension of parental leave for 180 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u116	Integrated, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u117	With a difference: it is that, for the PSD, sharing between men and women is not a criterion and we strongly disagree about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u119	More: this proposal reminds us of the proposal of the PSD and the CDS to promote birth, which was the middle of the day, to send women home. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of birth is not at the expense of macho prejudices and the reproduction of sexual division of labour, particularly domestic work.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u121	That's right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u122	But the PSD's proposal is a lying proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u123	Manhosa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u124	Why? Because the PSD, in its report, drawn up by the National Strategic Council ( CEN ), proposes the possibility of extending the licence up to one year — six more months, beyond 182 days — but extending it without any additional payment. It says the PSD that the goal is to “(...) parents/ mothers who wish to follow their children’s first year of life”. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little offensive! It is not for parents and mothers who wish to do so, because if people do not have incomes, of course, they cannot extend the licence without any support whatsoever. And worse: this proposal has as its counterpart ending the license that exists today, the extended parental allowance, which has a very small value — we argue that it must be greater — but that it has some value. What the PSD proposes in its National Strategic Council document is precisely a license without any maturity. I would like to end, not only with a reference to the great omission of this debate and of the PSD document, because there was no word on employment, on precariousness, on the right to housing — indeed, what is reserved for the reconciliation between family and personal life and for intervention in the world of work is to allow companies to benefit from Community funds for day care, that is the only measure they have, nothing on labour legislation! — but also to the one who seems to me to be the big mistake in the document of the National Strategic Council of the PSD. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes said nothing about the PSD's proposal to end the family allowance and the prenatal allowance, replacing them with a « baby check», which is a cut in support of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u125	But what "baby check"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u126	Mrs. Deputy, is cutting support? Since when is cutting support? The policy proposed by the PSD, with this check—...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u127	It's no check!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u128	... which represents a cut that, within the limit and in the first three years, can go up to EUR 4000 for single-parent families, I repeat, a cut of EUR 4000 for what they receive today—is a regression policy, which affects the incomes of the poorest family aggregates, of the most numerous families, of the single-parent families and which means, therefore, to return to a policy that existed before, which was the policy of the court. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has already had four years of this and, indeed, these proposals which the PSD does not present here — perhaps because it does not have the courage to turn into bills so that we can discuss them concretely and vote— reveal only that the new PSD, after all, is equal, or worse, to the old PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u129	It's better than the Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u130	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country already knows you! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u131	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records a PSD entry for a request for clarification, but Mr José Soeiro does not have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u132	If the PSD gives us time...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u133	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u134	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u135	Mr President, if it is not to be discounted in the negative time of the Left Block, the PSD will give the Left Block 30 seconds to respond to Mrs Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u136	Yes, sir, but it's discounting! If you have negative time it has to be discounted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u137	So, Mr President, we give you 30 seconds and then you will have two seconds in the electronic table, which is the time needed for Mr José Soeiro to respond. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u138	Mr. Adam Silva, then at least 45 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u139	Okay, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u140	I would therefore ask the services that have transferred 45 seconds of the time that the PSD still has for the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to make the request for clarification, Mrs Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Moura Soeiro, the demographic winter and ageing of the population are perhaps the most serious imbalance Portugal currently faces. The demographic problem in Portugal is one of the most serious obstacles that we must all be aware of and seek solutions to overcome it. And in no way, or resolve, criticize or remain in the past. After the diagnosis is found and validated, it becomes imperative to have a serious debate with concrete measures capable of inverting this grave situation, which is not resolved with timely measures but, rather, with structural and appropriate reforms, whose application gradually leads to positive and crucial results, medium and long-term, in the lives of current and new generations. I would therefore like to ask, in particular, whether or not the Left Block accompanies the need for an integrated policy for childhood and birth which constitutes a national design. What does the Left Block think about, for example, as the PSD proposes about the freeness of day care from 6 months of age? Would you rather keep watching parents pay more for a daycare than for a university for their children? What does the Left Block think about the creation of day care centres at the company level or through other institutions, as well as about improving the conditions of operation of kindergartens, a logic for reconciling professional life with personal life, and part of the financing of these measures will certainly occur because of its impact on efficiency gains in the education system, due to the lower probability of school retention, involving lower costs to the State? Oh, my God! Whether or not the Left Block is available for a serious debate involving consistent measures that create equal opportunities and prevent the emigration of about 100 000 young people per year, according to current official data,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u142	You mustn't be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u143	... young people with excellent qualifications who are looking for living conditions that are not present—and I am not talking about the past! — in Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u144	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u145	It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stand by, we must look at this situation as a whole, because the children are not numbers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u146	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u147	...are children and must have the necessary and fundamental conditions for their full development in the present, to be able to win the country in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u148	You have the floor to answer, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u149	Mr President, first of all, I thank the PSD for the time given. Mrs Rocha, the Bloc proposals are known: we have recently discussed a legislative initiative, which has been brought down to the Commission on the guarantee of daycare for all children; we have presented a proposal on the extension of parental leave; and a proposal on the protection of children with disabilities and the parents and mothers of these children is also under discussion in the Commission. Therefore, the left block proposals have been delivered and are being worked, the unknown is about whether the PSD, which will have the opportunity to vote very soon, will or will not support them. What we stand for is clear; what is not clear, because the PSD has not yet spoken, is how its proposal, which configures the end of the family allowance, a cut in the income of the poorest families, a cut in the income of single-parent families, in support of birth support, can be presented as a proposal to promote birth. Mrs Deputies, this was interesting to clarify until the end of the debate, because I have already asked this question twice and twice the PSD has said nothing about it, which not only confirms the elements in the document prepared by the National Strategic Council, and the accounts made by several newspapers, as it means that the PSD is ashamed of its own proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u150	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u151	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The words we hear here today by the PSD and the CDS do not remove the enormous responsibilities they have for, by throwing thousands of workers into poverty, they have pushed their families and their children into this situation. by the hands of the PSD and the CDS were cut wages, pensions, social benefits, the family allowance was withdrawn to hundreds of thousands of children, the special education allowance was cut, schools, valences and health services were closed, harming families and children. And these responsibilities do not go away, because the disastrous and profound consequences of these policies are still felt today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The growth and harmonious development of children are inseparable from measures that guarantee conditions for parents to exercise their own responsibilities, while at the same time the State should assume its obligations in the special protection of children. The fulfilment of fundamental rights of children is inseparable from the guarantee of the working rights of parents, from the fight against precariousness, from wage discrimination and from the deregulation of working hours, which have adversely affected children, because the limitation and impediment between professional, family and personal life translates into the impossibility of working parents to accompany their children, to the impossibility of decent working hours, for time to live, for parents and children to live together. It is inseparable from the fulfilment and deepening of the rights of motherhood and paternity, the value of wages, the increase of the national minimum wage to raise the living conditions of families and, thus, of children. It is inseparable from measures that guarantee access to decent housing and public and quality education, so that all children, regardless of their characteristics, origins and conditions, learn together in public schools in their communities. It is inseparable from full access to health care and all treatments, medication and necessary treatments, regardless of economic and social conditions. It is inseparable from the access to services and equipment to support public childhood, quality and proximity, the strengthening of the social protection of children and young people, the effective fight against child poverty, with a view to their eradication. On all these matters, and also on others, the CFP has been continually and insistent on several proposals. On a proposal from the CFP, the creation of the national committee on the rights of children and young people is under discussion, which aims to fill a gap and create an institutional space for continuous and ongoing analysis of children and their reality. We proposed that the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school should be studied and evaluated, considering the benefits for children and their development, identified in particular by the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics ( SPP ). We proposed strengthening primary health care, particularly in children's health, defending, in addition to doctor and family nurse for all children, the integration of pediatric physicians into primary health care, as well as access to consultations on psychology, nutrition, visual and oral health. We have tabled proposals for strengthening the rights and conditions of follow-up to children in situations of cancer, chronic illness, as well as accidents or hospital admission. We have proposed the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights, the extension of leave, the deepening of the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating women, the creation of a specific preterm leave or hospital admission for newborns. We spoke with measures to combat child poverty, strengthen the CPCJ's means of protecting children and young people, implement the universality of pre-school education for all children from 3 years of age, and the existence of a public network of day care and child support equipment that responds to the needs of children and families. I fear that we will be beaten and we will continue to be beaten by the strengthening and enlargement of the family allowance, with a view to its universality. Family allowance is a right of the child and is assumed as a sign of the duty of protection of the State of children and young people, in promoting their most basic rights. The broad and cross-sectional intervention of the CFP is a demonstration not only of the concern and attention that we deserve this subject but also of the way in which it is important to follow, a way of raising the living conditions of families and in which the State effectively assumes its responsibilities in the context of its social functions. The CFP will be here, as it has always been, beating not only for what is enshrined in the role to have expression in everyday life but also for it to go further in defending the best interests of the child and its integral development, fighting and intervening so that children are guaranteed the right to be children and also the right to be happy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u153	The Bureau shall not register any entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Diana Ferreira or for interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u154	The PSD then closes the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u155	Yes, yes, the PSD will close the debate if there are no more entries. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Shortly before its closure by the PSD, this debate has already confirmed the extemporaneous and speedy form as the PSD has tried to mark the agenda with its birth measures. The number is done, it was done this afternoon, but everything else is missing for a consistent policy. We have the agenda, but everything else is missing: we lack the proposals, we lack the accounting of the measures, we lack the studies that support them and, above all, we lack what we do not have and which the PSD has not given in this debate, which is an idea of society that guides these measures to promote birth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As no project has been scheduled for this debate, we cannot speak strictly about what the PSD has scheduled but has not supported. We know only what was previously disclosed by the PSD as a guide document—and, by the way, the honourable Members. Members have no more to add, which is little and still can have problems, some of which have already been discussed this afternoon. You want the single payment of an IAS (indicating social support) to all pregnant women up to the seventh month of pregnancy, but you do not say that this conflicts with the prenatal allowance, which is already in force. You point to an extension of the licence paid up to 26 weeks, but you do not say that this increase reveals a conservative view, because there is no margin in your proposal for extending the licence shared, going to the clumsy path that we have seen to involve women and men as caregivers of your children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You provide for the allocation of an annual allowance up to the age of 18, but do not say that this necessarily implies the elimination of family allowance and that this poor allowance will be applied without a condition of resources and no increase due to economic precariousness or family fragility, leaving still outside — now — the 238 000 beneficiaries of the family allowance who are over 18 years old, who today have this allowance guaranteed. By the way, how much is it? We don't know either! You point out, for example, the freeness of day care, without a duty of frequency, but excludes food, excludes transport, excludes additional services. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how are the families that have no income? For these families, it is of no value to be free and the PSD argument on freedom of choice for families with less resources falls to the ground, until in this legislature, you had the opportunity to follow up a proposal to improve school social support in the acquisition of school textbooks and study visits and could take advantage of the debate this afternoon to explain why you did not do so when you could have done it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in addition to these problems and the cost of these and other measures, which we can all anticipate that it will never be less than EUR 2200 million—the PSD would agree to explain where it is going to look for them—we have a fundamental and decisive difference with the PSD in approaching these issues. You have not yet realized - and in the debate this afternoon, I do not think we are clear - that if the birth policies are shut off from the measures preventing the decision to have children, then they will not take effect. And here, the PSD has always been on the side of the problem, never on the side of the solutions. This is the fundamental problem that divides us, this is what separates us. in the last Fecundity Survey, the reasons that the Portuguese pointed out to have no children, or to have no more than one child, were those that result from the policies that you have governed and that you have already defended and subscribed to this legislation, because you cannot see that for the Portuguese to have more children, we have to invest in income reinforcement, we have to combat precariousness, we have to give them work stability and we have to increase social support already existing. You want the Portuguese to have more children, but they have defended a low-wage policy, and in this legislature they have already voted against the increase in the national minimum wage. Why? [[P.S.'s applause.]] You want a social replacement support, but did not follow, soon in 2016, neither the increase in family allowance nor the bonus of disability allowance, while we approved several portals for increased family allowance: first increase in family allowance in 2016 ; second increase in family allowance also in 2016 ; third increase in family allowance in 2017 ; fourth increase in family allowance in 2018. The families who receive these bonuses know what the PS has done for them and that you have not accompanied them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u157	Now they're distracted, whispering to the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u158	But you did more: they cut pensions and cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly (CSI), and many of them supported children with grandchildren. The gentlemen, together with the CDS, launched a time bomb on the lease market that prevents many young couples, families who need to have children, from renting homes in the main Portuguese cities. You speak of supporting young adults of childbearing age, but do not advocate the job stability that these young people need, for more than a period of their lives that coincides with the most decisive years in the decision to have children, an age that coincides, not by chance, with that of many precarious workers who refused to regularize in this Assembly of the Republic, voting against PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ). This was a good opportunity to explain also why they did it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this and much more, sirs. PSD members, it's not enough to wear lamb's skin to stop being a wolf. More than policies, you have to define which model of society you want and, as far as this is concerned, the Portuguese already know what they are counting on, we do not need any possible committee. For the Socialist Party, the challenge of public policies in this area is to support the conscious decision of parenthood around clear axes that we subscribe and reiterate at the end of this debate. First, investment in family support structures, giving priority to early childhood; secondly, income policy, social support and tax measures to support families, those that the CDS does not perceive—particularly, at the level of the family coefficient, the CDS does not understand why families had a jackpot in the IRS (tax on the income of individuals) this year. Mr. Filipe Anacoreta, they had a jackpot because of the measures that the PS has implemented and that you contest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third axis, reconciliation of professional, family and private life; fourth axis, combating precariousness; fifth axis, right to housing. In addition to these — and I shall finish, Mr President — we cannot now ignore the return of migrants and immigration to the demographic challenge, a policy that must be necessarily anchored and founded on the values of humanism and tolerance, which we often do not see in the parties on the right. The strategy of the PS and the Government to address the challenge of birth is framed within the strategy that we have come to draw in all the State budgets of this legislature: employment recovery, wage recovery, social support strengthening, redistribution of income and the dynamisation of social dialogue. Without this, sirs. Members, there will never be success in child support policies, and it was this debate that the PSD failed this afternoon, showing itself unable to stand alongside those who advocate extended, consensualized solutions capable of producing lasting effects on Portuguese society. It would have been a good opportunity, Mrs. Member, but it was really a great opportunity lost. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u159	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by welcoming the PSD for this schedule. Finally, one more of the political-party spectrum comes to meet the concerns of the CDS, which has manifested them for a long time. There's someone... [[PS protests.]] Not to challenge the rosary of the CDS proposals in this area — Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has explained recently — but to stop at some and remind me of them, remunerating the accusations that you have left us on this matter, I would like to say the following: what did you do to our proposal on the increase in the number of cycles of treatment of the LDCs (assisted drug procreation)? Chumbaram! What have you done to our proposal for the allocation of benefits of IRC (couple income tax) for companies that have family-responsible behaviour? Chumbaram! What have you done to our proposal on extending parental leave? Chumbaram! What did you do to our proposal on extending parental leave to grandparents? Chumbaram! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u161	And what did they do to grandparents? They cut their pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u162	What have you done to our proposal on telework regulation? Chumbaram! What have you done to our proposal to simplify day-care hours? Chumbaram!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u163	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u164	And what have you done to our proposal on increasing parental benefit? Lead, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Down, down and down! [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u165	That has been all they have done so far with regard to birth policies and the results are clear and fully in view. That's all they did! [[CDS-PP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are sorry to shake flags, because in this area they have done absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u166	Chumbaram!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u167	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the demographic issue and the issue of birth in Europe, and in Portugal in particular, are true stories of an announced tragedy. If we're going on charges—who did what and who promised what, or who rejected more or who rejected less—we clearly arrive at very little. And so consensus must be made here and bridges must be made. France, a calendar country in this area, has already seen its birth rate decrease for three consecutive years. You know why? According to the demographics of the famous Sorbonne school in Paris, because the governments of Holland and Macron have reversed all the policies that have been implemented for several years in France, these policies that the CDS has followed with its proposals. This, at least this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you should let them think about which way to go. Therefore, it is our obligation that all of us in this House should make the demographic issue and the question of birth a genuine national design. We know it's difficult, but it's not impossible. The model is proven and has known results. We know that it takes time—so, the faster the better—and we know that it costs money and that resources are scarce. But if politics is the art of possible, as someone knew, it is also surely the art of choices. And the CDS has made its choices for a long time, and the issues of birth and demographic are at their head. So welcome to the debate. I hope they move on quickly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u168	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something with which the CFP does not compact it is in fact with this exercise of whitening the responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS in relation to the birth policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u171	I remember the family visa. We have never heard of family visas in relation to the policies and measures of the PSD/CDS government. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Or would the family visa be cut in wages? Or the cut in social benefits? Or the deregulation of working hours? The family visa served to make life difficult for young people and workers, effectively preventing them from having the number of children they would like and wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u172	You called the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u173	These were your policy responsibilities, particularly those related to births. Today they are talking about a set of measures, but when they had responsibilities, not only did they not implement any of these measures, as they still aggravated the situation, through a set of options of instability, of precariousness, among young people. They even invited young people to emigrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u174	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u175	Today, the PSD spoke about the problems of emigration, saying that many young people are still leaving our country. It is a fact, it is a worrying reality, but the first to invite them to leave our country was the PSD/CDS government. This is your responsibility in matters of birth! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u176	You called the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u177	That is why we cannot, in this debate today, compact this exercise of pure hypocrisy and demagogy on these matters. What are they bringing us today? They always speak in a set of measures and ideas. And there comes part-time work, but they forget to mention that wages are also part-time. And what families can choose for this type of solution? They talk about the rigidity of working hours, when they were responsible for their deregulation, forcing children to spend hours and hours and hours running in day care because their parents have no other opportunity or conditions to be able to monitor their development. They are testing here a deeply retrograde perspective on the role of women in the world of work, in society, and also on the social function of maternity. They speak for benefits, so that companies will comply with what is in the law today. It is, in fact, brilliant the set of measures and solutions that lead to this debate with regard to birth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u179	... but forget what their root causes are, there is a need to combat low wages, to regulate working hours, to combat precariousness, to strengthen motherhood and paternity, to strengthen the rights of children and parents. The CFP today brought here a set of concrete proposals which it presented in the Assembly of the Republic and on these we have not heard a word. We believe that a policy that assumes the social function of motherhood and paternity and the realization of a motherhood and a conscious, free and responsible fatherhood is the solution. We also consider that it is the solution to adopting a policy that protects children and young people and promotes their integral development; that it guarantees the right of the child to be desired and loved, as well as the economic and social conditions to be assured of all opportunities; that it guarantees the living conditions of families, ensuring that women play an active role in society on a professional basis compatible with family and personal plans. We also believe that it is the solution to adopting a policy that guarantees workers' rights and employment with rights, the value of wages and salaries, the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights, access to the social functions of the State, the right to a decent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u180	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u181	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. And it is not by chance that the last time there was a significant increase in birth in our country, contrary to the declining trend, was soon after 25 April, a significant moment of raising the living conditions of the people and of enormous confidence and hope in the future. Therefore, ensuring dignified living conditions, trust and stability are the options and essential paths for a better future for generations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u182	To close the debate on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the PSD Parliamentary Group agreed to schedule this power debate, it did so because it considered it crucial to reverse the worrying demographic framework that makes Portugal the 6. the oldest country in the world and 5. the oldest in Europe. It is noteworthy that today, for every 160 elderly people, there are only 100 young people. I'm not gonna make any more diagnoses. We all know that this matter must be equationd as a matter of national design. No one will be surprised that the PSD, a defender of a humanist society, is concerned—as has always been concerned—with this matter. in this sense, we bear in mind that it is necessary to support the Portuguese so that they can decide to have children and not to bid farewell to their second child. It is therefore essential to support these couples on a cost-effective basis, ensuring the free, progressive and responsible access to equipment. We all know how imperative labour flexibility is, too, in order to enable greater reconciliation between work and family, or even the awareness of companies for social responsibility that they represent having day care. It is clear that it is not only because of the creation of monetary incentives that contradicts the postponement of maternity. As Jeanne Fagnani, a sociologist emeritus, who for years has been a consultant to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), an expert in family policies in France, « the most important of the French case is the stability of policies because it creates confidence in people ». Alongside this, there is the promotion of « policies that create a wide network of childcare services that enable women to have a career and leave their children without guilt ». France has long drawn a goal: to help parents have children. And it's kept going, regardless of governments. Therefore, it is confidence in a favorable environment that has a structural and sustainable effect on birth. This is what Portugal has to do, but our current system of support does not favour the second and third children, nor does political instability. in the family allowance, it is sufficient to consult the latest statistics to see that the highest proportion of beneficiaries, 43 %, corresponds to couples with only one child, those who venture in the second child represent only 5 % of the beneficiaries and those who do not benefit represent 34 %. In other words, in addition to being from countries with the least contribution of social support to childhood, we have a model that favours « single children ». It takes courage to change policy and wide-ranging views in order to realize the extent of investment, but we are concerned about inaction, it scares us to see inertia, navigation in view of the political choices of this government and the parties that support it. Those who read the great options of the current government plan are written, precisely in point 5, Mrs. Idália Serrão, « reacting to the demographic challenge », which, and I quote, « Portugal is distinguished by the worst reasons », that « Without changing policies, Portugal will live a heavy retreat of its population(...) in active age» and that therefore the action of the Government should cover: birth, creating public conditions for the exercise of responsible parenthood and promoting reconciliation between work and family; return of migrants; and the attraction of immigrants. of these three bets, the government has chosen the easiest way, which is the rapid legalization of immigrants. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u184	It's not being right! It's a shame you come with this speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u185	As the subject of immigration is one of the keys to the problem, it is manifestly insufficient and too simplistic to fulfil that desire alone. The Government forgets the importance of creating conditions for young Portuguese so that they do not leave the country. One hundred thousand young people come out, despite the "economic miracle"... Although the capture of immigrants is the most immediate way to contribute to the rejuvenation of the population and to the increase in birth, this is a major measure proposed by the Government. [[PS and PCP protests.]] The same PS that says "Reacting to the demographic challenge" has been informative and contradictory. He voted against family visa in all policies of the previous Government and voted against the amendment to the General Law on Public Works, which enshrined a new form of working hours, half a day. It was a fair measure, favouring conciliation and even optional, but the PS voted against. More: as soon as it reached the government, with the BE and the PCP — its partners — the PS revoked the family quotient in the IRS, which reduced the tax by the number of children, a measure that was also fair. They revoked it for pure prejudice and ideological whim.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u186	It wasn't an ideological whim!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u187	As a Member of Parliament, Minister Vieira da Silva said he was very concerned, and I quote, "with the demographic evolution of enormous gravity, an alarming situation..."...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u188	And...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u189	......... resulting from the economic crisis that has marked our collective life for too long (...) ', end of quote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u190	This was the best part of your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u191	For now Mr Minister, who has found a country in economic growth, who has inherited a country without a « macula», without the rope to the neck, without the financial asphyxiation of the bankruptcy of a government which was also his, has the protection of social security, but is no longer alarmed—in fact, it is no longer with him. We have found, therefore, that one of the traps of this theme of demography and birth support is even the left parties, as we have seen today, to be hostage to the identity obsession and to have prejudices about the ideas of others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u192	Mrs. Members, a long-term and structural birth policy is only committed to an integrated policy that consistently supports the contributions of all parties to this House. The country demands that we leave biased prejudices, we have the capacity to overcome electoralisms and sterile rivalries so we can all row to the same side, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The PSD gave here once again today the kickoff with concrete ideas. It is up to the parties of the government not to be caught in ideological mischievousness or the backbone of the tactical decision — only tactics! I end by quoting St. Augustine that said that Man was created so that there would be a beginning, because, when a child was born, it is not only us who are born again, it is humanity who is born again. We have the dare to let Portugal be reborn, if possible by the decisions we have taken now, in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-06-27.u193	With this intervention, I declare the debate required by the PSD on policies for childhood and birth. I only tell the House that the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m., with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 809 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Expand sources of social security financing ( CFP ). This is a legislative agenda, alerted to by the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the eventuality of a vote at the end of the debate. Good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 53 minutes.]]
