ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. We will begin the first point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Bills Nos 835 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recognizes that compensation interest is due when undue payment of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards and 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the obligation to pay interest compensation when the collection of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards ( Forty-sixth amendment to the General Tax Law ). To present the draft law of the authorship of the PSD, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The PSD is now presenting a bill that entered this House last April and which reports to an interpretative standard in relation to Article 43. the LGT ( General Tax Law ). Why? Because the interpretation of this standard is an interpretation that creates a circumstance of profound injustice with regard to the responsibility of the State and the responsibility of the taxpayers. Under the General Tax Law, if a taxpayer delays in the settlement of the tax, then it will be due to interest payable to the State. The citizen is held responsible for any delay. However, the interpretation of this law, following a declaration of unconstitutionality for the collection of a tax or a fee, in this case, of the civil protection rate, which does not effectively have a nature of tax but tax, was that, in fact, the refund of amounts wrongly paid by taxpayers would not be accompanied by interest compensation. This happened in the declarations of unconstitutionality that affected decisions made by several municipalities, including the municipality of Lisbon, which could thus be financed for about two years and, with this interpretation, the zero rate, through the benefits that were wrongly demanded by the taxpayers. The PSD in the City Hall of Lisbon, since the first day, has invoked the unconstitutionality of this norm. However, the City Council of Lisbon, and others, decided to persist in collecting this benefit to taxpayers and so on for two years until the then Ombudsman referred the diploma to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court declared unconstitutionality without any restriction of effects. from here it would naturally occur that the EUR 58 million wrongly charged by the City Council of Lisbon should be immediately returned to the municipalities, but accompanied by compensation for damages due to the illegality committed by the City Council of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u3	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u4	I will now finish, Mr President. This was not the interpretation that was made and the returns were not accompanied by compensating interest, which means that we are in a situation of manifest injustice and imbalance between the taxpayers' obligations and the city's obligations, in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u5	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u6	For this reason, the PSD here clarifys, by means of an interpretative standard, this requirement of fulfilling responsibility on the part of the municipality or state, in any circumstances, in the case of declaration of unconstitutionality, which here is shocking. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u7	To present the CDS-PP bill, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we have in mind relate to the relationship between the state and the taxpayer, the citizen. There are issues of fairness, of seriousness, of responsibility between these two parties. Tax administration must be, and has been, very demanding with those who are in breach of their tax obligations, but must also give assurances to those taxpayers who are zealous and fulfilling.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u10	Non-compliant taxpayers have to pay interest, but when it is on the contrary, when it is the wrong State, when it is the State that applies something that is illegal and often unfair and unconstitutional, the State must also pay those same interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u11	And pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u12	As an example, in relation to the municipal civil protection rate in Lisbon, which has already been discussed here, the Ombudsman felt that it was not a fee that was concerned but rather a tax and asked the Constitutional Court to appreciate its constitutionality. The final result: it came to be unconstitutional. The CDS, among other political parties, presented an initiative in the Chamber of Lisbon declaring the fee unconstitutional and demanding that the unfair and immoral rate should be terminated. But the President of the Chamber of Lisbon, Fernando Medina, understood to continue on his theimosia and on his path. It is true that for two years that City Hall raised 58 million euros that were undue and the Libyan taxpayers were financing the Authority in an absolutely involuntary way. Therefore, in the end, it was normal for these EUR 58 million to be returned with interest, because the decision was wrong, it was unfair, it was unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u13	If he paid interest it was illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u14	Only those who had the financial capacity to bear the legal costs had access to compensatory interest, which created a situation of enormous injustice. Thus, there are 26 000 municips who did not ask for the refund or refund of the fee they had paid, i.e. about five million euros are in the municipal safes and which should not be, because it is money from these taxpayers. This is an unfair situation, it is not correct and must be corrected. Allow me to give you a very quick example: a private sector company has wrongly received a value from the Tax Authority. Noting the error, he contacted the Tax Authority and said: « I want to return this value». The Tax Authority said: "No. The values are correct, you don't have to return."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u15	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u16	I'm done now, Mr. President. Next, the company concerned, advised by its lawyers, said: "No, we're going to court to say that we want to return this to the state." Court decision: No, you do not have to return to the State, because the State does not want to receive that amount. After a few months, they receive a letter from the Tribune Authority saying: "My dear friends, you have this value in debt, more interest..."
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u17	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u18	They then entered the list of State debtors, which has created a huge problem for them. We cannot have a state that is an enemy of the citizen, we must have a State that is a friend of the citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u19	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u20	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that these bills protect the dignity and image of the State, whether at national, local or regional level. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u21	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings the debate to a bill that clarifys, with an interpretative character, the duty of public authorities to pay interest payable for undue tax benefits, for its collection if it has been based on rules declared judicially unconstitutional or illegal. The CDS subsequently presented another bill in exactly the same sense. The General Tax Act determines that interest is due for a stay when a taxpayer does not pay the tax due in the legal period — Article 44. the General Tax Law. in the same way, Article 43. this Act states that compensation interest is due when it is determined, in a graceful complaint or judicial challenge, that there was an error imputable to the services that result in payment of tax debt in excess of the amount legally due or in other situations specified in the law. That is to say, the principle of reciprocity applies here, as it could never be, and this is already in law. The draft laws under discussion do not alter this principle of reciprocity, only in order to clarify, with an interpretative character, that compensation interest is also due in situations where payment of a tax benefit is subsequently declared illegal or unconstitutional by judicial decision passed in court. It is clear to us that, in these situations, the unduly paid tax must be returned, together with the corresponding compensation interest. The CFP will therefore accompany this amendment to the General Tax Law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u23	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party considers that taxpayers have the right to draw back unduly paid benefits, plus interest in compensation to which it takes place, and the reconstitution of the situation which would exist should the unconstitutional or legal rule never be in force. The Socialist Party defends taxpayers' rights, fiscal justice and tax legality. It is good here to remember, for example, that the Socialist Party fought alone, with the votes against the right, to avoid the collapse of the taxpayers' homes of the family home.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u26	Here is a good example of the principles that we defend and that we will continue to defend in the bills in appreciation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u28	The question of the recognition of the right to compensation interest where the undue payment of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal rules is not new, I repeat, it is not new. It has merited wide, long and controversial legal debate, much prior to the issues raised regarding the municipal civil protection fees charged by several municipalities, led by different parties, and on which, let me say, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it will be institutionally abusive, not competing with Parliament to find it critical in concrete terms. Indeed, with the application of the law and established case law, it is clear that there is a need to analyze, debate and amend the General Tax Law, in order to make it more fair and to ensure the reconstitution of the situation that would exist, if the unconstitutional or illegal norm never existed. Where undue payment of a tax benefit based on declared unconstitutional or illegal rule occurs, the Tax Authority is prevented from paying interest payable to the taxpayer. It is not because I cannot have that will, but because it is the established case law that says so. The current wording of Article 43. the General Tax Law prevents payment of damages. There are judgments and jurisprudence in this regard, so it is not true that there is an illegitimate refusal. In cases where there was no refund of interest compensation, we are faced with cases where the authorities had to comply with the principle of legality. It wasn't bad will. Although the unconstitutionality of the rules cannot be considered an error attributable to tax administration, since it was not available to decide differently from the one who decided, it cannot be ignored that the Tax Authority always integrates the same Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u29	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Portuguese State, in the exercise of legislative power, created the unconstitutional standard, which requires that the same State assume responsibility before the taxpayer, and that is what the Socialist Party will do with the proposed legislative amendment. I even finish, Mr President, with two questions: firstly, the projects speak of an amendment in case there has been a judicial decision passed on trial,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u31	You have to synthesize, Mr. Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u32	... but, in the case of the declaration of unconstitutionality or illegality with general mandatory force in which tax and payment has occurred, there are no compensating interest. Finally, because it is very important, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u33	I know it may be very important, but time has to be managed according to the importance of what is meant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u34	It is important to establish the period in which there will or will not be retroactive effects with the approval of these standards. This matter is very important and it is good for this to be clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u35	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS bring to the debate diplomas they want, and I will simplify the idea, that whenever the State, in a manner considered illegal by the Constitutional Court, has taxed a citizen or citizen, it must return that money with interest. We note this position. I must say that in the examples given, especially in the example of Lisbon, the Left Block has already defended exactly the same with the municipal authorities and therefore, from our point of view, there is no novelty. The same cannot be said of the parties proposing this debate, because I do not forget when the PSD and the CDS had repeatedly had the Constitutional Court to say that it was illegal for their budgetary choice, which cut wages and pensions illegally, if they refused to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, even more so to return the money illegally withdrawn with interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u37	What? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u38	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u39	Therefore, we realize that the PSD and the CDS in the opposition are trying to recover the idea of the « taxpayer’s party», but people know that, as taxpayers, they have been highly penalized by the tax plunder of the PSD and CDS and, as citizens and citizens, they are highly unjustifiably wronged by cuts in their incomes, which have never been returned, the more with due interest paid! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u40	I don't even read the projects, I get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u41	To close the debate, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Member of the CDS-PP, for the CDS-PP has accompanied us on this initiative, which is a complaint we have made long ago. Indeed, the PSD meeting in the City Council of Lisbon and also the PSD Parliamentary Group in this Parliament has long claimed precisely that this rule is repealed, because we consider it unconstitutional, and we have been unequivocal in this matter. What is at stake is a matter of relative justice, reciprocity, Mr Nuno Sá. Indeed, the norm we propose is an interpretative norm and will be effective on the date of the entry into force of the norm that is being interpreted. We are here to express Parliament's position on the interpretation of the General Tax Law in this particular case and therefore we have no doubt about these matters. We are talking about a standard which is general and abstract and which will apply to all present, past and future cases — past, within the meaning of the law in force, of the General Tax Law in force. We have no doubt about that. But what is placed here is to know who is accompanying us to restore the legal interpretation of this standard, a balanced, reciprocal, just, balanced interpretation, and who is not accompanying us. I do the interpretation, by all the speeches made here, that all parliamentary groups are with justice and reciprocity, in this matter. The taxpayers unduly financed some municipal chambers, in the case of the civil protection fee, but this can happen with any tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u43	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u44	I will now finish, Mr President. Can we open up to the state, to the municipalities, so that they cover undue fees and taxes to finance themselves and then do not sacrifice themselves in conditions of replacement of the situation as it existed before, in the event of invocation of unconstitutionality? I believe that we are all with the taxpayers and the side of justice in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u45	Mrs. Members, we will enter the second point of our agenda, the discussion of Bill No. 975 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Promotes the establishment of an observatory for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. To open the debate, you have the floor to Mrs Susana Amador, who will also present this bill. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, of the United Nations, in 1990, and its Optional Protocols, Portugal recognized the universality of the rights of children and made a commitment to promote their implementation and guarantee those rights to all children. After all, the rights of children represent a fundamental struggle of our time, as former President Jorge Sampaio said. Children have the right to the protection of society and the State in order to ensure their full development, especially against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression and against the abusive exercise of authority in the family and other institutions as provided for in Article 69. the Constitution. It is recognized that one of the crucial aspects of the effectiveness of these international and constitutional imperative commitments is also through an appropriate methodology for monitoring its compliance with the country. It was certainly with this wish that the regime governing the functioning of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, as provided for in Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 changed its designation, succeeding the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk, created in 1998 and led to the reconfiguration of the entity to which, at national level, had so far been allocated strategic coordination responsibilities for the defence of such rights. Among its new tasks was the task of « planning, monitoring and evaluating a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child », in particular with a view to the collection of relevant statistical data within the framework of the implementation of this Convention, with a particular focus on this dimension, together with an operational strengthening and functional autonomy of the National Commission. It should be pointed out that according to the proposed State Budget for 2019, the Government intends to create a national strategy for the rights of children 2019 - 2022 and the respective National Plurianual Plan for 2019, which will be accompanied by the National Commission. The draft law now being presented, when proposing the establishment of an observatory for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, inserted into the existing structure, is based on a logic of functional complementarity, including specialized university researchers in this area that will ensure a scientific and accurate scrutiny of the reality of our country's children and the fulfilment of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, it is central to this issue when it is proposed that an integrated public disclosure report be drawn up annually and accessible to all Portuguese people. The National Commission considered, in fact, in written opinion and referred to 1. the Commission, that the project now under discussion « is very positive in order to enable it to take full account of the monitoring of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by strengthening its powers ». This legislative initiative, which we can always improve in the field of expertise, aims, above all, to enhance the recognized need to increase the levels of evaluation of compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal by deepening the monitoring model, as in fact emphasized in their hearings the current President of the National Commission, Rosário Farmhouse, and Dr. Dulce Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u47	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u48	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the protection of children's rights must be corporated through competent public policies which, from education to health and social security, converge to defend their best interests, as required by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That has been our political action; that is our plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative currently under discussion also originated in the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children, which have been alerted to the need for Portugal to define and adopt a clear national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the need to monitor the implementation of the Convention. The PSD has also submitted a draft resolution to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the truth is that the PSD has a different view than the one presented today by the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party argues that this monitoring should be carried out through the creation of an observatory ; for the PSD this allocation should be made by the Ombudsman. Moreover, at the meeting of the PSD position is also one of the legislative amendments introduced in the Statute of the Ombudsman in 2013 which enables them to be assigned to the Ombudsman « functions of an independent national institution to monitor the implementation of international human rights treaties and conventions, where for that purpose they are designated ». We know that the Ombudsman deals with the issue of children's rights, not only through the complaints presented to him, but also through the action developed by the Child's Core. More: the treatment of the rights of children by the Ombudsman also deserved the commitment of the Assembly of the Republic to one of the amendments introduced in 2013 to the Statute of the Ombudsman, within the meaning of this power « to delegate to an attached provider the duties relating to the rights of children for the purpose of exercising them in a specialized manner ». Thus, the PSD, of course attentive to this whole context, has no doubt that the solution pointed out by the Socialist Party is inadequate, when the Ombudsman already has the Child's Core and has an attached provider with specific tasks in this regard. For the PSD, the Ombudsman's Office is the place of natural vocation to receive this assignment, naturally providing it with human and technical means for this purpose. Moreover, this is also a position already taken by the former Ombudsman and the current Ombudsman, even because. Members, the proliferation of institutes does not always increase the defence of fundamental rights, in addition to often being able to make up for means and motivations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u51	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the schedule of this initiative. This is an initiative that we have followed with hearings in a working group set up for this purpose, but we note, even by the intervention that preceded that of the CDS, that although it is a matter of the greatest importance and which has everything to be consensual - in the concerns that it shows in terms of the guarantee and affirmation of the rights of the child and in the answers that we should seek - it has not been possible to achieve unanimity, a consensus which, I believe, would not have been difficult to achieve. What is at stake, as we know, is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is the obligation that States parties to the Convention must regularly carry out assessments, monitor the implementation and respect of the Convention. It is therefore the matter of fulfilling the international obligations of the State, the claim of the rights of the child. For all this, it is also consensual that it is necessary to create and provide strengthened conditions for bodies which have competence for this purpose and therefore it seems clear that, once again, I say it, if I regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement on this matter. on the part of the CDS, we have been saying over time that, like what happens, for example with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where the Convention establishes the desirability that the body evaluating the implementation and monitoring of the Convention itself has autonomy vis-à-vis the administrative structure of the State, vis-à-vis the government, what is intended with this body is that it has the ability to control even critically the activity of the government. So it seems to us — and we share, in this respect, the reading that the PSD does — that it would be more advantageous than, when we seek to identify a body that did so, it was an independent body of government activity and administrative activity. This was not the Socialist Party's option. The National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of the Rights of Children and Youth at Risk affirmed the taste and desire to see this in its competences and I believe it also has all the conditions to do so, but there is a very basic issue which the Commission has also brought to the hearings of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the strengthening of the budget allocation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u53	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u54	I will finish, Mr. President. The Socialist Party says nothing about this, and since we are discussing the Budget, it was essential to see whether this proposal is accompanied by a strengthening of budget appropriations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u55	Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1990 by Portugal, was a key step in what was the advance in promoting the rights of children and young people and in assuming that they constitute a maximum and priority responsibility for democracy. But the Convention on the Rights of the Children must serve for more than simply invoke these principles. This is a set of principles that reflect effective rights that cannot only serve as compass, must be effectively fulfilled and applied. We know that this is not what happens, unfortunately still in Portugal. We continue to have children in poverty, we continue to have children who, in schools, are served insufficient or damaged food, we continue to have children whose rights to protection and development in security are injured. The investments in health and school that occurred in the years of right-wing governance compromised the conditions of access to quality education and access to efficient and quality health services. The principle of the best interests of the child should guide all policies and measures to protect children in an extended and comprehensive way. We know that the protective committees of children and young people are non-judicial entities that were created with the purpose of protecting and promoting the rights of children and young people, but in a very circumscribed aspect, which is the reaction and protection of children when they are at risk or at risk. Therefore, it seems to us that this solution that the Socialist Party has brought today can raise several doubts about what may be the confusion of functions and also about the ability of the CPCJs to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. As I said, they are entities that are called for the promotion and protection of children in danger, so they act in danger situations and, therefore, the Left Block has also brought here a project in which it proposes the creation of an independent majority committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u57	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u58	I will now finish, Mr President. A committee consisting of experts having this competence to monitor and also have the ability to propose measures to implement and comply with the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Children.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u59	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u60	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. We therefore consider that this is the way forward and that the Socialist Party's proposal actually raises serious doubts as to the ability of the CPCJs to play this role. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u61	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a long time, the CFP has insisted on the creation of a permanent and continuing institutional space of analysis about children, about the reality of children and their different dimensions. We have stated, and we do so again today, that all children must be guaranteed the right to protection and special care, respect for their own identity, difference and social dignity, physical integrity, adequate food, clothing, but also housing, health, safety, education, culture, sport, leisure. Inseparable rights of effective compliance with civil, social, economic and cultural rights by the State as well as of taking responsibility for ensuring in the concrete life of children, every day, the principles of the Constitution of the Republic and other international principles, such as that of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal in 1990. The insufficiency, and often lack of data and its treatment, the insufficiency of the analysis of the specificities of the national situation and the impact of public policies on the lives of children and even the verification of compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. gaps and gaps in these areas were at the root of initiatives presented by the CFP in this House, and the latter, which proposes the establishment of a National Committee on the Rights of Children and Youth, is under discussion in the field of speciality, in a Working Group set up for this purpose. With regard to the proposal presented by the PS today, we have reservations about the solution found, not of the creation of an observatory, but of the same being created within the framework of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. And we have doubts, as we have previously had about the extension of the powers and functions of this National Commission because we understand that CPCJs are already in very difficult situations for them to be given more functions and competences, especially when there has not been a significant strengthening of means to fulfil the assigned functions. The CFP recognises and values the dedicated work of the CPCJ stakeholders and in particular of the members of the Restrict Commission. We recognize the work done in the area of prevention and efforts for a coordinated and coordinated work with community institutions, and economic and social reality and the lack of human resources have made it difficult for many CPCJs to intervene effectively. This intervention should have as a priority children at risk, in danger or emergency situations, a priority that can be lost when they are extended and re-enlarged skills that may not then be met, not because of lack of commitment from those who are in the CPCJs but because they are manifestly insufficient to respond to the multiplicity of situations that are being put to them. Considering also the speciality of other similar initiatives, we believe that it would be useful for this initiative to join them so that joint solutions could be found to safeguard the best interests of the child. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u63	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor to close this debate, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the debate here and stress that when the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group called for the establishment of a Working Group to study these matters, it was concerned about the matter, with the need to monitor the implementation of the Convention, but also to seek a common solution. This was our goal: to listen, to promote the hearings we did, with the Ombudsman, with Dr. Dulce Rocha, of the National Commission, and with UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund), and then within the Working Group, we will be able to find a solution of convergence, because the best interests of the child so require and summon us all. Because I am also an irritant optimist, I will not give up, not even my parliamentary group, finding a solution to this issue, and therefore surely in the Working Group or in the plenary of the Commission, we will return to this. With regard to the issues raised here and to the different and legitimate views on this subject, which we always respect, we reiterate that this Commission has undergone legislative changes in both 2015 and 2017 with a view, precisely, to focusing more and more on the monitoring of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has not only changed its designation, and it is currently the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, as in the 2015 amendments it has become very clear the Commission's mission, its competences and tasks, aiming at monitoring, monitoring and collecting data in relation to the Convention, in addition to, in 2017, the legislator, in this House, having given it more agility, more organic reinforcement and more autonomy, to a financial point of view. In other words, the whole course has been made to provide this Commission with more means, more resources and closer follow-up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u65	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u66	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. In order to optimize what already exists and not create new bodies with overlapping powers or functional incongruities, our position is also to optimize what exists and, within the budget of the State, we will monitor this matter with particular care so that the Commission can also see its means strengthened, in order to fully fulfil its noble role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u67	Mrs. Members, we move on to the third point of the agenda, which is from the general assessment of the Drafts of Law Nos 976 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against domestic, sexual and minor violence (Fifth Sixth Amendment to the Criminal Code), 977 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the possibilities for the application of preventive detention and limiting the application of the figure of the provisional suspension of proceedings ( the first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure), 978 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates judgments of domestic violence, 1013 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amends Article 41. the Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the cooperation procedures of employers with workers victims of domestic violence, and 1017 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the Civil Code, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence or ill-treatment. You have the floor to start the debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that crimes of domestic and sexual violence constitute extreme manifestations of domination and violence against women. Despite the progress we have made in promoting gender equality, this is a struggle that we are far from winning. Domestic violence continues, year after year, to record absolutely overwhelming numbers and is the most deadly crime in Portugal. In the last 15 years, 493 women have been murdered in the context of domestic violence. There were more than 1000 attempts at "femicides" and more than 1000 children were orphaned by one or both parental figures. Complaints of sexual crimes, particularly rape, increased 22 % last year. We also know that the persistent devaluation and naturalization of domestic violence, as well as of sexual crimes, particularly by judicial bodies, are an important part of the problem. Cases filed, suspended penalties, victim's liability, that are an example of the judgments that have come to the public but that we know only to be the tip of the iceberg, they compete to abrogate and, thus, to legitimize violence against women. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u69	The Left Block considers that we cannot wait any longer and that it is time to change this state of affairs. It therefore brings here three bills that seek to contribute to greater protection of victims of these abject crimes and that also respond to commitments made with the Istanbul Convention. A first bill, which amends the criminal frameworks of domestic violence, sexual abuse and sexual abuse of children, seeks to confer on these crimes the weight and importance that should be deserved in our Criminal Code and in our judicial system. A second bill amends the Code of Criminal Procedure and extends the possibility of preventive detention to domestic violence crimes and against sexual freedom and self-determination, as well as determines that the provisional suspension of the trial to domestic violence crimes is inapplicable. And a third bill provides for the creation of two pilot drafts of domestic violence judgements, with criminal competence, and for the regulation of parental responsibilities arising from the same crime. We believe that these are projects that give difficult, complex, but courageous proposals and that it is indeed time to change this state of things. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u70	Mrs Sandra Cunha, the Bureau registered a request for clarification. To this end, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very important, very delicate and sensitive issue, which is a very expensive issue for the PSD Parliamentary Group. Violence against women, especially domestic violence, is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations. And, without prejudice to the legal considerations that these legislative initiatives deserve from us, we need to make some political considerations here. The Left Block has the speed of finding that domestic violence and sexual crimes are fighting with the worsening of sentences and with the extension of the application of preventive detention to these crimes. It does not seem to us that this is the case and that this corresponds to the truth. Domestic violence is a crime, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who still benefit from some social tolerance. And the problem is exactly up: it begins in the complaint, in the poor complaint, through the treatment of the same complaints by police officers, who are sometimes not sufficiently sensitized to the treatment of these complaints, and also through the support and protection measures to victims. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is not so simple, and numerous integrated and comprehensive policies are needed to help prevent and combat domestic violence. And these are exactly these policies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to. Therefore, I ask the Left Block, which is now a partner of the Government, if, in its role as a partner but also as a opposition to the Government, it is careful to know what the Government has done, in particular, to combat and prevent domestic violence. Has the Left Block, perhaps, already taken care of how many training actions for judges and security forces have been carried out by this government? More: do you know the Left Block how many judges and how many agents have been covered by it? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that, in view of the recent past, there is a clear disinvestment in training actions, which in the past involved more than 11 000 police officers and more than 700 judicial magistrates throughout the entire term of office. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is interesting to note that the Retrospective Analysis Team on Domestic Violence ( EARHVD ), a team that was created by the previous Government to make an analysis of possible failures in the judicial system regarding the crime of domestic violence, came to say exactly what the PSD has said long ago: it is necessary to invest in training actions by judges and security forces, who are the first to be in contact with the crime of domestic violence and the victims of this crime. And it has been found that it was precisely due to lack of awareness that many of these crimes were not dealt with at first sight and, at a later stage, fatally ended up in murders. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has insisted very much and will continue to insist on this: it is necessary to give training actions to judicial magistrates and the Public Prosecutors and security officers, who are the first people to be in contact with the victims and the crime of domestic violence, in order to give this crime a proper treatment and to guard situations of fatality, as has happened many times. On the other hand, I would also like to ask the Left Block if you remember a recent campaign on domestic violence, which goes through the media and involves people as a way of raising awareness. Do you remember the Left Block? No, you don't remember. And he doesn't remember, because he didn't exist. In 2011 we campaigned on marital homicide in 2012 and conducted a campaign aimed at mothers victims of domestic violence in 2013, we campaigned for the entire CPLP community, aimed at alerting the various forms of violence against women and girls, and in 2014 we conducted a campaign aimed at the general public, especially older people, to also alert the elderly against violence. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret to conclude that the Socialist Party talks a lot about domestic violence — it speaks too much, in fact, in our view, even abusedly, the faces of victims of domestic violence in a congress to make political propaganda — but unfortunately, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it did not translate into investment in concrete policies to combat and prevent domestic violence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u72	On the contrary, what the PSD has verified and about what the government has questioned very often is the fact that there is a strong and clear disinvestment in policies to combat domestic violence. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are the reflections I leave to the Left Block. These initiatives alone are not adequate to combat domestic violence. It is necessary to demand more and demand that you support the Government. Another question I want to ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u73	You have to finish, Mrs Deputies, because you have already spent twice as much time on requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to ask one more question to the Left Block. Will the Left Block withdraw its bill on domestic violence judgments, since it goes against the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u75	In reply, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u76	Mr President, the Left Block has begun this debate to respond to the concrete reality. The PSD, Mrs Sandra Pereira, asked the questions, gave the answers, but did not make any proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u77	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u78	Where are the PSD proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u79	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u80	The Left Block cannot deal with the continuation of the death of women, of violence against women.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u81	Neither the Left Block nor anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u82	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u83	We know that the absence of the victim's aggressor is motive and is a way to further aggression and death. We know of the rates of recurrence of domestic violence and sexual assault. The suspended penalties reveal the devaluation of violence by our judicial system and also by our society. We need courageous measures, and that's what the Left Block here brings. Where are the PSDs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u84	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence is one of the most prevalent crimes in Portugal. In 2017, approximately 27 000 occurrences were recorded throughout the national territory, resulting in an alarming average of 73 people assaulted per day. In 81 % of these situations, they occur with a duration of between two and six years. The legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims provides for forms of cooperation of employers in cases of domestic violence to help workers overcome a particularly difficult time in their lives. But we know it's not enough. Therefore, the NAP wants to amend the law, so that victims of domestic violence are entitled to a 10-day paid leave for the removal of the aggressor and the search for a new residence, in order to ensure their safety and that of their family. We also believe that these workers and these workers should have the right to be able to ask the employer to change the e-mail address and remove professional contacts from or related to the websites associated with the company. After all, we are talking about a huge social scourge, with serious consequences at all levels for the victims. Therefore, cooperation between employers and workers, victims of this crime, can and should be strengthened. It's 10 days. It's an electronic address. And it is small interventions that can change — for the better — the direction of these lives. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u86	You now have the floor to present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against the crime that we are dealing with today — the crime of domestic violence — is not an exclusive of the CDS, the BE, neither the PAN, the PCP, the DOS Verdes, nor the PS, nor even the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u89	And much less is a greater or lesser concern for this or that party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u91	It is, on the contrary, a matter which has called for the transversal efforts of all the Executives and of all the parties with parliamentary seats and which, unfortunately, insists and persists.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u93	Despite data from the Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI ) showing that domestic violence has suffered a slight decrease in 2017, the fact is that not only is the second largest crime in the category of crimes against people, as the number of deaths due to domestic violence has increased by September 2017. in these numbers we also include violence against the elderly, which has grown worryingly in recent years. According to data from the Portuguese Association of Victim Support ( APAV ), in four years only this Association, recorded nearly 6000 complaints of violence against the elderly, and of course almost 40% said about child-to-parent aggressions in the domestic context. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We continue with a scourge that in 2017 still gave rise to more than 70 participations per day — 70 participations per day! — a number which impresses and therefore leaves no one indifferent. We all know — and not even the coldness of numbers lies — that, more than demultiplicating ourselves into legislative initiatives, awareness of the problem is imperative and, with this, cultural change. But above all, what we all know is that, more than legislating, it is necessary to take away the role which it is afraid of not leaving it, strengthening the support network and the social responses which we all know are still scarce in many cases. What the CDS proposes today does not solve the problem, but it is of the most elementary justice and wisdom. And it is simple: the Civil Code provides that those who have been convicted of the crime of murder, slanderous denunciation or forgery of will, among other examples, are prevented from inheriting the person against whom they have committed the crime. What the CDS therefore intends is to extend the causes of successive indignity, preventing anyone who has committed the crime of domestic violence or ill-treatment from being heir to the person who has assaulted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u95	It's a simple thing, but it makes sense to us. And it makes sense, because for the CDS, the disrespect, contempt and cruelty that the perpetrator of the crime demonstrates by the people who, theoretically, should be even closer to him justify this option. We know that what is at issue is much deeper. But we all know, too, that there are small measures and small signs that, in addition to fair ones, can contribute to addressing some particularities and weaknesses that are still urgent. On the other hand, if the NAP bill has the virtue to bring to the discussion issues that are relevant—although we seem to lack some legislative and regulatory affinity—the same can no longer be said of any of the bills that the Left Block puts on the table today. From the very beginning and to the head, the creation of judgments of domestic violence. Without wanting to make any judgments on choices here — each party follows its path and makes its choices, which others approve or reject, also according to its choices —, the creation of judgements for the trial of specific types of crimes is manifestly unconstitutional — and the Left Block knows - well - and for the CDS, even domestic violence would not justify turning itself around and changing the Constitution for that purpose. It is a choice of the Left Block to do so - but for that, I would have to open the door to a constitutional review. Constitutional review, this, that the CDS wants, even if for other reasons, that you have already asked for, but you have to stop! — they rejected it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u98	That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing here that can be discussed in the meantime. As for the worsening of the criminal molluscs proposed by the Left Block, we can even understand the intention, but we do not suffer it again. And we don't suffrage her, because we understand that, close to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code is time to make a systematic analysis, not only of its adequacy to the present day but also harmonizing and giving consistency to some regimes, particularly in the criminal frameworks of crimes against people and property crimes. Here too the CDS has a proposal, which awaits its discussion, in its specialty. Finally, as regards the third draft of the Left Block, on the impossibility of a judge to use the figure of the provisional suspension of the trial, also here, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our disagreement is fundamental. In addition to the obvious advantages that we all recognize to this institute, to avoid the freedom of the judge who, rather than the legislator, works for the general and abstract and knows whether he is in a position to know which is the best solution for the particular case, to remove it from instruments which, if any, can bring benefits to the parties, it is not only dangerous as very little effective. Having said that, and so on, Madam President, the fight against domestic violence is a fight for which we must all remain united, finding effective solutions and serving in the best way the purposes of this fight. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u99	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all sure to agree that the issue of domestic violence is a topic of the greatest importance, always at present and that, despite the many measures taken today, it remains a serious social problem, a problem of victim law and that it is important to face. The Socialist Party has always been at the forefront of combating this scourge, without prejudice to recognizing that this fight is cross-cutting and has been, in particular, of all governments since 2000. Today, we have the assurance that we have a territorial strategy to prevent domestic violence, despite the problems that we all see also exist. Do you need to do more? Surely more is needed to be done, but this imperative need to do more cannot be satisfied with populism. The freedoms and the rule of law, the freedoms and the guarantees of the citizen cannot, at any time, give in to and be reduced, even if they are relativised, even in the face of objective merit. And this is a clear example that they do not always justify the means. The projects in question aim to amend the Penal Code by proposing solutions to the aggravating of penalties, which in countries that have these solutions has no results; they also want to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, extending the scope of preventive detention, when it does not have in our legal order a sanction but essentially preventive scope; and domestic violence judgments are clearly a solution that goes against the constitutional forecasts we have. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: These measures, in our view, go in the wrong direction and clash with the basic principles of our rule of law and our legal-criminal system. Preventive detention is not penalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u102	The provisional suspension of the process is a useful tool that has allowed many, many solutions to be found, avoiding absolutions that, in other cases, because of difficulty of proof, would have happened, if this faculty did not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u104	The worsening of penalties is not a solution and, as I have already mentioned, many of the criminal systems show that where there are heavy penalties there are no results in combating this crime. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic provides for Article 209 thereof. the prohibition of the existence of courts of exclusive competence for the trial of certain categories of crimes. And if there is anyone who has in memory the so-called "plenary courts",...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u106	... what happened in the past in the context of the New State will certainly understand what it is to judge and decide concrete cases, "surfing" in waves of populism. We cannot agree with this, we do not accept, it goes against the Constitution, we cannot go this way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This should not be the way of Portuguese society, it is not our way and for this reason we cannot be sure to support the proposals presented here today by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u107	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is certainly not a debate between those who condemn domestic violence, who want to find the best legal solutions to combat it and those who, supposedly, will deal with this heinous crime. That's not what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u110	We will all know the seriousness of the crime of domestic violence in Portuguese society and the need to find good solutions at all levels — at political and legislative level — to deal with this serious problem. Only that a good cause calls for good solutions and, clearly, today, we are not discussing good solutions that are proposed to us. This can't stop being said. I would say until what is proposed to us is not only good solutions such as, from our point of view, not even solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u112	Let us see, then, more in detail. There is a bill that is manifestly unconstitutional, which is that of the existence of special judgments for the trial of a particular crime. Now, the Constitution directly prohibits this possibility. And we are not talking about specialization, because the Constitution does not prevent any specialization in civil matters in non-criminal matters. What the Constitution expressly prohibits is the creation of courts for the trial of certain categories of crimes. Now, this is exactly what is here, with all the letters, but domestic violence crimes have to be judged by criminal courts, as is the case with other crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u114	Constitutionally, there can be no courts for the trial of certain categories of crimes. I believe that this is unequivocal and that, in view of the constitutional text, there are no two opinions. Then we have here the question of increased penalties and legal limitations to the possibility of preventive arrest and provisional suspension of the proceedings. And in this area, it is also important to say that I believe that these proposals, coming from where they come from, are surprising. It is that, excuse-CL-me, but these are typical solutions on the right. [[PSD and PS laughter.]] We have discussed this here, often with the CDS, particularly with the CDS — and we will establish some mitigating elements for the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u115	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u116	...because, in fact, the CDS has been the champion of, over the years, understanding that the problem of crime is solved by increasing penalties. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u117	We are discussing this with regard to other types of crimes, particularly with regard to violent crime. Systematically, when there was news of violent crimes that moved more public opinion, the CDS appeared there with increased penalties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u118	Not only but also!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u119	This is what is proposed here today for domestic violence. Now, we all know that experience, and not just the recent experience, but the historical experience of criminal law, anywhere in the world, shows that it is not because of the mere worsening of penalties that crime decreases because, if so, in countries such as the United States, which have the death penalty, crime would drop dramatically. Don't come down, don't come down! So that is not really the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u121	Just as it seems to us that the solution, in terms of criminal proceedings, should not go through the limitation of the use of mechanisms such as the provisional suspension of the process, depending on a certain type of crime. The fact that there may be judicial decisions with which we do not agree and that we believe that they have perverse effects cannot call into question the existence of legal figures, when they can be used with criteria and in a positive way. In fact, let me make a comparison: we all regret that there are people who, after committing crimes and serving part of the penalty, go out on parole, arrive out here and commit another crime, but the solution is not « end with parole». That is to say, the fact that judicial decisions are wrong in certain cases should lead us to think about other measures, including training and better possibilities for follow-up of each particular case by the judicial authorities, and we know that there is a major deficit in our country at this level — but it is not just a matter of deciding that there is no provisional suspension of the case, the end point, when it comes to such crimes. We know that in this crime, as in others, this possibility can have positive effects, provided that it is, as everything in life, used with criteria and, in essence, with the safeguards that the law itself already provides, because the provisional suspension of the proceedings is provided for in the law very carefully, so that the enforcers of justice will, of course, do so in accordance with what is legislated. This, to say that we are perfectly available and receptive to continue to find solutions to combat, at all levels, the problem of domestic violence, especially for the protection of victims, which should motivate us. I believe that we should try to find good solutions, and clearly what is being discussed today is not that. And don't say that refusing these solutions is to deal with domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u122	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u123	That would be the most gross demagogy we don't expect to hear here. We must say, frankly, that what is proposed here is contrary to the basic principles of the constitutionally enshrined democratic rule of law, and that is why we cannot support the initiatives that are proposed today. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u124	You now have the floor to Mrs Isabel Moreira of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let it be clear here that no one is obviously associated with domestic violence because it does not agree with the left block bill. This statement is offensive, unacceptable and is ill-admissible to those who speak it. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Left Block Bills settle in an unacceptable criminal populism, violate the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u127	... forget the rule of law and its historical legacy, and deceive the victims of gender-based violence. Nothing, in the projects in question, protects the victims, on the contrary, as will be seen, protects these same victims. To assume that the increase in penalties is a measure to combat gender-based violence is a step forward to our heritage, from then on to the left heritage. I imagine that they bear in mind that in the United States that even predict perpetual imprisonment for these types of crimes they have not decreased. This is about having in the PS as a pillar of our rule of law, the non-subjection of criminal law to social complaints—of understandable emotion— precisely because the State must replace our individual seat of revenge with a rational system. The freedom of people, whose most drastic effect is the penalty of effective imprisonment, cannot depend on the resonance of popular feeling and we should cultivate the knowledge of the pillars of our rule of law, where criminal law is found. We don't punish to punish. Punir to punish would be to align with the law of "eye by eye, tooth by tooth", which would return us to a barbaric conception of the human person, broken by the laws of nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u129	That is why the PS is struggling with the principles on which our criminal law is based, which translates into concrete rules that prevent the levels of imprisonment that some countries are ashamed of. In this way, we do not mean that there is a permanent need to improve the law, but we know that the legislator cannot base the most serious restriction on fundamental rights — criminal sanctions — on the social cry. The attachment to the purposes of our criminal law is, precisely, tested when there are crimes that harm us from death, such as sexual abuse of children, domestic violence or rape. The Left Block, in these diplomas, fails the test...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u131	... and, in an insufficient legislative technique, takes the danger of replacing judges in the area of assessing the circumstances of each case. In Draft Law No 977 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ), BE ignores that the requirement that punishable crimes of a maximum of three years'imprisonment are in question is a requirement resulting from Article 27(3)(c ). that of the Constitution, being, in this measure, unalterable. With regard to the proposal to exclude the crime of domestic violence from the scope of cases where the provisional suspension of the proceedings is possible, the Left Block forgets that, often because we are faced with crimes committed within the family, in intimate relations, the victim is coagated, does not speak, so if it is not the possibility of suspension and the decree of measures that protect the victim of the attacker, we would have much but much more acquitted. In other words, the Left Block now violates the Constitution, now violates the spirit of criminal law, now protects victims of gender-based violence with populist solutions that solve nothing. The PS definitely doesn't go that way. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u132	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, from the PSD, now has the floor also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate on 1. the Commission, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD, asked the Left Block whether or not it would withdraw the Bill No. 978 / XIII / 3. a (BE), which creates criminal judgments for domestic violence. We reiterate this question here again, and we are doing so because we believe that it would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u134	Don't! You are here to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u135	This project is a legal disagreement and a political misunderstanding. It is a legal disagreement for four orders of reasons. First, any amendment to the organisation of the Portuguese courts should be included in the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System and, in particular, in the regulation of the same law. Secondly, the criminal judgments which the Left Block has envisioned creating agl wish for differentiated material competences that are not accumulated, such as domestic violence and the regulation of parental responsibilities, which, above all, already belong to a jurisdiction, to special courts, which are the family and minor courts. And they are not accumulable due to the deadlines and urgency that these latter procedures contain and that they simply do not comply with the deadlines of the criminal proceedings, with the guarantees of defence of the defendant, of which we cannot abdicate. Thirdly, the Left Block project forgets the civil protective processes of children and young people in danger resulting from domestic violence. You just don't talk about them, you don't realize exactly what they're staying in. Finally, but above all, it is a project markedly and irremediably unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u137	The prohibition is expressed in Article 209 ( 4 ). and that's why we shouldn't even be here having this discussion. This prohibition expressed is not a prohibition whatsoever in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic Annotated, Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira classify it as "normal characteristic of the concept of the rule of law". And this is not only — but it is also, of course — the memory of the plenary courts, takes place from a global understanding of our judicial organization, to avoid totalitarian temptations that can create criminal judgments, for example, for press crimes or crimes against the security of the State, or that at any time someone remembers to create. Our Constitution has had this democratic caution, of which we cannot abdicate. In addition, in this matter - and I believe this is a reason that, purely and simply, causes the project of the Left Block to die -, as has already been said by the other parliamentary groups, there has been or has almost always been a good and beneficial consensus. There is not a single parliamentary group that has not cooperated. Even in the previous legislation, at times of special political crispaction, in the fight against domestic violence, consensus was reached here that would eventually be impossible in other areas. This is a valuable acquisition that we cannot lose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u138	Do you know how this process started? With PSD against!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u139	It is not understood how, in such a sensitive, important matter, that each legislative amendment should deserve special care, the Left Block seems to be unique and exclusively concerned with the possession of newspaper titles, television minutes and simply does not realize that this project, that such initiatives are counterproductive, because they banalize the fight against domestic violence, because they turn it into something, as if the Left Block had a concern that other parliamentary groups do not have. That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u140	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u141	I shall conclude, Madam President. Your project is not useful, your project does not help to combat domestic violence and will remain in Parliament's memory as something that should not be done when we want things to be done well. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, it is important to say that the fight against gender violence in the last 20 years has taken political priority in all socialist governments. The main advances have the PS signature. In the current programme, Portugal + Equal, the Action Plan for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence is absolutely central. Mrs Sandra Pereira has certainly not had access to social networks or to social communication in recent years. This vision and this kind of information has been erased from its reading of the world and from the analysis of the policies under way. He's wrong and he's dishonest. I'm going to give you examples: "Friendly campaign against violence—What is your course? , one of the campaigns ; « Community Active Against Violence », second campaign ; « # NemMais1MinutodeSilêncio », third campaign ; partnership « App VD – APPoio Against Domestic Violence, which reached 1, 2 million people, fourth campaign ; « Trans and Intersex # DireitoASer », another campaign. Five campaigns in 3 years. Don't go that way, Mrs. Member, that's a bad way.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u144	They were very discreet! No one's seen them!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u145	Learn with your colleague Carlos Abreu Amorim, who says we have to be together in this fight. That's it! We must be together and we cannot be closed to new solutions, we must implement them in an integrated way, within the framework of recommendations that are in progress, both of GREVIO (Group of Experts on Actiongainst Violence against Women and Domestic Violence), or of CEDAW (The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discriminationagainst Women), which has been very well studied, very well defined, which we must, of course, adopt in an integrated manner in the current policies. We will do everything on the part of the PS to continue to combat gender-based violence effectively, to comply with and align with both the recommendations of GREVIO and CEDAW. We will do everything we can to introduce into the policies that are under way the recommendations that are being adopted, to combat effectively, as I think we all want — we can diverge in the way but do not diverge in the objective — violence against women, this serious violation of human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bureau shall not record any entries at this time. If there are no more Members to sign up, the Left Block will close the debate. [[Pause.]] As no one else intends to sign up, you have the floor to close the debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : In Portugal, crimes against property are more serious than crimes against people.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u148	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u149	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u150	The criminal frameworks of crimes against people are lower than the criminal frameworks of several crimes against heritage and the criminal frameworks of domestic violence and sexual abuse are manifestly low in Portugal. In recent days, and still today, here, in this House, the Left Block has been accused of criminal populism, of yielding to the demands of popular immediacy. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you even think it is populism to think that, in a rule of law, crimes against people should be more severely punished than crimes against property? Oh, my God! Is this populism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u151	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u152	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u153	No, they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u154	They are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u155	The facts are clear: 70% of complaints of domestic violence are filed, 90% of the cases completed end up in suspended punishment and only 37% of those convicted of sexual crimes comply with effective imprisonment. The judicial devaluation of domestic violence and sexual crimes is evident, as is the consequent impunity of the aggressors and their legitimacy. [[PSD and PS protests.]] The training of judges and campaigns are an important part of this equation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u156	Part? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u157	...but it is not enough, I repeat, because waiting for the results of the formation of judges means to deal with these crimes for at least another 20 years. We need more efficient measures and they produce faster results.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u159	That is also the position of the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u160	It's true! The PS forgot about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u161	It has already admitted, in various media bodies, to move forward with proposals to amend the Penal Code for the criminalization of sexual crimes and, eventually, related crimes, to avoid the suspension of the prison, therefore, and even contrary to what some Members and some Members have expressed here. Let us wait exactly for this proposal. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] We believe that the Government is on the right track and therefore we demand that this Bill No. 976 / XIII / 3. a, amending the Penal Code, goes down to the committee without a vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u162	Violate the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u163	... and from there, we will look forward, with all expectation, to the proposal that the government has already committed to surrender. The seriousness of domestic violence and sexual crimes is undeniable. Their marks remain, most of the time, for the rest of their lives. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] However, this reality is not supported by the Code of Criminal Procedure. And here too, there is a differentiated treatment between crimes against people and crimes against heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u164	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u165	It's incomprehensible, sirs. and Mrs Deputies, that preventive detention may be applied in the case of evidence of a crime of injury but not in the case of evidence of more complex proof of crime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u166	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u167	...more difficult and where, in the overwhelming majority of cases, the aggressor...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u168	That's not true! He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u169	...has a huge rise on the victims. Such an exception cannot be accepted to the crime that most kills in Portugal, as it is incomprehensible the application of the figure of the provisional suspension of the trial to this type of crime. If, in 2000 almost 20 years ago, when the crime of domestic violence became a public crime—on the initiative of the Left Block again—you could understand the provisional suspension of the process, because it was understood at the time, or if you thought domestic violence as isolated acts, life proved to us that today, unfortunately, this theory has no way of being proven...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u171	...and therefore life gave no reason to whom this theory was based. It is today that domestic violence is not an isolated offense but rather a pattern of control and abusive behavior, which repeats over time and has a devastating and long-lasting impact on victims. The perverseness which is to be considered as the victim and aggressor are on the same footing, as is required and expected in the situations of application of the provisional suspension of the proceedings, cannot be denied. Mrs. and Mrs Deputies, regarding domestic violence judgments, is known the difficulty of adapting the judicial organization. We know how conservative it is, we know its difficulty in adapting to the complexity of issues related to the phenomenon of domestic violence and sexual crimes, where illicit criminal interaction with other types of processes of a civil nature and regulation of parental responsibilities. We know that the judicial organization is inefficient in complex processes but is even more inefficient in domestic violence processes. This bureaucratic labyrinth of justice makes people's lives, the lives of the victims, an authentic hell. They are processes that take place in different courts, where the victim is forced to relive the same thing multiple times. They are decisions taken in a disarticulate way, they are processes of regulation of parental responsibilities, which run without consideration for the suspension of the criminal process. What we bring here is a circumscribed and transitional response: two pilot projects for the organization of specialized courts of mixed competence and domestic violence, with criminal competence and with competence in the regulation of parental responsibilities, to ensure that the various processes run in a single court, in the same court, and are conducted by the same team. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: This is not an innovative solution. It already exists in several countries with various judicial systems, of course, but all emanating from rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u172	There is no cabbage in our Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u173	In Canada, in several United States of America, Sweden, Ireland, Spain. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Mrs Isabel Moreira, we do not know the rules on the prohibition of the existence of courts with exclusive competence for the trial of certain categories of crime, but we must recognize that even the Constituent Assembly did not understand this rule as strictly exclusive. The fact is that we need to evolve in action and mobilize more tools for the fight against crime that most kills in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u174	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u175	I will now finish, Madam President. Comparing judgments specializing in domestic violence with the old regime and with plenary courts is of total ignorance or is just an infamous statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u176	It's bad faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u177	The New State plenary courts were dedicated to defending the regime and persecuting its opponents, which is completely and diametrically different from defending and protecting women from violence...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u178	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u179	...who killed nearly 500 women in 15 years. There may be those who don't agree with this solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u180	It's not a matter of agreeing! It's unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u181	... but this does not give the right to bring forward proposals from other parties, as if they were non-democratic proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u183	Madam President, I'm really going to finish. The Left Block will humbly accept all decisions. What we hope is that the decision on the constitutional conformity of this proposal will be made at home, because there are many people in this House who have often been wrong about their constitutional convictions. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u184	PSD and CDS talk about the Constitution, but they don't understand it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u185	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u186	This is the last sentence, Madam President. If it is in doubt as to the constitutionality they want to vote against, then let the Constitutional Court decide. Moreover, the considerations of the Constitutional Court may even be very useful for the clarity of the discussion as to the path to be followed and the solutions to be found. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nearly 500 women who have been victims of domestic violence have died in the last 15 years. We accept that our proposals can be improved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u187	Mrs Deputy, you've spent your time far too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u188	I'm finishing up, Madam President. The question is whether this Parliament agrees to end this legislation without doing anything to end this horror. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u189	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the discussion of the Bills No. 976 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 977 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 978 / XIII / 3. a ( BE), 1013 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) and 1017 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ). We now move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is from the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 237 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves Sea Police Organization, 238 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — National Maritime Authority and 1009 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Regulates the right of association of maritime police personnel ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February ). To open the debate and present the legislative initiatives of the CFP, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group today presents two initiatives aimed at, one, approving an organic law of the Maritime Police and, another, amending the legislation of the National Maritime Authority ( NMA ). With these initiatives, the CFP Parliamentary Group aims to raise a wide institutional debate on the management, monitoring and policing of national maritime areas. The debate on matters relating to the Maritime Police and the National Maritime Authority, its structures, missions and civilistic nature, also aims to eliminate overlaps and improve the coordination of the numerous structures that today intervene in the same physical space. In fact, in addition to the Maritime Police and the services integrated into the National Maritime Authority, we have the Coastal Control Unit, the GNR ( Republican National Guard), the National Fisheries Authority, the National Maritime Traffic Control Authority, the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services, among other structures. With the bill that aims to create the organic law of the Maritime Police, built with the collaboration of the Socio-Professional Association of the Maritime Police - which I take advantage of to greet -, we seriously want to promote discussion on issues related to the demilitarization of police functions. With this PCP bill, the missions and duties of the Maritime Police are clearly defined. Police, investigation of crimes committed in the maritime environment, monitoring of maritime activities and safeguarding freedom and security are some of the tasks remaining within the framework of this criminal police body. It is also defined the hierarchical structure, disconnected and with local commands, maintaining the national director appointed by the Minister of National Defence, who can choose it from among the officers of the Maritime Police. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the CFP amending the legislation of the National Maritime Authority specifically addresses its institutional framework and complies with the constitutional framework in force, withdrawing it from the dependence of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces ( CEMA ). Considering that the National Maritime Authority has no mission or function of remotely military charis, it makes every sense that its Director-General is the National Maritime Authority and not, as it is today, by interference, by obligation, the Chief of Staff of the Navy. Nothing moves us against the military of the Navy, nor do we exclude even that they may have positions in the structure of the Maritime Authority, not because they are military, but because of their experience, competence and training. What we want and what is required, in order to comply with the Constitution, is that the military missions aimed at the military defence of the country be reserved for the armed forces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u191	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has always said that both the National Maritime Authority and the Maritime Police need a new organic, in respect of democratic legality and of what the Constitution of the Republic states. The political power, along successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, has always swung to the side and has not yet shown willingness to solve the problem. The Maritime Police is a civilian and non-military police force and it is responsible for ensuring the internal security and rights of citizens in ports and port areas, in the maritime public domain and in other maritime areas under Portuguese sovereignty, as stipulated by the legislation of the country and the European community and, even, international treaties and conventions. The Maritime Police is, therefore, a civilian security force, like other police forces, which in 2002 became part of the operational structure of the National Maritime Authority, remaining in the dependence of the Navy, a situation that only contributes to the militarization of this police force. On the other hand, it opens up space for the armed forces to intervene in internal security by subordinate local and regional structures of the Maritime Police to the Chief of the Army's Major State, violating the principles of the democratic rule of law, constitutional norms defining the mission of the Armed Forces, of the rights, freedoms and guarantees and of the general police rules and promoting a "policing" of the military. It is therefore important for the Maritime Police to evolve in the sense of its autonomy in relation to the National Maritime Authority and the Navy, recognizing its civil and police nature and moving it away from military supremacy, with its own command, exercised by career professionals. in this case, we will vote in favour of the projects presented by the PCP. The project that the Block presents is of another scope. What is intended is for the association and socio-professional rights of the Maritime Police to be improved by providing this police force with rights similar to those existing in other police forces. This is a question of fairness, democracy and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u194	Thus, with this legislative initiative, the Block proposes that the constitution of association be communicated to the General Command of the Maritime Police and that the discount be facilitated, among other aspects, at the source. On the other hand, with this initiative, the conditions for the exercise of the right of assembly and of the dispensations of service are improved. in this latter aspect, the members of the national branches, regional representatives and other national leaders and local representatives of professional associations will have 3 days, 2 days and 1 day in each month, respectively, to deal with matters of a socio-professional nature. Finally, the members of the election committee for representatives in the Council of the Maritime Police, the members of the polling stations on the day of the election act and the staff of this police with the right to vote, for the time necessary for their exercise. Dispensations of service may not entail loss of remuneration, count as effective service time and may only be refused on the basis of heavy service needs, subject to the appeal of this refusal to the Commander-General of the Maritime Police. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u195	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Vitorino, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Maritime Police is a criminal police and police body that guarantees and monitors compliance with the laws and regulations in the areas of the maritime public domain, in the harbour areas, in the bathing areas, in the inland waters under the jurisdiction of the Maritime Authority and other maritime spaces. The Maritime Police, as a specialist police officer, performs functions in these jurisdictional areas of the Maritime Authority, but also performs police, surveillance, surveillance and investigation actions and implements police measures, still competing under the law with other police and security forces to ensure the security and rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u197	So far, so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u198	On the other hand, as a criminal police body, it is up to the Maritime Police to develop all acts and investigations in the judicial context, under the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as to execute warrants and judicial orders in areas of their responsibility. It is therefore up to the National Maritime Authority, in particular Admiral CEMA, to coordinate these activities as well as those of the Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority and the Commander-General of the Maritime Police. I refer to some concrete examples of what has been the action of the Maritime Police in Portugal and beyond borders: more than 100 000 surveillance and surveillance actions, more than 11 000 vessels controlled in the sea and more than 6500 counter-ordinations and 950 cases of crime registered. I also take advantage of the role of the Maritime Police in the operations of the Frontex (European Agency for Border and Coast Guard) and thank the role played by its men and women in the Mediterranean, from which thousands and thousands of human beings have been rescued, as well as all the help they have given in combating trafficking in human beings in that region. All of this with only about 500 effective. Today we are discussing initiatives by the CFP and the Block on the right of association of maritime police personnel and the withdrawal of this Police from the Navy dependency. The struggle of the PCP and the Block is known, when they say it is necessary to separate the security of defense, taking advantage to criticize, once again, NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and its Strategic Council, as if...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u199	I didn't even talk about NATO!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u200	I am absolutely sure that you have read the preamble of your initiative, or perhaps you have not read it, were the advisers who wrote it and the honourable Member had no opportunity to read it. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] But, as I said, the CFP and the Bloc use to criticize, once again, NATO and its Strategic Council, as if today's defence and security were so simple to separate and as if every day that passes, in a more dangerous world, with more complex threats, did not force us to realize that, more than ever, entities on both sides must be interconnected and cooperate and, if necessary, act.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u201	What does that have to do with the Maritime Police? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u202	The model that exists for the Maritime Police works, and it would work even better if more human, material and financial means existed. The Armed Forces would also work much better if they had more resources, if there was no government, supported by VV. For example, to each budget that passes, it simply makes more and more announcements of more money for the Armed Forces, when, in practice, we see less and less money for the Armed Forces in its execution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u203	What is seen is strictly the opposite of what they are learning, being the PCP and the Block consistent with the policy that has destroyed the Armed Forces in Portugal and placed below a fundamental pillar of our democratic rule of law. It is now much worse the budget of the Armed Forces than the worst of the budgets presented when the troika was in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u204	You're going to have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u205	...and VV. Ex.a. are completely convivient in this matter. To sum up, and to conclude, Mrs President, what the Maritime Police need is more men and women, more means, modern equipment, more missions. Deep down, the Maritime Police needs to let her work, because our Armed Forces, when they leave them to work, are very good at what they do and are able to be at least equal to the best in the world. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u206	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Jorge Gomes has the floor, which I welcome, on behalf of the Bureau, because years ago. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] However, the fact that years go by will not have an increase in time for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u207	Madam President, I appreciate your kindness, but officially only years after tomorrow, because I was registered two days after I was born. [[PS and PSD rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u208	After tomorrow it would be more difficult to congratulate you on behalf of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u209	Exactly. Anyway, so, I have the privilege of doing years in two different days, which is an advantage. I am also grateful for the sympathy of all the colleagues who have welcomed and hope that, with this introduction, there will be some tolerance about the time I have available for my speech, because Mrs President has left me nervous and I do not want to deceive myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u210	Tolerance is that there will be no, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you know. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new or totally new debate, because many of the issues that are being raised today have been discussed in past legislative sessions. However, in view of the past initiatives, there are few innovations that the PCP and the Left Block now present on this subject. Therefore, the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in this debate in nothing is altered and taken advantage of to remember that the Portuguese State's public requirements for the maintenance of a specialized police and functionally aggregated to the exercise of the Maritime Authority are not compatible with the amendments that are proposed today. The projects under review, in general, appear to be based on a assumption that takes as similar the Maritime Police and the Public Security Police. The absence of any reference to the functional relationship between the Maritime Authority and the Maritime Police would apparently mean the transfer of functional frames from the current Maritime Authority to another and new Maritime Police. Now, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, this is a solution that seems to us to be unannounced and would develop in the wake of the traditional vision of the role of the Navy in the universe of interventions in the coast and sea. With regard to the changes that are being discussed, it is seen that these are not just transfers of functional content, they go far in the reformulation of an institutional profile that has proved and deserves broad support. Moreover, for an analysis and study of matters relating to the Maritime Police, we will need to determinate ourselves in their reasons of being and in their functional morphology: a specialist police who is and has always been structured within the framework of the local maritime authority. Today's debate also proposes amendments to the National Maritime Authority's organics. Now, the current model of the structuring of the National Maritime Authority and the Navy has precisely as a cornerstone the dual leadership role of the Navy and the Maritime Authority and, in the view of the Socialist Party, the current model meets the requirements of flexibility, efficiency, efficiency, efficiency, cooperation, legality and constitutionality. The strategic concept of dual use, in the exercise of the authority of the State at sea, allows the obtaining of very significant synergies and advantages in the genetic, structural and operational fields, being the means and structures of the Maritime Authority and the Maritime Police built in a joint and coordinated manner with the existing means of the Navy. In Portugal, the application of this old concept of dual use is a distinguishing, positive and advantageous factor for the Maritime Authority, being a system that functions fully and benefits from maritime situational knowledge, command unit and centralized authority of strategic determination. The proposals of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party would make it impossible for the mandatory structural link between the Navy and the Directorate-General of the Maritime Authority, one of the key points of the current model and which results mainly from the fact that the cumulative command between heads of maritime zone, maritime department and command of a police force.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u212	Mr President, with the introduction discount, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u213	Mr President, to conclude with regard to the draft law regulating the right of association of maritime police personnel, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that its premises lack a long process of study and reflection, since it adopts inadequate solutions, taking into account the size of the maritime police structure at the level, for example, of the quantity of command.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u214	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u215	Madam President, I will actually finish, and I thank you. In short, and cross-sectionally, the Socialist Party cannot follow the meaning of these initiatives. The proposed amendments would result in the complete breakdown of the structures of the Navy and the Maritime Authority and its relationship, the advantages of which have been internationally recognised and with results which are recognised by all of us. Thank you very much and I'm sorry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u216	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : Today we discuss three bills, two of the Communist Party and one of the Left Block, about the Maritime Police's organics and about the National Maritime Authority itself. On the bill submitted by the Left Block, we have now been informed that the Left Block will make a proposal to bring it down to the Commission without a vote. We agree and will vote in favour of this request; however, I would like to inform you that we disagree with the bill presented here. And we disagree because we have a different interpretation than the one the Left Block has about the application of the law itself. When the Left Block says that the Maritime Police — and I repeat what is written in the law — "is an armed and uniformed police force, with specialized competence in the areas and materials legally assigned to the Maritime Authority ( SAM ) and to the AMN, consisting of military soldiers and military agents", it leads us to believe that we cannot adapt the legislation that has to do with other forces and security services to the socio-professional association of the Maritime Police. It's exactly because of this that we have a different view. However, the bill will go down to the Commission without a vote, and there we can make some improvements to what is currently in place, but we disagree with the overall view that the Left Block has on this matter. As for the draft laws submitted by the CFP, I have the following doubt: the CFP repeatedly invokes the adaptation of the National Maritime Authority and the operation of the Maritime Police to the Constitution of the Republic. I have some doubts as to whether the draft law that is presented here concerning the organic law of the Maritime Police will not fall within the sole competence of the Government. I have doubts as to whether Parliament may, by means of a proposal from a party, be discussing this. But also constitutionalists are not clear about this vision, so we are going to debate, which is what matters. It is also true when the CFP says that we are awaiting the Socialist Party's proposal, announced two years ago but never came for discussion in Parliament. Therefore, let us discuss what is proposed here. As for the vision that the CFP has, that the current model is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, we disagree with it and have already manifested it. In fact, it would be at least strange if, since 1998 or 1999, Portugal had been living in an unconstitutional model on this matter. Secondly — this is already a political vision — we believe that security and defence issues are interconnected and cannot be stagnant, as is the view of the CFP. Looking at the Constitution, we also do not consider that it, with the various changes it has had over time, points to this path of insanity in relation to security and defence matters. And we also believe that a positive constitutional development would be to strengthen the concept of security and defence in which security forces and services operated with the Armed Forces, because the threats, as we know, are no longer the same as they existed when the Constitution was made. Therefore, we do not agree with the view that the PCP has of the unconstitutionality of the current model, but it is also true that we do not look at it in a closed way. The CFP should be remembered—and it is a criticism that the CFP makes and that I accept, but I disagree again — that, in our view, in the previous Government, there has been a clarification, by decree-law, of the hierarchical dependence of the National Maritime Authority on the consequent adaptation of the law of the Maritime Police. The previous government has also made this clarification which, I think, has finally made it clear how things are. So we will not follow the CFP on this draft, we will vote against, we note that we are still awaiting the Government's proposal on this matter and, when it arrives — if it arrives! Is that what you're talking about? — the proposals of the CFP will also be discussed in the Defence Committee and we believe that we should go further in this matter. I do not want to end without first complimenting the representatives of the Socio-Professional Association of the Maritime Police here present and thank the Maritime Police,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u219	... despite the criticisms that are made to the model, by the exemplary work that you have done. It is not the Left Block and the PCP consider the wrong model that they no longer have a very important job. As has been said by my colleague Bruno Vitorino, we must also discuss very much the lack of means that the Maritime Police has and the screaming problems of lack of effect that the Maritime Police has and that the defence budgets over the past two, three years have not resolved, so this is a matter that we will discuss in the Budget. I'm checking that I've exceeded the time I had and so I'm sorry. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u220	To close the debate, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As an end to this debate, we would like to point out that the PSD, in Mr Bruno Vitorino's voice, read organic law, referred to the operations and raised the issue. If I had stayed around, I'd have been fine. The problem is that he then talked about defence and security issues—and was accompanied by Mr Rebelo—and said that it was difficult to separate the issue from the issue of security with regard to the Maritime Police.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u222	The world has changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u223	Now, if there is any case in which it is easy to separate defence and security issues is in the Maritime Police. The Maritime Police does not carry out a single mission that is remotely military, I repeat, a single mission that is remotely military, so it doesn't make sense that a criminal police agency is in hierarchical dependence on a branch of the Armed Forces. To those who think about these things don't confuse this organization, I'm sorry, it's hard to believe. On the other hand, it is necessary not to have a bit of a shame to speak in the attack on the Armed Forces when the PSD and the CDS in the previous government were responsible for the greatest crimes committed in the Armed Forces. I would, however, like to address my intervention to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr Jorge Gomes referred to the functional relationship and the need for liaison between the Navy and the Maritime Police. The question I want to leave to you and you. Members of the Socialist Party: whether or not it is true that the criminal police bodies, when they need support from any of the armed forces branches in their intervention, ask for such support and the branches of the armed forces respond in collaboration? Yes or no? Yes! The Air Force, the Navy and the Army collaborate with the Judicial Police, collaborate with the PSP, collaborate with the GNR, when necessary. There's articulation, there's collaboration. It's simple! But of course the criminal police have to remain in a civilian rather than a military structure, and that is the great challenge we have to face in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u224	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u225	Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave the following point: Mr Jorge Gomes said that this model gave evidence. I wanted you to ask the professionals of the Maritime Police if this model gave evidence. This because, if you talk to them, you quickly realize that these professionals don't have a career as they should have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u226	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u227	... they do not have access to emoluments—in fact, there is a very large injustice in the distribution of emoluments—there are socio-professional problems. Ask the professionals of the Maritime Police...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u228	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u229	...if this worked out, because they'll say it didn't work out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u230	Mrs. Members, the fifth and sixth points of our agenda do not have the time allocated for debate and relate, respectively, to Bill No 1011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Amends Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the Independent Technical Observatory for the analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory and the Proposal for a Resolution No 73 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mauritius on Air Services, signed in Port Louis, on 14 September 2017. We move on to point 7 with the assessment of the motion for a resolution No 74 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2018 / 994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76 / 787 / ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. I note that the Government and the parliamentary groups have two minutes to intervene. Mr Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking the Assembly of the Republic for the efforts it has made to enable it to proceed today to the vote on this motion for a resolution. Its content is very simple : it is a matter of approving the Council decision on the next electoral act for the European Parliament. All the provisions which will be required to be introduced in the national legislation of the different Member States following this Decision are already introduced in Portugal so that we can only adopt the Decision so that it can enter into force in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u232	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u233	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group called for a time, even if there was a reduced time, so that we could decide on this motion for a resolution on the adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European Parliament of an act on elections to the European Parliament. We have done so because we want to make it clear that, from our point of view, the institutions of the European Union should not interfere in what is the way each Member State decides to organise its electoral process. All States of the European Union have direct elections by secret vote of their citizens, all Member States have organised electoral processes, including for the European Parliament, and therefore we believe that it is in accordance with the constitutional and legal provisions of each State that these elections must be organised. It is said, and it is true, that for Portugal this Act is harmless, because the Portuguese State, in its constitution and in its Electoral Law for the European Parliament, already provides for what is necessary—so it is harmless for us—and it is positive that an express mention has been made in the Declaration of the Portuguese State that the barrier clause would never apply to us for constitutional reasons. The constitutional imperative prohibits the barrier clause. That is why we believe that the European Union must not interfere, even if indicative, with the imposition of barriers to Member States, either in provisions such as those relating to symbols to be used in ballots. In Portugal, legislation is very strict about symbols. In fact, as far as coalitions are concerned, parties are not free to choose the symbol of a coalition to which they belong. There is a register of symbols of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it makes no sense for the European Union to say: 'They can, if they want to, include the symbols of European parties', which, in fact, in Portugal, creates a curious problem, because there are two parties that compete separately for the elections, it is assumed that they would compete with the same symbol of the European party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u234	The PCP and the Greens always compete with the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u235	Clearly, it is unfair for the European institutions to become involved in matters which are sovereign and which must be decided in constitutional and legal terms by each Member State. It was to make clear our opposition to such acts that we would ask time for this debate to be given. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u236	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to say very directly, as the Minister has already explained, that Portugal is not under the scope of these obligations because it does not reach the limit of the 35 Members elected in our country. In any case, we do not fail to have an opinion on the decision in question and to question how it interferes with the sovereignty of countries. It is not because it does not interfere, in the specific case, with the sovereignty of Portugal which does not cease to deserve our opinion, in particular, the idea, now incorporated by this European perspective, of a brake clause for the representation of votes to the European Parliament, which is what is giving us a very bad result and which often allows the extreme right to take advantage of the electoral rules to gain the capital of complaint. In the end, the minimum limit from which the election can be chosen can be prevented if there is a vote which could even give the direct election of a Euro MP or a Euro MP. As this minimum limit is not reached, there is no election. However, this idea of minimum limits for representation has proved very bad, particularly in northern Europe. And now, as a general rule, this solution as a rule for elections to the European Parliament is, in practice, to insist on a mistake that gives more bonus to the extreme right, rather than regulates any democratic access. from the Left Block, we disagree with this decision. We recognize that the Government has been well when it said that it would not apply to Portugal, but we are concerned about how Europe looks at its democratic acts and how this decision on the table basically imposes these little democratic rules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u238	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u239	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is a European party, it is a party that believes in the European Union project and knows until a large part, not all, of Portugal's design is exactly in Europe. But our Europeanism is not blind, nor does it make us take for granted everything that comes from Brussels. One of the principles, the essential principle of European construction, is subsidiarity, above all a principle that is a tribute to the Christian democracies of Europe. We know very well that electoral laws are national competences, they are the powers of the States, defined in their constitutions. I am glad that the European Council has expressed its concern about the political participation of European citizens in each of its Member States, but the European Council cannot, nor should it impose common rules, mandatory rules, rules which overlap up to the national rules of the States, in particular the imposition of a barrier clause setting a minimum limit of 2 % to 5 %. We know that this barrier clause only applies to 35 Members, which is not the Portuguese case, but what is wrong is the European Council itself to think that it makes sense to have a norm, which is mandatory, which overlaps with the electoral laws of each of the States. For us, this makes no sense, so the CDS does not follow the Government and will vote against this motion for a resolution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u240	Mr Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u241	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : At the beginning of congratulating Mr Minister, I must say that it is with some surprise that we see ourselves exalted on this matter, which should in some way be consensual, even due to the position of the Portuguese State in the vote and in the clear declaration it made in relation to the barrier clause and also to the national constitutional imperative. This was made clear by the Portuguese State. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a major chronic problem in our country about the political participation of Portuguese in the European elections, and that is the underlying issue. It should be remembered that Portugal is the eighth most abstention Member State in Europe, only 34, 5 % of voters were actually in the polls. Despite a widely pro-European feeling of the population, something still does not work in the call for vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against abstention should be a major concern for all Portuguese political parties if we do not want to be labeled by future populists as 'they are all the same'. That would only be the resignation of democracy. Being close to the next electoral act of the European Parliament, this is of great importance, so it is important to prepare, in due course, the political debate on the forthcoming European elections and the procedural rules themselves. It is worth recalling the timing of this issue: in July 2018, the European Council adopted the decision we discussed here, and several months later the Government sent Parliament the motion for a resolution necessary to validate that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u242	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u243	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. However, just a few months later, we received it here. However, it is not because we have lost all this time that European political consciousness is improving. We could have discussed this matter longer and not on top of the event.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u244	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u245	This is not how European policy is discussed. We could have discussed this matter longer and not on the knee, as it was done, almost overnight, from yesterday to today, because Parliament is not the notary of the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u246	Mr Margarida Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u247	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Dear colleagues : The decision we are going to vote today deals with matters relating to the exclusive competence of the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with Article 146. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We recall that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union entrusts the European Parliament with the task of drawing up, and I quote, « a project designed to establish the necessary provisions to allow the election of its members by direct universal suffrage, according to a uniform process in all Member States or based on common principles to all Member States ». As we all know, there is no common law, there are common principles. in this new amendment of the Decision, it is common principles that we are talking about, i.e., principles of respect for a democratic rule of law that deal with an increasingly present reality, such as the dual residence and therefore the risk of double voting, or which take care to increase the voting of communities living in third countries. The principles now proposed are consistent with the way in which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic democratically frames the electoral acts and the Portuguese electoral laws already fully comply with the mandatory provisions laid down by the Decision. The transparency of the electoral process and access to reliable information are fundamental to ensuring greater electoral participation. Moreover, the last European Council called for measures to protect the democratic systems of the European Union and to combat misinformation, particularly in the context of the forthcoming European elections, in full respect of fundamental rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u248	For a second intervention, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the speeches. It is entirely logical from a democratic point of view that the election to the European Parliament should be governed by common principles in all Member States. For this reason, the European Parliament, on 4 July, and the Council, acting unanimously shortly thereafter, adopted this Decision and the Government presented on 13 September to this House the motion for a resolution approving this Decision. In Portugal, this Decision does not raise any question, but it is very important to consider which issues are essential to us, such as the prevention of double voting, the need to ensure that nationals resident in other Member States can exercise their right to vote or even the need to have a minimum time limit for the submission of candidatures, make sense and there are laws of several Member States that do not yet have these mandatory principles. In the Portuguese case, one question was raised, which was the existence of a barrier clause, which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic did not authorize. So when we followed the Council decision unanimously, we made a statement that this provision could never be applied in Portugal by constitutional imperative. The Assembly of the Republic has been able to hold this debate, and once again there has been a broad consensus which European issues raise in this Parliament and therefore we are all pleased. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u250	We have thus reached the conclusion of the general debate on the motion for a resolution No 74 / XIII / 3. a. The next point, for which there are no time allocated for debate, concerns the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences to which Mr André Pinotes Batista, PS, Mrs Rubina Berardo and Mrs Margarida Mano, PSD, and Mr. Mr Cristovão Norte and Mr Amadeu Soares Alberga, so we can start the votes. Let us begin with Vote No 640 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and signed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the results of the Portuguese Mission at the Olympic Youth Games in Buenos Aires, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u251	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « They took place in Argentina, in Buenos Aires, between 6 and 18 October, the III Olympic Games of Youth. The competition brought together more than 4000 young people between the ages of 15 and 18 from all continents, representing 203 countries, and competed in 31 modes. The Olympic Games of Youth are the largest event on a global scale in the part of young high sports performance, but they are also a privileged meeting and sharing space among generations that must be guaranteed a better future. Portugal presented its highest ever representation, with the presence of 41 athletes, divided by 12 modalities, and with a gender equality in participation that is important to raise ( 20 girls and 21 boys). The sporting results at this event were the best with the achievement of 5 Olympic medals, by the national selection of female futsal(gold), by the multinational triathlo team, composed of Alexandre Montez (gold), by the national selection of male beach andebol (gold), also by Alexandre Montez in the triatlo(gold) and also by the multinational team of acrobatic gymnas, composed of Madalena Cavilhas and Manuel Candeias (gold). Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its satisfaction at Portugal's participation in the Olympic Games of Youth, praising the Olympic Committee of Portugal, the participating Sports Federations and the entire Portuguese delegation, with particular emphasis on the medal athletes. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u252	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then it will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro, Vote No. 641 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of praise for the results achieved by Portugal at the European Kickboxing Seniors Championship in Slovakia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u253	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Portugal welcomes the achievement of seven medals at the European Kickboxing Seniors Championship at WAKO—World Association of Kickboxing Organizations, which took place in Bratislava, Slovakia. The athletes André Santos and Rita Carvalho, in Low Kick- 63 kg and in K1-56 kg respectively, obtained an honorable second place, collecting the silver medal and thus sanctifying themselves European vice champions of the modality. Also the athletes Luís Sousa, Leandro Miranda, Renato Costa, Ricardo Fernandes and Adolfo Barão brought each of them a bronze medal. The results achieved by the luxury athletes are very revealing of the dedication and work they have in their preparation for European championships, where competition with athletes from other countries is considerable. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates the Portuguese athletes winning seven medals at the European Kickboxing Seniors Championship and, simultaneously, the national selectors Alberto Costa and José Reis, by the fact achieved, that much honours the Country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u254	Kickboxing athletes André Santos and Rita Carvalho and some representatives of the Federation are present in the gallery. I want, therefore, to greet them. We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is the vote No 642 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of praise for the results achieved by the Portuguese athletes in the Youth Olympics in Buenos Aires. Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u255	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Portugal ended with a positive balance its participation in the Youth Olympics held in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The National Selection of Futsal Female Sub-19 reached the gold medal, won in the Fair Play category by the clean disciplinary sheet, had the best defense, only five tents suffered, and the best attack — 57 goals marked, of which 21 had the signature of Ana Sofia Gonçalves, known as ‘ Fifo’, which was also the best scorer of the tournament. in other modes, Alexandre Montez won gold and silver medals in triathlo, the beach andebol team drew a second place and the double Manuel Candeias and Madalena Canavilhas achieved the silver medal in gymnastics. in a committee composed of 41 athletes distributed by 12 different modes, this achieved in an international sports competition honours all Portuguese, demonstrating well the commitment, dedication and professionalism with which national athletes and their technical teams face these competitions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and congratulates the Portuguese athletes who participated in the Youth Olympics as well as their technical teams, highlighting the results achieved. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1860 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Guatemala. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] There is still another vote we have to vote on. This is the vote No 645 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS ) — Greetings and praise to the Republican National Guard for its action in the Aegean Sea. I ask Secretary Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u257	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The participation of the Republican National Guard in the operations of the European Union within the Frontex has revealed the quality of its operational capacity and in particular the priority given to the protection of human lives and the treatment with dignity of persons who are in a fragile situation in the waters of the Mediterranean and at the external borders of the European Union, corresponding to the integrated approach launched by the Union. currently, there are 60 soldiers of that force in Greece, integrated in the island of Samos, in two Forces of Coastal Guard Control Unit, which also has a prominent force on the island of Kastellorizo. These forces are responsible for patrolling the maritime border with Turkey and, when already in Greek waters, to accompany or rescue those in need of help. Since the beginning of his mission, with professionalism and sense of service, more than 2500 people were rescued and assisted, and only 70 in the previous week. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and praises the role of the Republican National Guard military in the performance of its mission, within which it has assisted and ensured the rescue of thousands of human lives, deigning the Portuguese presence in sharing responsibility within the framework of the European response. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u258	We shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u259	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u260	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u261	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u262	Be registered. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 118 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create and regulate the issue and use of the identity card of diplomatic and consular agents. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The same proposal for a law is followed by a special vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall also vote in a comprehensive final vote on the same bill. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the PS, asking for a discharge from the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without a vote, for a period of 90 days, of the Proposal for a Law No 133 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of young associivism. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 12. the Commission. We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 140 / XIII / 3 in the overall speciality and in the overall final vote. a ( GOV ) — Authorises the Government to establish the sanctioning regime applicable to the exercise of commercial maritime fishing activity. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and PAN and against BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u264	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u265	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u266	Be registered. We will now vote on another request by the PS, asking the Health Committee to be discharged, without voting for a period of 90 days from the Proposal for a Law No 142 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime for the collection, processing, analysis, availability and use, storage and destruction of cells and tissues of human origin for scientific research purposes, including stem cells. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of military theft in Tankos. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then vote on a request submitted by the NAP for discharge to the Health Commission without a vote for a period of 60 days from the Bill No. 984 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Ensure non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under 6 years of age. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] That bill goes down, then, to 9. the Commission. We then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 880 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct studies and awareness-raising actions on the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and consumption of methylphenidate and atomoxetine by children and young people. This diploma will be voted on by points. First we shall vote on point 6. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the EB and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 7 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens, the vote in favour of the NAP and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u268	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u269	Mr President, I would like to announce that I voted in favour of point 6. It does not alter the sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u270	Be registered. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining points, 1 to 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 881 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures at the level of the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit (PHDA) and the prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine in children and young people. This draft resolution will also be voted on by points. Let us begin by voting on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the Greens, the vote in favour of the NAP and abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] We shall then vote on the remaining points, 1 to 3, of the same motion for a resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 882 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote an extended debate and sensitize health professionals to the use of various PHDA diagnostic tests. This initiative will also be voted on by points. We shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE and the PCP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens of the Member of the PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u272	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u273	Mr President, it is only to confirm that in relation to point 1 we voted in favour and abstained in relation to point 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u274	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u276	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u277	Mr President, taking advantage of this short pause, I would also like to inform the Bureau that in the vote on the remaining points of draft resolution No 880 / XIII / 2. the CFP voted in favour, but wanted to change the sense of vote to abstention. This doesn't change the result, but I wanted to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u278	Mr President, this amendment is registered. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 832 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Prevention of excessive consumption of central nervous system stimulants ( Ritaline and Strattera ) to treat hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 835 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recognizes that compensation interest is due when undue payment of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the obligation to pay indemnities when the collection of tax benefits has been based on unconstitutional or illegal standards ( 46 ). the amendment to the General Tax Law ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now have, for the vote, a request from the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No. 975 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Promotes the establishment of an Observatory to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also voted for a request by the Left Block, requesting the discharge of the Health Commission, without voting for a period of 60 days from the Bill No. 976 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against domestic, sexual and minor violence (Fifth Sixth Amendment to the Criminal Code). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 977 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the possibilities for the application of preventive detention and limiting the application of the figure of the provisional suspension of proceedings (Thirty first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of BE and PAN were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u280	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u281	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u282	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 978 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates the Trials of Domestic Violence. [[Subject to the vote, PS, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes in favour of BE were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1013 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amends Article 41. the Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the procedures for the cooperation of employers with workers victims of domestic violence. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, PCP and Os Verdes, votes against BE, PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 1017 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the Civil Code, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence or ill-treatment. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 237 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Sea Police Organization. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 238 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — National Maritime Authority. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by an application submitted by BE, requesting the resignation of the National Defence Commission, without voting for a 60-day period of the Bill No 1009 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Regulates the right of association of the staff of the Maritime Police ( First Amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 3. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1011 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Change Law No 56 / 2018, of 20 August, which establishes the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u284	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u285	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I abstained from this diploma and that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for draft resolution No 1618 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and the extension of the rights of animal associations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 73 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mauritius on Air Services, signed in Port Louis, on 14 September 2017. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 74 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2018 / 994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act on the election of members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76 / 787 / ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and PS and against BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We will now vote for the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2019. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1585 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Dynamization of the National Housing Commission. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the PS Member Helena Roseta.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1587 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Improvement of the National Rent Balcony. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1589 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government raise a subsidy for the lease for numerous and single-parent families. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 821 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates an incentive to rent housing by reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of income arising from lease contracts for housing, amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u287	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u288	Mrs. Helena Roseta, we are already voting. For what effect does the word ask?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u289	Mr President, it was for an appeal to the Bureau before the vote, but they did not see me in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u290	Madam Member, we are voting...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u291	Mr. President, there's a procedural problem, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the vote... Mrs. Members, we are generally voting on Bill No. 821 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates an incentive to rent housing by reducing the autonomous rate of taxation, within IRS, of income arising from lease contracts for housing, amending the Single Persons Income Tax Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] I don't know if Mrs. Helena Roseta still wants to make her appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u293	The matter is over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u294	We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1476 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government amend the system of reserve funds for the buildings in force, ensuring their effective existence and use due, by means of a supervision to be carried out by the municipalities, promoting the existence of the financing necessary for the conservation of buildings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Helena Roseta and abstentions from the PAN and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1477 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures for the protection and promotion of lease, in particular the measures necessary for the establishment of the legal system of income insurance. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] The general vote is followed by draft resolution No 1586 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government create an income insurance. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 1582 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Transparency in the processes of alienation from the National Rehabilitation Fund of State Buildings. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 1583 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, undertake the conversion and rehabilitation of buildings belonging to Colina de Santana in Lisbon, so that they can be used for housing, in a programme to be created or already existing, with a view to renting for moderate housing purposes, mainly for young people and middle class families. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1584 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake to raise the real estate of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, in order to create a programme for the rehabilitation or construction of residential buildings at moderate prices. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 1588 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government raise a lease allowance in situations of sudden fragility. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1591 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate with a view to renting. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1318 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of grants and support for paralympic athletes equal to those of the Olympic athletes, 1795 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a scheme that allows the pairing of paralympic athletes to Olympic athletes with regard to the allocation of support and scholarships and 1797 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government compare Olympic and Paralympic athletes at levels two and three. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, on draft Law No 869 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — The purpose of implementing a system of incentive and storage of plastic, glass and aluminium beverages. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE and PAN, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u295	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u296	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u297	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u298	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Álvaro Castello-White has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u299	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-26.u300	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on Bills Nos 737 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increases the tax transparency of fuels through more detailed information to consumers and 760 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the consumer's reporting duty to the energy consumer. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of today's votes. The next plenary meeting will be, as you know, next Monday at 3 p.m., whose agenda consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 155 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2019 and 156 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2019. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 51 minutes.]]
