ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let us begin today's plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, today we have a full agenda filled with the evaluation of draft laws and draft resolutions on the prevention and fight against forest fires as well as on family agriculture. Without further delay, I shall give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, through Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, to present draft resolutions 1254 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government compile and make available all legislative production for the 2017 forest fires at the electronic portals of government and public administration and take the necessary measures to convey information to citizens in their territories ( CDS-PP ), 1399 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open a new period of applications for action 6.2.2 of PDR 2020, so that farmers affected by the October fires that did not apply can do so ( CDS-PP ) and 1444/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a mission unit for the structural reorganization of the operational fire department ( CDS-PP ), which will be discussed in conjunction with the remaining diplomas on the agenda today. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several times, at different times, the CDS-PP warned about the pressing need to give effective support to small farmers affected by the 2017 fires. There is a need for close and continuous help, more comprehensive work on the ground, monitoring and counseling. Many received adequate and timely information and acted; others did not act, many because they did not receive the information or because they did not understand its meaning and scope. While it is recognized that the need for urgent support requires shorter application periods, the precipitation with which the things were done, the rush to appease the souls and public opinion caused a very significant number of injuries not even to be noticed that the claims of injury did not set up any candidature for the specific measures of the October fires. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u3	This has happened for several reasons, which must be considered, stressing from the outset the fact that most of these farmers are advanced in their age and difficulty in accessing new technologies. More: at the time of the regimental hearing, we asked the Minister of Agriculture about the willingness to open a new period for applications. In addition to having absolutely denied this possibility, the Minister even stated, so that we consider it unqualified, that no other government had had the generosity of this one, that he was willing to spend 60 million euros to compensate for the losses of the victims of the October fires. He even pointed out that it was taxpayers' money, ours and him. Well, in the CDS we don't believe that one Portuguese gets up to claim so if you use your tax money. This is no less than the obligation of the Government, especially because of the undeniable responsibility of the State in this tragedy. Not only is it a farmer or owner, it is true that the State failed to protect him. The right to be repaired cannot now disappear, or be ignored, much less because it is impossible to meet short deadlines or the inability to understand what has not been sufficiently informed or clearly explained. The CDS-PP considers it to be entirely and elementary justice to recognize the exceptionality of the situation and to determine the opening of a new period for the submission of applications. That is what he recommended in the draft resolution. The Greens and the CFP also presented draft resolutions on this subject and BE declared to monitor and support all initiatives in the same direction. It is also appropriate to recall the words of the PS Member John Gouveia last Tuesday at the hearing on 7th. the Injury Commission and the Association of Victims. I quote: "We are only on one side, where there are problems in solving what is within the scope of our competence, seeking to do everything so that, who has the power to solve, it actually solves. (...) With humility and sense of responsibility, we will be, because we could not otherwise be natural allies of your concerns and, above all, of the injustices that you feel (...)". And also (...) to recommend, in the exercise of our competence, that there be no injustice(...) to do what needs to be done and to resolve what is yet to be resolved. We hope that, for once, the given word will be an honest word! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u4	Mr André Silva now has the floor to present the projects of lein.os 654 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the criminal framework for forest fire crime ( PAN), 656 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes the forest fire crime in the list of priority research crimes ( PAN) and 672 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the integration of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and creates an animal rescue and rescue team ( PAN) as well as draft resolution No 1455/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government replace the current fire risk forecasting index ( CRM) in the fire management mechanisms ( NAP) which will also be discussed in conjunction with the remaining diplomas on the agenda today. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u5	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 2017 represented the worst year ever in relation to the burning forest area — more than 500 000 ha, loss of life of people, loss of life of animals and destruction of property and ecosystems, calamity leading to the presentation of four legislative initiatives by the NAP. Since the overwhelming majority of fires that cause fires, 98 %, have human origin and knowing that 36 % of this frightening percentage is fatal, the NAP considers that the minimum limits of a year for forest fire crime are manifestly insufficient and inadequate. Thus, both the minimum penalties, inexplicably low, and the maximums, in cases of greater seriousness, should be increased in a logic of general awareness and of the community's confidence in the effective criminal protection of these goods, combined with the deterrence of the practice of future crimes by potential precursors. On the other hand, the Criminal Policy Framework Act for the Biennial of 2017 - 2019 includes the forest fire crime in the list of priority prevention crimes, but leaves it out of the role of priority research crimes, which is not understood, taking into account the current context in which we live. The scourge of forest fires in our country deserves particular attention from the legislator, and the crime of forest fire should be considered as a priority, either in the prevention aspect or in research. In addition, we believe that the current fire risk forecast index should be replaced by the meteorological fire hazard index, giving priority to the analysis of extreme weather conditions, which tend to intensify in the future due to the obvious climate changes. Finally, the NAP considers that municipal veterinary doctors should be integrated as civil protection agents, creating rescue and rescue teams to enable them to respond in good time to the needs of animals and persons holding animals on the ground. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only with integrated measures will we be able to prevent and mitigate the scourge of fires. We believe that the proposals put forward are clearly moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u6	by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Dias, has the floor to present the following legislative initiatives, which will be discussed in conjunction with the rest of today's agenda : projects of lein.o 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ) and 812 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( CFP ) and draft resolutions No 1247 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create, make available and keep up to date an electronic portal where information related to the responses created following the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ), 1446 / XIII ( 3 ) is disclosed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of applications for support for victims of the 2017 forest fires, the establishment of an appropriate timetable for payment of support and the clarification and extension of the criteria used for supporting purposes ( CFP ), 1447 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to support family farming as a structural option for the defence and development of the rural world, in particular in areas affected by fires ( CFP ) and 1448 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For a new civil protection policy ( CFP ). Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 24 January 2018, it was unanimously approved the holding of quarterly hearings to government members with responsibilities in fire-related matters, with a view to the appropriate monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of the fire prevention strategy and the results of forest legislation. Let us start further this debate, from which there may be another regulatory package, to denounce that, until today, no hearing has been held. It cannot be admitted that the members of the Government are robbing themselves of the supervision of the Assembly of the Republic and the provision of accounts to which they are obliged. The delay is already very significant and probably irrecoverable, and the Government's propaganda by the country does not replace questioning, countering facts and opinions and monitoring by elected Members. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u8	Subsequent delays by the respective ministers, always due to agenda requirements, are not a good symptom and compromises regular monitoring of the matter of forest fires by the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings to this debate the duty that the Government has to ensure compensation for the damage to the victims of the 2017 fires. The situation was exceptional and requires exceptional measures. We understand that the government must give another opportunity to all those who, for various reasons, were unable to apply for aid in the previous period. A new period of applications is open to ensure that the victims of the fires are compensated for the damage suffered and that citizens are not excluded only because they were unable or could not apply in the first phase. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The completion of the secondary fuel management bands with the dimensions provided for in the legislation imposes income losses which are not compensated in the current legislative framework. in the case of forest properties in minifundio, this obligation can even prevent forest exploitation, favoring the abandonment of the rural world of the north and center of the country, affecting many small owners and farmers who are already discussing themselves with serious sustainability problems. in this sense, the PCP proposes that in parcels that integrate fuel management ranges in which, for this reason, its productive potential in forest terms is conditioned, administrative service is established, with corresponding compensation to owners due to loss of income resulting from the affected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP defends the forest and the rural world. Beyond the guarantee of their ordering and betting, with income for owners, in indigenous species, requires employment, public services, public investment and fair prices for agricultural and forestry production, because without people it is not possible to manage the forest. The CFP therefore stresses the need for concrete and immediate mechanisms of support for family agriculture, including support for investments by small and medium-sized farmers; the dynamisation of proximity markets for local production flow; support for small farmers' organisations and cooperatives for investment in collective food collection and conservation equipment; and support for investments by small and medium-sized farmers or their organisations for the processing of agricultural and livestock products. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 153. the State Budget for 2018, which deals with the Exceptional Scheme of Secondary Fuel Management Branch Networks, implements the deresponsibility of the central forest policy administration and defines a procedure that is impermissible to the authorities. It determines the article that if landowners do not carry out their cleaning until 15 March, the authorities must do so until 31 May, i.e. set the 75-day deadline for the authorities to manage fuel. Authorities are also required to clean around the electrical network, the responsibility of REN or EDP, which makes no sense. It understands the CFP that the Government must take steps to ensure that these companies, with extraordinary profits, fulfil their responsibilities. Article 153. it further determines that, if the municipalities do not manage fuel within 75 days, the Government will retain 20 % of the transfers of the State budget under the Financial Balance Fund, which is unacceptable and unacceptable. Therefore, the CFP proposes a surgical correction, removing inadequate and inexhaustible standards without any impact on the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u9	by the Parliamentary Group of the Block of Left, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor to present to us draft law No 675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Criminal Policy Framework Act and to the law defining the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, considering the crime of forest fire as a crime of priority research ( BE) and draft resolutions 1489/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assign priorities in the transformation of forests for better fire protection ( BE ) and 1490 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that firefighters entitled to pay under the DECIF receive these amounts directly ( BE ), which are discussed together with the other initiatives on the agenda today. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot project effective changes in the fight against fires nor can we expect happier outcomes until we guarantee conditions of work and performance of functions in security and dignity to men and women who face the flames every year. These men and women, firefighters and firefighters, they are the ones worth us at all times of trouble. Whenever we need help there they're ready to answer the call. But we rarely think about the conditions that these men and women have to perform these functions, the difficulties they face and what is required of them. Individual protective equipment is missing a little in all corporations — many have already exceeded the validity deadline, some more than 10 years ago! — lack of cars, lack of decent meals in operations theatres, lack of hours of rest due, lack of career progress, lack of elements, whether they are professional firefighters or voluntary firefighters. Firemen's bodies are aged and weakened, everybody knows. The retirement rules remain unresolved. They are obliged, by law, to retire between 50 and 60 years of age, but are penalized with absolutely gross cuts in their available income. They can't work anymore, but they can't get the right reform either. There's no excuse! This is indeed the cluster of disrespect and contempt! And what about the 600 municipal firefighters who in Portugal earn €580 monthly and to whom we ask, without any smell, to risk their lives to save ours? It is with 580 € per month that these people pay home, put food on the table, put their children in school, pay water, light and gas. The disappointment with which they have been treated would have caused any or any of us to vacillate. The creation of the unique career of firefighters in the local administration, also claimed decades ago by professional firefighters, has been continually ignored by successive governments. Currently, Article 99. that of the State Budget Act for 2018 determines, by proposal of the Left Block, a review of the staff status of the professional firefighters of the local administration, resulting in the uniformization of the careers of the squat and municipal firefighters, but until now, again, nothing has happened. Another of the difficulties imposed on firefighters is compensation when they integrate the Special Device of Combating Forest Fires (DecIF). The DECIF, which was created to ensure, on a permanent basis, an adequate and articulated operational response during the most critical periods of the year, provides for the allocation of ‘staff expenditure’ support for firefighters and firefighters who provide services during that period. However, this amount is not paid directly to firefighters and firefighters but to the institutions that integrate them. The delay of months in payments is the rule and even the lack of payment, in many corporations, is frequent either because these institutions do not proceed immediately to payment, or because they retain the amounts in question to ensure other commitments of the institution itself. Despite recognizing the difficulties these institutions face, this is a right of firefighters and firefighters, a small contribution that makes the difference not only in their daily lives, but also in valuing their dedication and self-sufficient effort to print their duties. It represents the fair payment for the work done, that any worker or worker has the right to receive in time and time. Because this is a situation that cannot continue to occur, the Left Block presents this draft resolution, proposing that these amounts for the firefighters that integrate the DECIF be paid by bank transfer, directly to the firefighters and to the firefighters beneficiaries. This small but fundamental amendment, in addition to allowing the registration and hence the most reliable monitoring and accurate on the number of elements that make up the DECIF, also represents the strictest respect for the rights of work and for the dignity of these men and women. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u11	To present the PSD initiatives, i.e. Bill No. 820 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Creates the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory and draft resolutions 1474 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of information systems to support operational decision-making in the fight against forest fires, 1478 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the use of tracking machines in the fight against forest fires and 1482 / XIII 83. ( a ) — It recommends that the Government promote an adaptation of forest fire protection, which are discussed in conjunction with the other initiatives on the related agenda today, Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dressed in a coat where the fluorescent orange predominated, the Minister of Internal Administration went this weekend to a village of the council of Ansion with the noble function of investing a security officer, ready to go to the chapel play the fight and grab a megaphone to take people to a shelter as soon as they saw the fire. Two weeks earlier, with another uniform suitable for the spectacular plant cleaning simulation, Penela echoed the horn that « has never been made so much in terms of cleaning and prevention ». Three months earlier, he had asked the Secretary of State of the Forests to say that the government will move forward this year with a pilot project by him baptized as “stolen goats”. Three acts, three laboratory scenes, from this morning to the fourth, with the news, already on top of this debate, that this year there will be more men, more air resources, more firefighters, more everything. There is no reason to ignore this strategy, but when the scale of the tragedies is gigantic, we agree that, by shame, there is some folklore, some circus and some statements that should be avoided. In addition to worthy actions (which exist and which, attention, are praised and laudable) and the wise transfer of responsibilities to citizens and municipalities, there is in this by the government a meticulous fabrication of facts with two objectives: the first is to shake the idea that the government failed in 2017,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u13	... and the second is to try to assimilate the idea that, in 2018, everything is providentially prepared. Nothing more illusory. Unfortunately, one thing is what it looks like and what is announced, something else, quite different, is what it is. In a record that remains for history, 24 initiatives are under discussion today — attention, 24 initiatives! — proposing, advising or recommending measures which the Government has not yet adopted. It's funny, there's not one party—see, it's one party! — in this Parliament, from left to right, which has no suggestions to make to the Government. Everyone, without exception, believes that more, better and different from what the government is doing, including the Socialist Party, must be done! What does that mean? If Parliament mobilises itself in this way, with this expressionivity, it is because it considers that what is being done is not enough and that the current forestry and civil protection policy is still far below the level of self-satisfaction that this Government manifests on the day-to-day basis of its campaign by the country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth debate here on fires. We therefore pray that public opinion (or part thereof) is reasonably tired of hearing about the topic of fires. But the PSD is not tired, nor will it ever get tired, of everything to make sure that in 2018 people have to be much safer than they were in 2017 and that dramas such as Pedrogan's and those of October 15 and 16 last year can never be repeated. But one thing is certain: the state of art is not quite reassuring. The rental of air resources, in good time and for fair price, is a mirage. The Kamovs continue in prolonged coma state, with their repair until it is consumed. It's all a dam. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] As far as air resources are concerned, the government literally runs with its head in the air. with regard to the land media, the government has not yet sat down, has not yet landed and has not yet set foot on the ground. contrary to what happened in previous years, the National Operational Directive (the one establishing the planning, organisation and coordination of all operational means) has not yet been revealed. If time changes, and it will change, and if fires come back, and they're going back, we may have to face a new chaos. The notices come from everywhere and now, also this time and again, from the PSD bench, which asks the government to be faster, faster, more effective, more responsible and less feared and pan-fletarian. The PSD is available to contribute and, therefore, presents three draft resolutions and a bill today. It is this bill that we synthetically present here. We propose the creation of an independent and specialized technical observatory, with 10 experts, which is not linked to the Assembly of the Republic, nor to the political power, nor to the Government, and which will have, in summary, three missions: first, to assess the origin of fires, providing preventive responses and making recommendations for the future; second, to analyze and evaluate the performance of all civil protection entities and fire fighting devices, as well as relevant public communication and services systems, in particular health centres; and, finally, to monitor the impact of public measures that are being implemented. This claim, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is approved, it is, in our view, a very useful instrumental step in minimizing the problems facing the country in this area. This is the challenge we confidently put here. These gross fires went out today or tomorrow six months. But what has not yet been erased was the memory of the people and the suffering of the victims' families. These are the ones that deserve the state and political power (all of us, all parliamentary groups) to meet their responsibilities, projecting the future of civil protection. It is with this mission and with this spirit that the PSD is in this debate and will come out of this debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u14	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade wrote to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u15	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I do not understand whether your references to the various government interventions in this area, and which have been very public, have resulted from your fascination with the colors used in civil protection uniforms, because, we agree, the Government has said, and has done so, that a mobilization of Portuguese society is needed. In fact, the government alone cannot create all the conditions necessary to prevent fires because the reports point to failures in the country at the most different levels, most of which depend on the performance of populations, authorities and companies. Therefore, we cannot at the same time be asking the Government to help in mobilising society and then when there are actions to raise awareness and mobilize that same society, treat everything as propaganda. It is not propaganda, Mr President, that the government is doing what it has to do in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me also tell you why you have not come forward with your draft resolutions and, if I may, I will do so a little by yourself, that the fact that there are PS draft resolutions does not often mean that the government is not acting on this issue. Moreover, the draft resolutions submitted by the PSD, in terms of geo-reference of operating systems or tracking machines, are not only initiatives that deserve our agreement and, as far as we know, are also areas in which the government is working in the same direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, Mr President, it is important to look at these proposals and see how they confront that PSD thesis that the government ultimately caused the fires and the disasters of 2017. Are we asking ourselves: does this government undo any geo-referenced operational support systems that have already been implemented? Has this government sent to Africa any tracking machines that were here, ready, planned and inventoryed? Don't! What has happened, Mr President, we must recognise that there has been no development over a decade of the reform of the firefighting system which was carried out in 2006. And there was probably not, because time was better, the weather risks were lower and therefore the results over a decade of burned areas were better. All the last several governments have had some complacency in this matter. Therefore, Mr President, I am the first to think that, no, the risks of the forest are not eliminated, that some of them, structural ones, will take some time to eliminate, that the task for which the whole country has agreed is a task that must mobilise us all and will not be completed perfectly this year. We are all absolutely aware of this. It is a task that has now begun because neither this government nor the previous government nor the government before it (only to share responsibility here, assuming also in the other government that the Socialist Party was part of), none of these governments took structural measures in the prevention, in the forest, in the civil protection, measures that, as it was seen last year, were necessary, would have been useful and, worse, could have been taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u16	To reply, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u17	Mr President, Mr Andrade wanted to speak, for example, of these last three governments, concluding that none of them did what they could and should do in the area of forest prevention and civil protection. Mr Member, I could go further, and go further, to remind you that in the last 22 years — I repeat, in the last 22 years — the Socialist Party has performed government functions in 14 of them, 68% of the time,... [[All right! That's a lot! That's a lot!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u18	... and that, in the last 20 years, the current Minister of Agriculture has been Minister for 10 years,... [[Well remembered! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u19	... that is, about 50 % of the time. [[PS protests.]] If you want to compare responsibilities, compare the time when you had responsibility for these matters and the time when the PSD also had that responsibility. [[All right! It's all said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u20	But that is not what matters now, it is not so much to look at the past, what we want is that the government does not hit the sun with the sieve and does not transfer it to the populations, and only to them and to the authorities, which is of its sole responsibility: to ensure the collective security of the people. What this government did when changing the leadership and the civil protection coordinates shortly before the fires were irresponsible... [[PS protests.]] [[It was a serious mistake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u21	... and what the reports say is that this government has been at the centre of fire failures in 2017. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u22	You don't know that! It could have been worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u23	This is the truth, sir. So, what I mean to you is that the PSD is mobilized, it makes sense of state,... [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] ... has a great sense of responsibility and wants to turn this debate into a national cause, because, out of respect for the victims and in memory of the people, we believe that these matters must be addressed seriously and always in a close relationship between all parliamentary groups. It is in this spirit that we are in this debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u24	Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva has the floor to present draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the disclosure, through a specific website for this purpose, of information relating to the response to fires, and through other mechanisms for access to information ( PS ) and 1488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to be promoted within the framework of the forest fire prevention and control system ( PS ), which are discussed in conjunction with the other initiatives on the agenda today. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The major fires of 2017 have made the need to overcome the weaknesses of the forest sector unacceptable. We owe it to all the victims, and no one would forgive us if we did nothing, with a view to finding solutions. It is that some are appalled, but they do nothing but take political advantage of the tragedies; others, however, are appalled and act. The Assembly of the Republic and the Government could not dissociate themselves from these responses, nor have we done so, to which we have added the draft resolutions that we are presenting today and which aim to go beyond what has already been done. Forest reform, measures taken within the Council of Ministers and State budget measures demonstrate that the Government is committed to responding adequately to all dimensions associated with fires and the need to value forest and protect populations. More recently, therefore, a set of measures has been adopted in the Council of Ministers, which are said to be based on the conclusions and recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission ( TSI ) and responds to the problem of forest recovery and defence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss this issue again in this House, which has surprised the country, we are also given the opportunity to tell the country what the current government has done and does. The current government has set priorities and has put forward measures to prevent the 2017 tragedies from repeated. Thus, in the context of prevention, the Government promoted the awareness-raising campaign on fuel management obligations in the safe villages component; forces of the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) were committed to structural prevention work, including in fuel cleaning and management actions; it created the Safe Persons and Safe Village programmes, the automatic system of warning to populations and the strengthening of surveillance. All these prevention measures are accompanied by measures in the field of combat, and also here the Government has introduced measures including strengthening the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ), the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service) and the Florist Guards, through the external recruitment of 600 military personnel for GNR. The external competition was also approved for the hiring of 200 Florist Guards, as well as the creation of three new companies in the GIPS, in the GNR, with 240 military, specialized in expanded attack. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is also an investment of over EUR 23 million in GIPS and SEPNA, GNR, FEB ( Special Fire Force ) equipment, ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ) and firefighter bodies, which also have a total of 244 new cars. It is highlighted that 79 permanent intervention teams are in place in humanitarian firearms associations and, following the agreement with the Portuguese Firefighters League, 40 new permanent intervention teams will then be set up, which will have more than 300 new firefighters, thereby contributing to the improvement in the provision of aid and job creation. A fire behavior analysis software will be provided to ANPC to support operational decision-making and the geo-reference of operational means will be extended to all firebombs, ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests) and Armed Forces, through the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency Networks and Security of Portugal ). Among other relevant measures for forest protection, fire control and protection of populations are highlighted: the Single Directive on Prevention and Combating, as a way to strengthen synergies between different actors; the review of the Operations Management System; the National Operational Directive and the 2018 Financial Directive, with the strengthening of financial participations; and the integrated National School of Firefighters in the education system. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never done so much before in the area of prevention. Everything the government has done with regard to forest fires meets the proposals of the independent technical committees. The great commitment to prevention by the current government is already a great victory of Portuguese society,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... although responsibilities that have existed in the law since 2006 are at stake. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the major fires in 2017 have led the Assembly and the Government, through the various public administration services, to produce a wide range of legislation and regulatory rules aimed at disaster situations. Given the quantity and dispersion of the legislation, it is justified that the current Government develops a single portal that collects and makes available all information concerning the victims of fire and the affected companies, a portal that should provide for referral, links, to other sources of information, thus facilitating access to their contents, in particular the various CCDRs (Coordination and Development Committee of the Region) and the Revital Fund page. And because, for the most part, the affected population is old and, therefore, with difficulties in accessing digital platforms, it is necessary to create alternative forms, particularly in partnership with the authorities and other local structures, in order to allow all to access this relevant information. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the tragedy, it would be indefensible not to be aware that structural weaknesses exceed governments and regimes and that civic mobilization, for which we are summoned, should divert us from a path of easy political and party use by those who do not have political legitimacy to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u26	I now give the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, to present draft resolutions Nos 1492 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Opening of a new phase of applications for farmers affected by forest fires in October 2017 ( The Greens) and 1493 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Support for family agriculture as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of rural space ( The Greens), thus concluding the presentation of legislative initiatives today in joint debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2017 was, at the level of forest fires, the worst year of memory, and in memory will be the catastrophic consequences caused by them, including the loss of human lives, the damage and damage in thousands of dwellings, the total or partial destruction of hundreds of businesses, the thousands of agricultural holdings affected, in addition to more than 500 000 ha of forest area decimated by flames. Last year's fires have thus caused incalculable social, economic and environmental impacts that will last for a long time if no appropriate measures are taken for the territories affected directly, but also cross-border and national measures that can, in an integrated way, mitigate these impacts and prevent future disasters with this dimension. The time has come, therefore, to discuss measures and to look for those paths that can avoid tragedies like last year. It is precisely for this purpose that the Greens present for discussion a set of resolutions materialized in two legislative initiatives: the first aims to establish a set of measures to support family agriculture as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of the rural area and the second refers to the opening of a new phase of applications for farmers affected by the fires last year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural world is, as you know, a decisive element, particularly when we talk about the prevention of forest fires. Indeed, as it was evident from the fires of last summer, the paradigm and the political options followed by successive governments have to be reversed. De-investment in infrastructure and equipment and closure of public services, associated with reduced or non-existent supply of public transport, has pushed people more and more into urban centres. We are talking about policies that have made a clear contribution to emptying the rural world further, to give it a sentence of abandonment, and thereby exacerbating the fragility of the space where the forest and the forests are inserted, to make it more vulnerable to fires. in fact, the presence of people in the rural world is the guarantor of the management of this territory and the prevention of fires, which have increasingly hit our country as a result of climate change associated with the disorder and abandonment of the territory, as well as the growing and extensive areas of eucalyptus monoculture linked to the interests of cells. Last year's fires showed very clearly that areas occupied by agricultural activities had an important and significant role to prevent their size and consequences from being even greater than those that occurred. It follows that the buffer role of agricultural areas in defence of the forest has been gradually diminished and eliminated, as a result of European Union policy but also the policy of successive governments leading to the stagnation of national agricultural production, to the degradation of agricultural income for the vast majority of farmers, to the loss of 550 000 agricultural workers, to the elimination of some 400 000 agricultural holdings and to greater food dependence from abroad. The abandonment of agricultural and grazing areas, resulting from policies of devaluation of national production, removed territory of intermittent and forest protection and emptied a good dose of forest surveillance capacity that the populations themselves naturally carried out. It is unforgettable that family agriculture, in addition to being the fundamental pillar of our food, is also the basic support of the development of Portuguese society at the economic level, social cohesion, environmental protection, territory and our cultural identity. It happens that, despite the recognition and importance of both survival and development in the rural world, family farming has been forgotten and ignored by national and European policies, therefore facing enormous difficulties. And it is to these difficulties that it is important, now, to give an answer. in this sense, the Greens consider it necessary, in particular: to promote measures to dynamize and revitalize local and regional markets, in order to drive products from family agriculture; to encourage proximity trade; to establish mechanisms that guarantee the flow of family agricultural production at fair prices; to speed up, from a fiscal point of view, direct sales, in order to reduce costs and their bureaucratic process; to restore support for green electricity; and finally to adopt the principle 'produce local, consume local' as a way to develop the rural world. These are some of the proposals or contributions contained in one of the Green Initiatives. Regarding the second Greens legislative initiative, it should be noted that, in the forest fires of October, many farmers lost everything: house, forest and agricultural production, animals, agricultural machinery... They literally lost everything. In order to deal with the damage, two levels of support were then created so that these farmers could restore their activity as much as possible: one, established a simplified scheme covering losses up to €5,000 and the other, under normal compensation scheme, was intended to damage more than €5,000. But in the latter case, a project was required, which was the most complex for most farmers, because it required another type of technical and bureaucratic requirements, as well as financial availability by farmers, since support was not 100 %. In the face of this framework of difficulties and demands, what has happened was that many farmers who had thousands of euros of damage ended up being pushed into the simplified request for support. This is because the technical-bureaucratic and financial requirements necessary for the submission of the application for support for damages of more than € 5000 were indeed high and many farmers did not have the financial capacity to carry out the project, nor did they even have the certainty of their approval. In this context, support is very important, not only because it is due to assist these people, who, in fact, made agriculture their activity and had it as a form of livelihood and who saw their life fully committed to the terror of forest fires, but also because we are talking about the interior areas of the country, which are already quite depopulated and with a need for very large productive dynamics. But these support is also the way of the State to ensure that this productive activity is resumed and that people do not stop being dynamizing agents in a territory that cannot in fact be left out. The Greens therefore consider that there is more basic justice for the reopening of simplified applications, so that those who have not applied now have the possibility of doing or who have applied can correct their candidacy. On the other hand, the Greens also propose that applications be reopened within the framework of the 2020 RDP so that those who have not applied for projects above €5,000 can now do so or for those who have applied to correct it. These are the proposals that the Greens bring for discussion and we hope that they will now have the reception of the other parliamentary benches. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u28	Before we continue the debate, I would like to draw the attention of the Members of all the banks to the fact that the votes are likely to be held clearly before noon today. Therefore, it is good that all Members are advised, since what is on the agenda is that the votes will take place at the end of the debate. In the meantime, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Emília Santos to report on legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u29	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions 1497 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the response of the National Institute of Medical Emergency through the recruitment of professionals in need ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1498 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulates the general information security policy of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). That's all, Mr. President. [[At the moment, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u30	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For many people affected by last year's fires, it is still far from complete compensation for their losses and many, for various bureaucratic and political reasons, were completely out of state aid. There are still some complaints, including those brought with a loud voice here, to the Assembly of the Republic, which range from the lack of generalized information on the applications for short-term support for the submission of aid applications under the RDP and from the lack of adequate support and information from the regional branches of the Ministry and some authorities—maybe because some have difficulties in these matters themselves. For example, in measure 6.2.2 of the RDP, of the restoration of productive potential, many people have not applied for the fear of losing support in future applications, others have not even been explained clearly how and under what conditions they could make the candidatures for immediate support and others there is still that, not living permanently in affected territories, such as migrants, they have not even entered any aid system and we fear that they will remain out of this whole process. in support of post-fire emergency stabilization measures, the ICNF has made a full report presenting the actual intervention needs for the burning area and then the technicians analysing the applications to the PDR 2020 do not follow the guidelines of a State service report and cut investments necessary for erosion control, for stabilization of slopes, etc. etc. Regarding housing, we still have, six months after the tragedy, people living in homes of family or friends, waiting for solution for the recovery of their homes or other suitable housing solutions. Also with regard to the second dwellings, the Government has not said anything about any support for its recovery, leading them to a process of progressive degradation and total definition and causing people to abandon territories where there was some activity, even sometimes occasional or at the end of the week. This framework indicates that the Government cannot, bureaucratically, limit itself to launching support measures, sometimes distorted by the many realities, and above all, can not fail to follow closely its implementation, to identify and solve the bottlenecks that are manifestly still in existence. This requires respect for the victims and for all those populations so abandoned over the decades. That is why the Left Block will follow initiatives presented here to support these people, giving the Government a new opportunity to correct the enormous legislative dispersion here and there that is unfair and, above all, to correct the injustice done to those who, struck by the disaster of fires, have not seen their situation resolved until today and continue to appeal to us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a new fire prevention policy requires profound changes in the planning of rural areas and, in particular, our forest. We can never lose sight of the fact that 93% of the Portuguese forest is private — a number repeated here, but it is never too much to do — being divided by hundreds of thousands of small owners. These small and very small owners, instead of being penalized by the possible economic inability to actively manage their parcels, have to be won, by positive, for the process of transformation that is required,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u33	... because they are also victims and because against the will of hundreds of thousands of very small owners there will never be a rearrangement of the forest. in our understanding, it is priority to support forms of associivism that promote aggregate management, giving rationality to ordering, economic gains for small producers and, in the same step, making the forest more resilient to fires. Forest intervention zones ( FIF ) have already been a step in this direction, but were then abandoned without financial muscle and without support for its operation. It is necessary to look at the forest with long-term prospects and to counter this discharge of responsibility and support from the State. By the way, we welcome the efforts currently being made in the centre and in the north of the country to create an association of ZIF, the ENZIF ( National Federation of Forest Intervention Areas Managers ). That will be a good step in the right direction. On the other hand, forest management units ( UGF ), an expression of a new generation of policies for associivism, already approved in the new legislative framework, require strong incentives, particularly financial incentives. Without such support, its constitution will be impossible. in order to support forest associivism, the CAP (common agricultural policy) instruments must have a profound reorientation. As stressed by the Independent Technical Commission in its last report, on fires in October 2017, in the renegotiation of the new CAP and the reprogramming of the 2020 PDR, measures to finance the joint management of forest areas, especially in mini-fund and high-risk areas of fire, should be included, both in the new CAP and in the reprogramming of the 2020 PDR, in order to finance the defence of forest against fires through the encouragement of activities promoting multifunctional rural space. The programming and management of the PDR 2020 funds for the forest carried out by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS-PP were a disaster and something no one will realize if it is being followed by the Socialist Party in the negotiations for the new Community framework that comes there.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u35	In addition, it is regrettable that the action of the RDP aimed at promoting diversification of activities on the holding at the moment is precisely those with a lower level of achievement. We therefore propose that priority should be given to strengthening support for forest associivism, in particular through financial support for the establishment of forest management units and aid for joint management of forest areas, either as an open possibility in the negotiation of the new CAP either through the reprogramming of the 2020 RDP. That way, yes, we'll be on our way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, structural and lasting changes are necessary in the planning of our territory so that the tragedies of 2017, with such serious consequences, do not happen again. This is the time to do it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u36	And this is also the time to give the floor to Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having held the debate on the report of the Independent Commission on forest fires, it is also now Parliament's time to discuss the proposals which the parliamentary groups wanted to present as their initiatives, as their ideas, and to implement some of those which are in these independent reports and which the Government has not taken out of the role. But it is also the time to remember and confirm that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration last week, in this same room, guaranteed that everything was ready, said that the single directive was approved and called some Members ignorant by saying that the financial directive had been published, trying to confuse people with the operational directive. He was asked when the operational directive would be ready and the Minister tried to deceive this House! Then he arrived at Pedrogão on Sunday, and there he confirmed that the operational directive would be passed soon—he confessed to his first fake news—and also said that it would be the first time in our history that we would approve this directive so early. I remind the Socialist Party that in 2013 it was approved on 14 March; in 2014 it was on 26 March; in 2015 it was on 30 March; in 2016 it was on 17 March; and in 2017 it was on 31 March. We are almost a month from the time of fire, we are in mid-April, and no one knows what operational means will be available, what operational means the councils will have available, which firefighters will give up to the ANPC, because the government has delayed work. [[PSD applause.]] And, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, together with Mr Minister of Internal Administration, instead of both of being in this debate to face the government, to give their views on these proposals, after almost a year without putting their feet on the National Civil Protection Authority, Mr Prime Minister, in a theatre and propaganda maneuver, summons all district commanders for the same time as we are doing this debate to discuss with you and present the device.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u38	It's true! I should be here!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u39	This is propaganda! Mr. Prime Minister was supposed to be here and he should have gone to Pedragon before, following the tragedies. I should ask the Minister of Internal Administration why everything is so late once again. That is why, Mr President, it must be mentioned here that the operational media directive, which says how many cars and how many men will be available, should already be on the ground. It is on the basis of it that the municipal chambers prepare their forest protection plans, but the government tries to tell people that everything is approved when, in fact, it is chaos. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] I remember the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party who last year, for this time, the Government was engaged with the Socialist Party to change regional commanders and district commanders, to appoint boys from the socialist apparatus—that is what the committees say. It was by this time, on top of the fire season. But, Mr President, the PSD brings two very concrete proposals, which are not on the left and are not on the right, are useful proposals, which have to do with the mechanisms for supporting the decision, which the Government, until the PSD has presented these proposals, has never mentioned them and, above all, there are examples in the country. It is enough for the Government to ensure that the Armed Forces can transfer these equipment to firefighters, because 96% of the firefighting force are firefighters, they are elements of Civil Protection and they are the only ones who do not have these tools that have so much cost the public record. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention what is being done with GNR. The government announced that it would bet on 400 new GNR elements to fight fire. The government wanted an equivalent number of vacancies to ensure that this cannibalization has no impact on the ground. The truth is, Mr President, that not only have there been people who have reformed themselves and the government cannot say how many are, as all the reports say above, that in the low-density territories, as you well know, there is a lack of GNR people. There are councils that do not have a GNR patrol at the end of the week and we all know — that is what reports say — that the Pedrogan tragedy also had many repercussions because there are not enough people to close traffic and protect people. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go to another time of fires in which the means are used in a case-by-case and voluntary manner. That is why the PSD proposes something very concrete: that the government should draw it up and put into practice a plan for the use of tracking machines, which are often used in some municipalities, in some regions. But there is no characterization, there is no formation, the Armed Forces themselves have no training to do this, they do not act at night, while the others act day and night. That is why the Government should create these scholarships, look at these proposals as an incentive and, if this has already been worth ensuring that the government will do so, we are very happy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is in this fight to ensure that this year will be better than last year. We do not want the government to run badly. We all want what happened last year never to happen again, and that is why they always count on reporting mistakes, our proposals and our solidarity to make good reforms. They'll never count on us just for propaganda! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u40	Mr Santinho Pacheco, from the PS, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, we recognize, is a party of the land, and from there our surprise with this bill no. 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), presented here. A national awareness-raising campaign on fuel management obligations around housing and population agglomerations was carried out, and continues to be carried out, to provide security for populations and to create safe villages networks. There had been specific legislation on this subject since 2006 that no one would meet or enforce. The State Budget Act only underlined the obligation to comply with the law in these areas of civil protection. There was some artificial burb, but there were results: prevention won inertia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u43	from then that draft law No 776 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) the CFP, which aims to repeal three rules included in the State budget on forest fire protection, namely the question of the supplementary intervention of municipalities in cleaning fuel strips in secondary networks in the face of unknown, absent or negligent owners, seems to us now unobstructed and out of date, giving a wrong signal to the country, which has mobilized itself as a community — authorities, citizens, owners — in an effort to clean up and prevent ever seen. No one would now understand this legislative retreat to exclude the local authorities from this collective effort to defend the territory and people against the murders.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u45	Back then, by this time of the « let go», we already know the costs and the consequences and we are sure that that is not what the CFP wants. The rural world is what it is and has to be defended. Also Bill No. 812 / XIII ( 3. a ), of the CFP, is based on the assumption that the realisation of fuel management bands imposes costs on the holding that call into question the maintenance of forest activity and leads to loss of income, with this initiative, it is intended to revise the criteria to be applied in the creation of secondary fuel management bands. But it's not like that! The current legislation already stipulates that the secondary ranges provided for in the municipal fire forest defence plans, on a proposal from the municipal chambers, may be declared public utility. The aim is not, nor has it ever been, to impose income losses or the abandonment of forest plots, but, rather, to contribute to an orderly forest, more fire-resistant, particularly where there is more threat to people and goods. Finally, a word on draft resolution No 1482/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) the PSD, which recommends that the Government promote an adaptation of forest defense against fires, an extraordinary intervention since this system has aggravated the gap between legislation and territory. It is necessary — it says — a structural review of forest defense against fires. The ITC, which the PSD invokes, speaks in international practices, the PSD appeals to national reality. in this House, with regard to forest fires, there is a sort of bipolar PSD: defend everything and its opposite, with the illusion that it can always win, it goes well in all circumstances. As it is said in my land, it is “one on the pope, another on the feast”. Note in the smallest details. The PSD criticized and caricatured the landfilling journey made by the government and two days later, made a weak imitation of Dr. Rui Rio and everything. A week ago, he proclaimed here that there would be no fires in 2018 because he had already set everything on fire in 2017. It was my dear fellow, Mr Peixoto, who said so. Today, come to show your alarmism and your concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u46	It's a lie! He didn't say anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u47	I have once called on the strategy of the furon strategy of PSD: look everywhere to see if something goes out of there to attack the government on civil protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Victims, fires, interior and rural world demand a sense of state, political seriousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u49	...and that's very true! Can the country take the PSD seriously? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u50	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Santinho Pacheco, referred to an initiative by the CFP Parliamentary Group which effectively repeals three surgical provisions from the rules of the State budget. As you know, the CFP Parliamentary Group has been pioneer and quite determined to defend forest management and structural prevention measures in our forest, so it is important to clarify what the CFP proposes and to make it a challenge. The three rules we have repealed from the State budget relate, first, to a process which affects people; secondly, to a process which affects the authorities, who do not have the means to impose the State budget; and thirdly, we have revoked the rule which eliminates 20 % of the funds allocated to municipalities in the event of non-compliance. The question I would like to ask you is whether the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the reforms needed by the forest, the measures necessary from the point of view of structural prevention are at the expense of blackmail and the imposition of financial cuts on the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u53	... or they are all involved in this project that must be effectively implemented. And we have no problem in assuming that, with regard to forest management and forest cleaning, much has been done, more than what is done, for example, in the context of civil protection, which we will have the opportunity to mention in our intervention. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u54	To reply, Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u55	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Machado, is not part of the political practice of the Socialist Party blackmailing whoever it is, much less the authorities and populations. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] What we have is a fact reality. From 2006 until now, there was legislation that no one would comply with... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and came to the situation in which we arrived in 2007 because of this inertia by all — state, authorities, populations, owners. Trying that there will be a rebate of consciousness in all the agents who, in the territory, have the responsibility to respond to this reality will never be blackmail.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u56	Everybody's guilty less the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u57	It is, first, an appeal to everyone's awareness that the rural world defends itself with those who are in the rural world. That is simply what the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party want to do with their work on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today, here, a set of 24 forest initiatives resulting from fires, especially last year. Mrs. Members, since 2016 there have been at least four or five legislative amendments, since the forest reform, which was completed in August 2017, especially the amendment with regard to the protection of the forest against fires.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is no longer to speak in the e-mail that the Tax Authority has sent to the entire population, even to those who did not have any forest property and to whom the e-mail was not sent, which has raised immense doubts. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, today the CDS has chosen to make a presentation of surgical proposals, focused because we believe that forest and forest producers need stability. We are virtually at the beginning of another critical period of fires and there can be no changes on the surface of changes when people finally can stabilize because there are many changes that are wrong. In fact, already today Mrs Lúcia Silva had the opportunity to say that the Government incorporated the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, which established a coherent, affirmative strategy for the reform of the prevention and combat system. when reading this information and listening to these statements, I wonder where Eng.o Tiago Oliveira was. In fact, he should be very busy setting up AGIF (Integrated Rural Fire Management Agency ) and was therefore not consulted on Decree-Law No 10 / 2018, an initiative that had the challenge and criticism of the entire scientific community. For example, it makes no sense the space of 10 m between each tree. Where were the experts? This was certainly not recommended by the Independent Technical Commission. Therefore, the fact that the government is legislating does not mean that it reads well. In other words, a lot of legislation certainly does not mean good legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u61	This legislative information panel, this dispersion, which is almost a legislative labyrinth, has led the CDS to present a draft resolution, which recommends the Government to compile, on an electronic portal, all information on forest legislation. I use to say that the CDS made this proposal to the Secretary of State for Forests on January 17, on the same day that the PCP also presented its project. I welcome the PS for joining this proposal on 28 March. however, Mr. Members, two and a half months after the presentation of the Government's proposal to compile all forest information on a portal, the Government has done absolutely nothing, people do not know where to consult the information. Finally, the PS came to join the CDS to recommend that a portal be made. We hope that you will do so now and that the government will, on the basis of this initiative, read out and compile in a portal all the information on forests. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u62	I wanted to leave a final note on some initiatives. In view of what I have already said about legislative dispersion, in particular the proposed amendments to Decree-Law No 124/2006 which the CFP here proposes, although they make sense, it seems to us that we should have some stability and think of reforming the whole system — in fact, as the PSD proposes — at the end of the fire campaign so that, finally, there can be some stability in relation to the measures that forest producers have, because the forest deserves peace, it deserves stability, so that producers have some profitability of their forest and can finally act as they ought to be. I take this opportunity to regret that all the proposals presented by the CDS here concern the tax benefits for forest producers or the deductions to the collection that small owners could have as a benefit, as an incentive, in order to clean their forests have been systematically plunged into this House by the parties on the left — PCP, Block Left, The Greens and also by the PS. It was an excellent opportunity to give effective support to the small owners of the center and north of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u63	It is now time for Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dramatic reality that we live with the fires of summer and autumn 2017 requires the reflection, weighting and adoption of concrete measures that improve our civil protection system. However, we cannot fail to remember that the current conceptual and legal model of the civil protection system was consecrated in 2007 after the tragic fires of 2003 and 2005, and today, having spent more than 10 years without any interim evaluation of the system, we are intended to discuss a new change in the conceptual model. We do not run into discussion and therefore we present a legislative initiative, but we cannot fail to mention that the discussion about the civil protection we have and the civil protection we want for our country cannot be hostage to media calendars nor can it be discussed on the margins of civil protection agents. Thus, any change in the concept model of civil protection cannot fail to listen to the main civil protection agents in our country, who are firefighters, and cannot and should not be applied at the most critical time of fires. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of not only the reports submitted after the tragic fires of 2017, but also the opinions collected in the hearings we promote, the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that there is a profound change in the civil protection model and therefore we present a draft resolution with 20 measures for a new civil protection policy. The first and, perhaps, the most important measure is that the restructuring of the civil protection model must be effectively involved and take into account the views of all civil protection agents and the general population through a public debate. Any change in the model made in cabinets without the contribution and appreciation of Portuguese firefighters is the way to disaster. Civil protection shall be considered as an integral part of the different planning and planning instruments of the territory. The civil protection system, its structure and agents, must be equipped with sufficient resources and resources, technical, financial and human resources for the missions they perform. It is necessary to draw up strict risk letters in conjunction with higher education institutions and, on the basis of them, to define needs and means to be allocated. It is urgently necessary to strengthen the financing of municipal chambers and to review the law on the financing of firefighters. It is urgent to improve the socio-professional conditions of Portuguese firefighters. Finally, among other measures, it is urgent to include civil protection matters in school curricula and to promote training, information and awareness-raising actions in the field of self-protection against risks. The tragedies we live in and the risks we run require a high-level civil protection system capable of responding throughout the national territory. The CFP makes its contribution with this draft resolution and will not fail to intervene with the awareness that it is important to hear who daily builds civil protection in our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These are fundamental measures that need to be discussed and we are aware that many of them must be weighed down and their implementation takes time. Having said this, it is also important to look at the most immediate plan and from here we are concerned not only about delays in monitoring the measures, but also about delays in preparing civil protection for the most critical time of fires. Delays in the implementation of permanent teams, delays in the definition of operational directives, problems in SIRESP communications, which delay its resolution, delays in public procurement of air resources, are some of the data we have been collecting. So, and since today, in terms of civil protection, we are worse than we were last year, the CFP Parliamentary Group announces that today we deliver in 1. the Commission requires the Minister of Internal Administration and the President of ANPC to address the preparation of the means for the most critical phase of fire, which is approaching. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards the latest interventions, in accordance with the indications regarding the priority of the interventions presented and also with regard to the registrations of the parliamentary groups. Mr Maurício Marques, from the PSD, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate it is clear that the government has failed on the whole line on fires. The tragedy was no greater given the courage of our firemen. Today, it is not just the PSD claiming that the government has failed. The 24 initiatives under discussion are evidence of the government's incompetence in combating and supporting victims. The initiatives of the parties supporting this Government, including the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, when they make recommendations to the Government, are proof that the Government continues to fail. The response that the Government has to offer to the victims and the Portuguese population is a never seen propaganda manoeuvre, attempting to forget their responsibilities in the fight against fires. After the total failure in the fight, which has been widely demonstrated in the various reports we know, the response comes to the victims, and there the government continues to fail. It is not understood and it is not accepted that Portuguese are treated differently. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u67	The victims of the fires of Pedrogan have a kind of support, say, because of the generosity of the Portuguese. The victims of the fires that occurred in July, August, September and especially on 15 and 16 October have a completely different support. But the victims also have different support by sector of activity, being the weakest or most disadvantaged, the small farmers, those who, by this government, have less support in the tragedy they have suffered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u69	See cases of small cheese shops in the area of Serra cheese. If its owner had as its main activity the industry is granted 85 % support to restore its activity, but, in the case of a small shepherd, a small farmer, who had associated with his flock a artisanal cheesery, the support which the Government devotes to him is at most 65 % and often less than 50 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all the parties that support the government: let them stop talking and force the Minister of Agriculture to open a new phase of applications to support these small farmers, because they are the most damaged by the incompetence of the current government. [[PSD applause.]] I can't help but make a reference to the intervention here made by my friend Santinho Pacheco. Mr. Deputy, you were the last civilian governor in the Guard District. He had maximum responsibilities in this area and comes here today to say that he did not and did not even enforce an obligation that was his, which was the fulfilment of Decree-Law No 124 / 2006. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u71	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a fact that in this debate, if we do not understand what happened last year in the field of forest fires, we will never succeed in solutions. It is good that this House is beginning to create a consensus around an important idea to start doing this assessment. In fact, none of the previous governments have taken the necessary structural measures, they have all failed, and that is the main reason why we are living in the situation we were living last year. It was more than 20 years after the unanimous approval of the Forest Basics Law in this House of the Republic and nothing was done by the previous governments. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to share responsibilities according to the time that each of us has had in the government, and this is an excuse for the bad payer. What is crucial is that actions have been or have not been taken on this matter and on this it must be clear that the right has 100 % responsibility for the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, the surrender of the forest to the interests of the celluloses, the blocking of the financing of the ZIFs, the reduction of support for the forest slags, and so on. This is the responsibility you have and it is not worth being laid down now, because that is indeed an excuse for bad payers. That is also why the right refuses to speak in the forest, that is why he does not speak in abandonment of small forest producers and of the forest, that is why he does not want to talk about what is happening with the interior territories and rural territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also say that this is the main reason why the right here only wants to talk about firefighters and nothing more. It must be said that it is very important to have all the means necessary to deal with all the eventualities in the next fire season in Portugal. It is essential — and the Government must have this absolute responsibility — that the Government must have, in an operational way, all means, be air, be land, be human, be technical, be fully available and operational...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u73	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u74	...to face the situation that we will certainly have in the next few days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u76	I conclude now, Mr President. In fact, meteorology tells us that next summer's situation will be very difficult with the growth of organic matter, especially in the forest undercover. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not lay down responsibilities either in relation to structural combat and prevention, nor in relation to the availability of operational means to combat fires. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u77	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now that we are at the conclusion of the debate, the CFP Parliamentary Group would like to highlight some aspects that are fundamental. It is obvious that we have left for this debate with the awareness that we do not have the gift of all truth, and not all the legislative initiatives we have discussed are ours. There are worthy initiatives that will deserve our favourable vote, either from the PSD bench, or from the CDS bench, or from the Socialist Party bench. however, there are initiatives with which we cannot agree, in particular those relating to the revisions of the criminal framework, changes in the autonomy and independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the definition of the criminal investigation policy in our country and those which have underlying mistrust with firearm corporations. Having said this, we understand that there are legislative initiatives in which there can be consensus and uniformization, as well as the appreciation of those presented by the CFP and which, from the outset, go through measures related to the fuel management ranges, compensation for the different affected actors and the improvement of these mechanisms of dynamism, the need to disseminate information, the defense of the rural world and a new policy of civil protection for our country. at this stage of the debate, the CFP stresses the urgent need for more immediate action, and it is therefore essential not only to conduct a hearing by the Minister to discuss the preparation of the fire season approaching broad passes, as it is fundamental to a hearing by the respective ministers to monitor the measures that are adopted in successive diplomas. It is necessary to monitor and monitor the government as to what is being implemented, whether as regards civil protection or as regards structural and operational prevention measures. It is in this sense that the CFP Parliamentary Group will intervene. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u79	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the final stage of this debate, I would like to say, on behalf of the CDS, that this issue of fires, which we have already discussed several times, has, of course, a part that is linked to prevention, another that is linked to justice and repair and one that is linked to combat. None of them can — and I stress 'can' — or must be forgotten in some circumstances. The idea at the end of this debate is that what happened last year is clear, it is studied, there are reports, responsibilities have been established and what is happening this year — or, better, what is not yet happening — is, of course, the basis of clear concern. In this regard, we have clearly noted that there are three approaches: the approach of the Government and the Socialist Party, which want to talk about prevention, which want to talk about propaganda—such as the Prime Minister, using 6 minutes and 47 seconds in a forest cleaning action, and the Minister of Internal Administration, who say that they are working on prevention and that what matters is prevention and nothing else; there is the approach, which we still hear, of those who want to talk about everything behind, of the last 30 years, and that, within the limits, what is always important is to do an exercise of ideological fascism to say that the blame is on the right and to take no responsibility, nor to solve anything; finally, there is the approach that we consider to be the most serious, that it is the constructive attitude of those who want to make proposals, of those who read the reports, of those who think that the reports were worth the penalty and that, from them, much can be done. As has been said here, and it is true, Mr Minister of Internal Administration once again sought to deceive us, he did not answer anything, he did not answer the questions about the air and the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal), did not answer the question of the operational directive, but then he wanted to give the idea that everything would be dealt with. But I will not even refer to this - I will refer to it - yes - and I will draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Members — the Minister's recent statements. Three or four days ago, the Minister of Internal Administration, visiting Pedrogão, said — and I quote — the following: « It is not worth reporting, nor is it worth discussing laws ». I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the parties who support the government, Mr Minister, think that what we are all doing today is useless, because for him it is not worth reading the reports and it is not worth making laws either. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is absolutely unacceptable and it is more a demonstration of the one who has been a permanent exercise of incapacity and incompetence. This government and this particular minister have a few tips of what in the past became known as'socratism', i.e. arrive here and say that everything is done, that there are air resources and that there is operational directive and then out there they say it is not so. Usually, the truth gets lost somewhere. In fact, the government has a problem with the truth. Mrs. Members, the CDS has read the report, from which it can be clearly stated that there should be a mission unit to resolve the issue of firefighters, to deal with the grid, to deal with the organisation and command, to deal with careers, to deal with the financing. The report by the Independent Technical Commission — the creation of this Commission was, in fact, an initiative of the Assembly, more specifically the PSD, then joining other parties and, even the CDS — it is very clear that there must be a mission unit. And that is the proposal we make. The vote on the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members will say if they want a mission unit, if they want another report, if they want to respect what is in the report, if they think there is no need to do anything — this has been the position of the government, which gives us the idea that either we are lucky with time or incompetence can again be fatal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. We shall enter the voting period. [[Pause.]] Before we proceed to the quorum check, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report the case file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u82	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1499 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Construction of road linkage on a motorway profile between Viseu and Coimbra, ensuring a non-portable solution ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1500 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Urgent retraining of the Ferreira Dias High School in Agualva-Sintra(The Greens) ; and 1501 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the advance of benefits due to vocational schools where there is delay in the financing of the Operational Capital Human ( POCH ) Programme ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u83	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, will not be able to register electronically, will have to signal their presence at the Bureau and then make their presence. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 200 presences, to which 6 are added — those of the Members. Members Paula Santos, PCP, Carla Sousa and Ferro Rodrigues, PS, Ricardo Baptista Leite and Sandra Pereira, PSD, and Álvaro Castello-Branco, CDS-PP, performing 206 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 519 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Of regret and solidarity for the victims of the fall of a military plane in Algeria ( PSD, CDS-PP, PSD and PCP ), which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u84	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "on April 11, we witnessed one of the most deadly aviation accidents of all time. A military plane crashed at the Algerian airport in Boufarik for still unknown causes, leaving the world in shock and dismay for over 250 confirmed fatal victims. The Algerian Government decreed three days of national mourning and ordered the initiation of an investigation to understand the exact circumstances that would have led to the accident. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep sorrow for the victims of this accident, expresses its deep condolences to the families and their solidarity with Algeria. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, vote 524 / XIII is followed ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning and weighing for 15 years of the aggression against Iraq submitted by the CFP. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It has been 15 years since American invading troops occupied Baghdad. The 2003 invasion was a war of aggression that openly violated international law and the UN Charter and disregarded all its mechanisms. It was a war based on a gigantic operation of lies and false ‘ information from the secret services ’ of the invading powers. It was a war in which the Portuguese Government, PSD / CDS, since then headquartered by Durão Barroso, involved our country, particularly by hosting the Lajes war summit with Bush, Blair and Aznar. After 15 years, the balance of aggression against Iraq is tragic. The devastation caused by more than a decade of deadly sanctions has added to the destruction caused by the war, with many thousands of deaths, the chaos caused and encouraged by the occupying forces, the looting of the country's economic and cultural resources and millions of refugees and displaced persons. A scenario, unfortunately, repeated in other countries that are the target of the US and other NATO powers. In 2016, a British official report ( Chilcot Report) revealed that ‘the information indicating the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was false’, accusing the British Government of ‘ opting for the military solution before exhausting all other ways of resolution of the conflict’ and confirming that ‘all warnings that were given about the instability that could follow an invasion without any exit plan’ were ignored. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the involvement of Portugal in the aggression against Iraq in 2003, expresses its sorrow for the thousands of victims of this war of aggression and urges the Portuguese Government not to involve Portugal in wars of aggression to other countries, in respect of the Constitution of the Republic, the Charter of the United Nations and international law. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 518 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Praised for the commemoration of 50. the anniversary of the death of Martin Luther King Jr., presented by PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, expressing praise for the commemoration of death is quite strange, but you realize the idea. The title of this vote may become more understandable when reading. You have the floor, to read this vote, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last April 4th was celebrated on 50th. the anniversary of the tragic death of Martin Luther King Jr., murdered on the balcony in front of his room, at a motel in Memphis, Tennessee, where he had gone to support the strike movement of the city's lighthouses. Born in 1929, it is primarily known for its fight in defense of the civil rights of African Americans, which later extended to the movements against the Vietnam War. Unfortunately, it remains still very relevant today, perhaps even more than in 1963, his extraordinary discourse on the stairs of the Capitol in Washington, known for the phrase that became famous ‘ I have a dream ’, which culminated in a march on Washington that brought together more than 250,000 people and whose images circulated all over the world, I dream that has inspired successive generations of citizens of all nationalities and ethnicities. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964 and is in history as someone who fought for the right to full citizenship, without any kind of discrimination, that which remains real in the United States of America and in many other countries. His voice, like that of Nelson Mandela, continues to motivate and encourage citizens and citizens who continue to fight for human rights that they have not yet access to. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic signed on 50. Martin Luther King Jr.'s death anniversary, praising his nonviolent action for the fundamental rights of all, against discrimination and for peace and recalling his example and his message. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u90	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 520 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the use of chemical weapons in the Syrian conflict against defenceless civilian populations, presented by Members and Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities, to be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u91	Mr. President and Mr. Member, the vote shall be as follows: « on last Sunday the world was again confronted with the lamentable news of a barbaric attack against defenseless populations in Syria, this done in the area of Duma, having been used chemical weapons, according to credible testimony from several international organizations. This attack, which has resulted in dozens of deaths and injuries, constitutes a serious attack on human rights in armed conflicts and a crime against civilians, violating successive agreements and conventions that have long been widely regarded by the international community as a fundamental acquisition of humanitarian law. Thus, it is absolutely imperative to take responsibility for all situations such as this in Syria can be considered crimes against the human person, and all efforts must be made by the United Nations and the powers directly or indirectly involved in this conflict to determine and judge those guilty of such repugnant crimes. The Assembly of the Republic therefore strongly condemns the escalation of the conflict and the repeated use of chemical weapons in Duma, Syria, last Sunday, 8 April, demanding full clearance of responsibilities through actions under the aegis of the United Nations, in particular by its Security Council ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u92	Mrs. Members, let us vote 520 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 522 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the current escalation of threats against Syria by the CFP, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u93	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « For 7 years now, a destabilization and aggression operation has been carried out against Syria and its people, which, like the wars of aggression against Iraq or Libya, has been based on pretexts based on accusations and facts without grounds or evidence. The current threats of escalating aggression against Syria, promoted by the United States, France and the United Kingdom, supported by an alleged and unproven use of chemical weapons, whose responsibility the Syrian authorities reject, are of the greatest gravity and, in reality, they end up unpredictable but certainly disastrous consequences. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, urges the Portuguese Government not to involve Portugal, by any means, in the aggression against Syria, in respect of the Constitution of the Republic, the Charter of the United Nations and international law. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u95	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u96	To what effect, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u97	Mr President, although we voted in favour of the last two votes, we have a few differences in the recitals and we will therefore present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u98	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 523 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning for the escalation of war in Syria, presented by BE, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u99	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Victim of Bashar Al-Assad's dictatorship and military strategies of foreign powers, the Syrian people have been decimated and see their country destroyed for more than half a decade of brutal war. The recent massacres in Syria, this time in the city of Douma, in which men, women and children fight for their lives, their relatives, or in which they themselves lie dead, alert to the persistent atrocities in that region. All those who strive for the primacy of peace and compliance with international law and human rights are called upon to strongly denounce the strategies of the powers, whatever they are, that are no more than aggression to the people of Syria. No normalization of violence and barbarity is acceptable. The recent past shows that the arms policies and expansion of the military-industrial complex lead to wartime precipitation and its path of death and misery. The arms escalation of the last few weeks, combined with the convening of ‘war cabinets’ in large-powered chancellaries and inflamed by verbal confrontations between various actors, is the expression of unqualified irresponsibility and may be prelude to an extension of the conflict on a new scale. The choice for allegedly punitive military interventions has recent historical precedents — from Afghanistan to Iraq and Libya — with disastrous consequences. This balance sheet should discourage any repetition of this policy in the Syrian case and in any other case. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the continuing violation of human rights in Syria ; condemns the announcements of further military intervention by foreign powers; calls on the Government of Portugal to reject the bellicist and fist for a peaceful solution of political negotiation; calls for the peaceful resolution of the conflict within the framework of international law, guaranteeing the Syrian people the free and democratic choice of their future. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, with votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, and the Greens' abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 521 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Greetings and recognition for the ceremonies of the Centenary of the Battle of La Lys, in memory of the Portuguese soldiers who fought in the First Great War, presented by Members and Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities. You have the floor, to proceed with the reading of the vote, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u101	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on the 8th and 9th April there were held in Paris, next to the Arc do Triomphe, at the Portuguese Military Cemetery of Richebourg, in the monument to the dead in La Couture and in Arras, the evocative ceremonies of the centenary of the Battle of La Lys, where troops of the Portuguese Expeditionary Corps participated. These ceremonies were officially represented at the highest level with the President of the Republic of Portugal, the Prime Minister, government members, committee chairs, Members and military authorities of the two countries. in the ceremonies also participated the President of the Republic of France, Emmanuel Macron, who publicly exalted the value of the Portuguese troops and remembered ‘the deep and solid friendship’ that unites the two countries. The battle of La Lys, therefore, has a very particular meaning for brave resistance and in great inferiority of forces in the face of the advance of the German troops. The high number of Portuguese soldiers, about 7000, killed, wounded and captured within a few hours, despite the fact that they have already accused the fatigue of a cruel and bloody war and a difficult life in the trenches subject to the effects of the chemical war, have always, with bravery and self-denial, of trying to prevent the advance of the German troops. The memory of the Portuguese participation in the First Great War and the Battle of La Lys has been kept alive throughout the years at local ceremonies, with the strong mobilization of Portuguese citizens, the residents of France, and with the contribution of the League of Combatants and the authorities of the two countries themselves, who deserve fair praise and recognition. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the holding of the ceremonies of the Centenary of the Battle of La Lys, with such a high institutional representation, in a fair and worthy recognition of the sacrifice of the Portuguese soldiers who fought in the First Great War, whose greatness of effort and suffering must be well present in the collective memory of Portugal and France, honoring their memory, their families and their homelands».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u103	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u104	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u105	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the vote that has now taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u106	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u107	Yes, Mr. President. The Parliamentary bench of the Left Block will also present a declaration of vote on vote No 521 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u108	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 18 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Fourth amendment to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ) ( President of the HR ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1469 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the United States of America ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1254 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government compile and make available all legislative production for the 2017 forest fires at the electronic portals of the Government and Public Administration and take the necessary measures to convey information to citizens in their territories ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to draft resolution No 1399 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open a new period of applications for action 6.2.2 of PDR 2020 so that farmers affected by the October fires that did not apply can do so ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1444 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a mission unit for the structural reorganization of the operational fire department ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP and PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 654 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the criminal framework for forest fire crime ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the NAP and with abstentions from BE and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 656 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes the forest fire crime in the list of priority research crimes ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 672 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the integration of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and creates an animal rescue and rescue team ( NAP). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CFP, votes in favour of BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1445 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government replace the current Fire Risk Forecast Index ( CRM) in the Fire Management Mechanisms ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the BE and the NAP and the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 776 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Exceptional arrangements for secondary fuel management bands ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against BE and the CDS-PP.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 812 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes criteria for compensation for the implementation of administrative services for the creation of fuel management bands and determines the responsibility for their implementation and maintenance by amending Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CFP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against BE and the CDS-PP.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1247 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create, make available and maintain an electronic portal where information related to the responses created following the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ) is disclosed. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1466/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reopening of applications to support victims of the 2017 forest fires, the establishment of an appropriate timetable for payment of support and the clarification and extension of the criteria used for supporting purposes ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1447 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to support family farming as a structural option for the defence and development of the rural world, in particular in areas affected by fires ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1488/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — For a new civil protection policy ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Criminal Policy Framework Act and to the law defining the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, considering the crime of forest fire as a crime of priority research ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the PS abstention.]] Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u109	Mr President, it is in order to announce to the House that, with regard to this vote and the following, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u110	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1489 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assign priorities in the transformation of forests for better fire protection ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and BE and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1490 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that firefighters entitled to remuneration under the DECIF receive these amounts directly ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of BE and the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 820 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. Mr. João Dias asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u111	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u112	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1474 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen information systems to support operational decision-making in combating forest fires ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1478 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the use of tracking machines in the fight against forest fires ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1482/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an adaptation of forest fire protection ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1463 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government disseminate information on fire response and other information access mechanisms ( PS ) through a specific website for this purpose. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to be promoted within the framework of the forest fire prevention and control system ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1492/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Opening of a new phase of applications for farmers affected by forest fires in October 2017 ( The Greens ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS and the NAP.]] The following is draft resolution No 1493/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Support for family agriculture as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of the rural area ( The Greens ), for which the PS requested the breakdown of the vote in three parts : first, points 4, 5, 9 and 12, then point 6 and finally points 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13. So let us start by voting points 4, 5, 9 and 12. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The remaining points are then voted on, i.e. points 1 to 3, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens and CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u113	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u114	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u115	Mr President, we have just adopted eight draft resolutions which should be condensed into three resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, with regard to all these votes that we have just made on the fires, we wanted to propose that draft resolutions 1474 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1488 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) constituted a single resolution, which paragraphs 1254 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), 1247 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1463 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) constituted another, and that paragraphs 1399 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1446 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1492 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) yet another resolution, subject to eight resolutions on agreed issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u116	As you know, Mr, it is not in the plenary that these issues are being discussed, they will have to be discussed in their committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u117	Mr. President, how are draft resolutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u118	It is a proposal that remains the first proposal for this committee's work. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1367 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a national campaign for the sterilization of pet animals ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1410/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government affect money for the public promotion of sterilization of animals ( BE ) for which the PS also called for the empowerment of the vote on points 1 and 2. So we started by voting on point 1 of that motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1433 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government not authorise the placing on the market of the veterinary medicinal product dicyclofenac ( PAN). [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, Greens and PAN and PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP abstentions.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1244 / / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the immediate start of repair work at the Alpendorada Secondary School, in the Town Hall of Marco de Canaveses ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1315/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake immediate work at the Alpendorada High School in Marco de Canaveses ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u119	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u120	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u121	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last two votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u122	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1370 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Still within the framework of the Vallis Longus Basic School, it matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u124	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u125	Mr President, he proposed that we vote together on the next four motions for resolutions on the vote script, because I assume that the votes will be the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u126	It seems rational to me, Mr. Deputies. If everyone agrees, then we will vote together on draft resolutions 1424 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan for the urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( CDS-PP ), 1465 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( The Greens), 1466 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( PCP ), and 1470 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the urgent requalification of the Vallis Longus Basic School in Valongo ( PSD ). [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for them. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u127	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u128	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u129	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the last draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u130	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1015 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Replacement of the river beach in Sejães ( Oliveira de Frades ), destroyed by the hydroelectric use Ribeiradio-Ermida ( The Greens ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1454 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take steps to ensure the immediate suspension of shipments to the Trust Towers in Santo António dos Cavalieros ( Loures ), and the guarantee of the right to housing ( PCP ) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1133/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Availability by the National Centre for Pensions Discriminating from the Pension with an indication of the values which compose it, on a date prior to the date of receipt ( BE ), the initial text of which was replaced at the request of the author. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1404 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide detailed information to pensioners and pensioners on the values of their pensions and reforms ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote, in general, on the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person and the projects of lein. 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recognizes the right to gender self-determination ( BE) and 317 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to gender self-determination ( PAN) and the authors withdraw their initiatives in favour of that text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]] I ask the public to be in the galleries watching our work not to manifest themselves. Mrs. Members, we now have an application by the PS, the BE, the Greens and the PAN for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Articles 10. o and 21. the proposal of Law No 75 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) as proposals for addition to the replacement text. Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Having approved the request, we shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, BE, The Greens and the NAP to add to the text of the replacement of Article 10. o ( Requirement) of Bill No. 75 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the PCP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: The procedure for changing the term of sex in the civil register and the consequent change of proper name shall commence by application lodged in any conservatory of the civil register, with the indication of its civil identification number and of the proper name by which the person intends to be identified, and may from that time be requested to hold a new birth seat, in which no mention may be made of the change of registration.]] [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u131	We shall also vote on the proposal presented by the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP to add to the text of the replacement of Article 21. the ( Revoking Standard) of Bill No 75 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Teresa Leal Coelho, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the PCP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Law No 7/2011 of 15 March is repealed, with the exception of Article 5.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u132	Mrs. Members, also in the context of this replacement text, will proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the same replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and projects of lein.o 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 317 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of the PSD Teresa Leal Coelho, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the PCP abstention.]] [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the Greens and the public present in the galleries.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen present in the galleries not to manifest themselves. Whatever the results, there should be no demonstrations in the galleries. Mrs. Members, it is also important to appreciate and vote on a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will report to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u133	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u134	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u135	Mr President, I just want to announce that, with regard to the last vote, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u136	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Silva has the floor, I suppose for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u137	Mr President, on this vote, I would like to make an oral statement at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u138	Of course, Mr. Deputy, it is recorded. Mrs. Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u139	Mr President, I also want to make an oral vote on this vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u140	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u141	Mr President, I also want to make an oral vote at the end of the vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u142	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u143	Mr President, I also wish to make an oral vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u144	It is registered, Mrs. Member, and I use it to remember that each bench will have 2 minutes to do so. I insist again on the people who are in the galleries, on watching our work, so that they do not manifest themselves, even when they are in agreement with Parliament's decisions or when they are in disagreement. Mr Pacheco will report on a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u145	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees, which refers to the waiver of the mandate, have given the Bureau an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedom and Guarantees, in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Anne Virginia Pereira ( PCP ), an electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by Mrs Angela Manuela de Sousa Moreira, with effect from 16 April 2018, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resignation of the Member and the replacement concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As there are no more votes, we turn to the oral explanations of vote, which were previously announced. Mr André Silva, I should like to tell you that the Rules of Procedure refer only to parliamentary groups such as those which have the power to produce oral explanations of vote. however, and given the participation of the NAP in this process, I believe that it is of the most fundamental justice that you can make this statement as quickly as possible. You have the floor, then, for a statement of vote, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP welcomes the adoption of a proposal which will ultimately guarantee the self-determination of trans people in the legal recognition of their identity and protect the sexual characteristics of intersex babies and children. Today, even with resistance, we have taken another historic step in the hard fight for the rights of peopleLGBT ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transvestites, transsexuals and transgender). After hearing testimony in the first person and favorable arguments from activists and specialists, the work carried out in the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination was essential to ensure the approval of this diploma. In spite of this great achievement, however, it must be noted that today's law could have gone even further, if other proposals had been received at the table, including those presented by the NAP, to enable access, by judicial means, to trans persons under 16 years of age and to ensure that, if the applicant had children or children, they should also update their personal documents. Nevertheless, the amendments adopted today mean an undeniable historical advance. Today we started a legislative path that was about to be done and that we will certainly continue to follow. Today, we have had a positive note on an rainbow map that we want to see grow throughout Europe and the world. We are also grateful to those in the galleries who have attended this session and to all the people who have worked to make this change happen; thank and honor your strength and courage. It is a pride to make history with you. [[P.S., BE, and P.S. Helena Roseta.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u148	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes this historic moment. He is pleased, and does so by my voice, a little excited, with a historical step in recognizing the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person. It's a historic day. It is a historic day for which, at the moment, trans, young trans people are looking at Parliament, with hope. Today, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group honours all trans people, all young trans people, their families, particularly their mothers, whom we have heard here in Parliament in an absolutely historical process, which they have fought and the fight is theirs, and the conquest is, first of all, theirs. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Today, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group assumes the responsibility to do and continue to pursue this path which, apart from the law, has to be traced in schools, health services, changes in mentalities, so that one of the most stigmatized and discriminated groups in Portuguese society and in the world can live in peace, knowing who it is, without having any more the offense of the State to tell them: « it must be others to tell for you, who you are». Many congratulations to those who are here and to all who have come before you. I still leave a word of not forgetting to all those people who have not been able and who have not come to this moment. [[P.S., BE, and P.S. Helena Roseta's deputy, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u150	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at the end of the vote we just held, the Greens just wanted to emphasize that the meaning and burden of their vote were governed by the fight we make here to non-discrimination. This is the path we always seek to take here, too, in the Assembly of the Republic, in respect for human rights, in constant respect for the dignity of people's lives, in this case also, of course, in respect for their self-determination and their identity. That's why we'd like to sign, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, through their vote, are also of the opinion that they have taken an important step in this direction. There was a work done in the field of specialty, focused and with the contribution of several parliamentary groups. I think it was a very important job, a path which has also taken us here in Parliament, in order to achieve exactly what has been achieved in Portugal today. Thank you very much and well done. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u152	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, first of all, the trans people present in the galleries, as well as the associations representing LGBTI people and all the trans people who, not being here in the galleries, are out there, waiting, waiting for the historical outcome that we have achieved today in this Parliament. This is, in fact, another step forward in respect for fundamental human rights, which is respect for the right to gender self-determination, a right which is recognised to any or any of us, almost automatically, but which is denied whenever the body does not match the gender with which the person identifies himself. The drop from age to age 16 in access to change in registration, in the citizen's card, name and gender with which the person identifies also means that we recognize that the suffering that young people go through and face daily, in their daily lives, non-acceptance, discrimination, violence, is not tolerable in this House, in this Parliament, and in this country. We recognize that we could have gone further. The Left Block considers that the proposals that were not integrated also recognized access to the law not only by immigrants and asylum seekers but also by children under 16 years of age. And here, yes, it would actually be going further with regard to conferring rights on children who are now being consecrated to adults. In any case, this is an absolutely extraordinary, historical advance, which refers to the most fundamental respect for the right of all people to their gender self-determination. It is indeed a historic moment and I am a little excited and looking for words. I thank, once again, all the work, all the commitment that several people, various collectives and various organizations have had, since the beginning, since the preparation of this project that the Block of Left delivered in this House, in May 2016, two years ago. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and public at the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u154	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This law, which we just voted on, sick of ideological radicalism,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u156	Listen! We heard it too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u157	... is generating uncertainty and legal insecurity and what is in progress is a process and a social deconstruction agenda with which the PSD will not compact! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is not against self-determination, nor does it deny self-determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u158	Sure! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u159	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who create conditions so as to allow our colleague, Member of the PSD, to complete his statement of vote. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u160	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the explanations of vote and therefore it is the least they have heard the PSD statement of vote. [[It's true! That's right!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u161	The PSD is not against self-determination, nor denies self-determination,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u162	Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u163	...but, like everything else, there have to be rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u164	Limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u165	And here it was about establishing rules and regulating procedures for the exercise of this self-determination. Therefore, the PSD had a proposal, which was the most moderate of this House. The PSD and the majority of Portuguese do not conceive that an amendment of that order,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... as is the change of sex attributed to birth, with the social implications and legal certainty that this entails, can be done without a clinical follow-up,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u167	... even as a way to protect and ensure the free and informed decision-making of themselves. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not conceive that intersex child surgeries are prohibited, totally devalued medicine and clinical decision, distrusting it even, and totally disregarding the role of the family and parents, who have the right,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u168	Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u169	...to make decisions for their children, in their education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u170	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u171	We're sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the radical left parties, where we include the Socialist Party,... [[PS protests.]] ... they did not want to talk and reach a consensus on this law and find a solution that was to meet the trans people we respect,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u172	... but also ensuring the legal certainty and security standards of the social order. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is wrong in this photograph. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u173	You voted against in 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u174	The Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u175	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u176	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Socialist Party has abandoned a moderate position and joined the radical left extremism and will have to assume its responsibilities towards the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u177	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u178	Mr President, just to finish, this law does not have the accession of most Portuguese,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ...and the Socialist Party will have to answer for that! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u179	To conclude the explanations of vote, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u180	Mr. President, I'm going to wait for us to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u181	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who remain silent so that Mrs Vania Dias da Silva can begin her intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS voted against this initiative for two essential reasons such as, moreover, we have already stated and are public. We voted against because we disagree from the age limit, 16 years old, because they are people who cannot marry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u183	When you're 16, you can get married!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u184	... that they cannot vote, that they cannot decide to drink alcohol,... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr President, I would ask you to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let this debate take place in the tolerance and respect that is required, because this is an important issue. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Tolerance only for some!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u185	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for the excellent work you have done. Members to keep the same silence as the other Members. Members maintained when they produced their explanations of vote. So I repeat this request. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, people who are 16 years old can't decide to drink alcohol, they can't drive, etc. etc. In our view, they should not be able to make a decision with such definitive and serious consequences in the life of a child. This is because, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about minors. We therefore believe that these decisions should not be taken unless people already have their full capacity and can properly take the decisions they make. We understand that it doesn't make sense that it's any other way. I must also say, Mr President and Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the hearings we did, as the ladies and gentlemen well know. Members who were there, all the doctors we heard, at the question if it was possible to change the legal age of majority to the age of 16, if the conditions for this were already formed, they told us invariably that it was not possible, because the majority of clinics, if we want, are reaching today at the age of 24. We therefore believe that it is not time for this debate to be held. If you want to debate the change in the legal age of the majority, we'll be here to do it. We understand that we should not do so now and that is why this is our decision. I would also like to say, Mr President, that, according to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, children are persons up to the age of 18 years and, therefore, they cannot make such decisions until that age. That is why this was our point of vote. I conclude by saying that the clinical report, which is deleted, is essential to us because we believe that we must live in security and legal certainty and that, therefore, we cannot end the civil registration, as is done in this proposal without more. That is why, Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to say that we are not indifferent to this subject. We know, we do not ignore, that there are people who live intense personal dramas, that suffering is great. And we have a lot of understanding about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u187	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u188	I would like to stress that there is another way that should be followed, which is that of the SNS and that of awareness-raising in schools, which is not being done. This was, for us, the way in which we should go. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-04-13.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. We will meet again on Wednesday 18 April for the 15th year discussion with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is the parliamentary groups that take the initiative to ask questions to which Mr Prime Minister will answer. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 54 minutes.]]
