ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. In the meantime, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following initiatives: projects of lein.o 728 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 729 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the legal regime applicable to term contracts by implementing the commitments contained in the Government Programme and the recommendations of the working group for the preparation of a national plan to combat precariousness, making the third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ) which falls to 10. the Commission, 730 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the Troika period relating to termination of the job and eliminates the figure of dismissal due to inadaptation, making the third amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 731 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Restores the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 732 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the schemes of the individual hourly bank and individual adaptability by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 733 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime for specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the procedure ( CFP ), 734 / XIII ( 3 ) must be followed. ( a ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests ( PS ), which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, and 735 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities that perform representation of interests ( PS ), which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions ; and draft resolutions 1227 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of forest management measures to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( CDS-PP ), 1228 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government stop solving the problem of unqualified damage to BANIF and BES / GES ( PSD ), 1229 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the establishment of an arbitral, prompt and expeditious mechanism for the resolution of emerging disputes in the sale and marketing of financial products to unskilled investors by credit institutions subject to resolution measures ( CDS-PP ), 1230 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Protection of unqualified investors of BANIF ( PS ), 1231 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a programme to promote the use of agroforestry biomass for self-consumption ( CDS-PP ), 1232 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, open a speciality invitation to tender for all newly trained doctors, ensuring good conditions for training and the increase in the number of vacancies, that, under Decree-Law No 86/2015 of 21 May, ensure that training is awarded in all establishments meeting the requirements necessary for this purpose, in accordance with the proposal of the Order of Doctors, irrespective of the sector to which they belong, and that under Decree-Law No 86/2015 of 21 May, open vacancies for medical detention in all establishments with training qualifications ( CDS-PP ), 1233 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures for monitoring and mitigating the rolling stock of animals on roads ( BE ), 1234 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the application of the contents of Ordinance No 321/2017 of 9 October to the other municipalities with significant areas burned in 2017 ( BE ), 1235 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government speed up the identification process of fraudulent practices in the marketing of financial products in the BES / GES and BANIF ( BE ) processes, 1236 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to regulate schedules, combat wear and improve the working conditions of teachers ( BE), 1237 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to ensure specialized training for all physicians ( BE ), 1238 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an impact assessment of animal husbandry in the ecosystem and adopts preventive measures in accordance with the results ( NAP ), 1239 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the code of conduct of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic ( PS ), which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, 1240 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government legislate to ensure that accompanying pregnant women in the interlocutory displacements of the Azores have the absences to work justified in labour law ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1241 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Endorses opinion on the proposal for a Council decision adopting provisions amending the act on the election of members of the European Parliament by universal suffrage ( Committee on European Affairs). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I would like to commend the leader of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for his return, especially for the reasons that motivated his brief departure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the agenda, with the request to the Government No 15/ XIII ( 3 ). a ), presented by the CDS-PP, on education policies. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has for today allocated an appeal to the Government to discuss education policies. The middle of the legislature is the right time for the balance sheet of decisions taken, to hold the government accountable for the much that it has proposed to do, without succeeding, and to demand that it bring results in the time that is still missing. What is not lacking is news of the daily concerns in schools, as is the case today of Évora school: the lack of heating in many of them; the works and employees, which continue to delay; the funds which the Ministry has not yet transferred to pay for professional courses, extracurricular activities or manuals; and, very serious and contradictory with what has been subsequently announced, in large cacophony, by the various voices of the government and its supporters, teachers continue without knowing what the law reserves to them for the just solution of their problems. But first of all, I want to start with the most important, the reason for being the educational system: the students. And, as for students, there are two stories to tell: one, of failure, which, increasingly, ends in abandonment, and on which the government's education policy has responsibility; and another, of success, which is the result of previous government policies and with which we should be persistent. It is true that success or failure depends heavily on the socio-economic condition of students, but precisely for this reason, the school must be a mitigating factor of this will, and it is failing. Current numbers show that the course of failure is revealed soon after 1. the cycle. The retention rate No 2. the year is 9 %, which means that each year more than 8,000 children of 7 years are not being taught, either reading or writing, or teaching them the rudiments of mathematics. And the fundamental question is not self-retention, the question is what the school is not doing for these 8,000 children every year. Already at the end of the 2nd. the cycle, at age 11, more than one in three students has at least one negative and about 7000 have three or more negative. no 6. the year, for example, 30% of students have negative mathematics and, if we consider only the most disadvantaged, the percentage rises to 48 %. Same pattern for English, the second discipline with greater failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u5	I'd say!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u6	It is found that students with these negatives have difficulty recovering, whether passing year or repeating year. In other words, mere retention does not solve difficulties, but the smooth transition does not. Specific measures are required to ensure that schools can properly support these students. Reaching 7. the year, 60 % of the students who lead have six or more negatives and more than half of the students of step A of the School Social Action ( ESA ) have negative mathematics, compared to 25 % of those who do not need State support. But there are also, fortunately, success figures, results, as we shall see, of previous fruitful policies and that this government has abandoned early, in the desire to change everything without waiting to see. We recently learned that the percentage of 9 students. the year that, without lead in its course, had a positive note in the exams increased last school year to 46 %. This improvement of results is from the students who entered the 7th. the year 2014 / 2015, which took exams no 6. the year and that have already learned from the curriculum goals, and these results converge with the improvement also in the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment). Finally, in secondary education, data show a reality similar to 9. year. last school year, the percentage of direct successful courses increased to 42 %. at the same time, we know that half of the students cannot complete the secondary school in three years and that 35% leave school two years later. For this problem, vocational education, as a choice, is a consensus solution, in which, a few days ago, Mr Prime Minister said to bet. It happens that the Ministry of Education informed public schools at the end of December that there would be no funding for professional courses and that it had not yet paid private schools the 2017 funds. The Government seems to understand that education policy runs out in advertisements, in inflamed declarations of betting.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u8	But betting without paying, it is no more than deceiving and compromising, without honor, the word given. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These data allow objectively to assess the evolution of the education system and to adjust the public policies to be pursued accordingly. The CDS does not exempt itself from this assessment and today presents its reading on two measures propagandised by this Government, the first being the introduction of mid-cycle measurement tests. in this school year, the students of the 8. the year will have evidence of Visual Education, Physical Education and Mathematics and, last year, the tests were of Portuguese and Science combined with Physics Chemicals. These are evidence that students do not take seriously and do not allow comparability in the measurement of results. Do they serve exactly what purpose? Do you give us what new information? By the time the students of 2. the year will make proofs of Portuguese and Study of the Meio, Mathematics and Study of the Meio, Artistic Expressions and Physical-Motor Expressions, but we will only go back to them from here to three years, when they are already in 2. the cycle at the end of 5. the year, and it is known there, at that time, to what disciplines. The failure will continue and, worse still, it will become encapsulated, deresponsible for the political power, which conceals it, and aggravates the responsibility of the schools, which have lost the compass, which so far allowed them to compare and correct. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The second measure is the National School Success Promotion Program (PNPSE), a pompous name that does no more than add a set of projects that schools, with their own resources and little more, already develop in a singular class or in a full year, of the 12 compulsory schooling. Ending in 2018, this Programme is like a smoke curtain, which again holds schools accountable, but disresponsibles the government. We have repeatedly questioned the government about which goal it has set for the reduction of the rate of failure. The response appeared, although fully framed, in a study on the size of classes and commissioned by the Ministry to the ISCTE ( Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences ). We learned that the school success programme is committed to a 25% reduction in the retention rate by 2018, associated with a saving of EUR 62 million. We want to believe this, Minister, and I can assure you that we will be very careful about meeting these goals. For the CDS, the fight against failure and school dropout requires the responsibility of the Ministry and require: the effective universalization of pre-school education as a guarantee of equal opportunities; freedom of education, especially for the most disadvantaged; negotiation with policy teachers on their initial and continuing training and on their career and retirement; training opportunities for young people who, after 18 years, leave school without completing 12. year. However, none of these successful vectors can be seen as decisive action by this government and the parties that support it. And time is urgent, because every year it is wasted time for students without the opportunity to support and improve their circumstances, which the Constitution devotes to them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is important, because it is essential to a future project, cannot alienate us from what is urgent, and there is no doubt an urgent need to resolve the daily problems of schools. Here too, more action and less apologies are required with the past, because: every year there is winter, but this year no money has been saved so that schools can pay the electricity bill and fight the cold; the free textbooks have been established, but schools and bookstores have only started to be paid at the end of December; competitions have been opened for employees, but we are in January and only now begin to arrive the first ones of the 1500s; schools continue waiting for works, but are suspended in intentions announcements. We are told that the page has been turned, but on the now open page we only find misleading advertising! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For what is important, this Ministry has no vision, no courage or support. Whether it is urgent or not to have sensitivity or to see the lack of money that I had previously criticized. With this explanation, the CDS hopes that the Government will comply with its share, give account of what it is doing and, above all, renews, very clearly, the commitment to improvements and progress goals and presents the means to do so. This is the answer we hope to obtain today before this Parliament and before the country, so that they will not then come to apologize for the much they have promised and for the little they have done, as you are seeing everyone today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u9	We have, at this stage of opening, the Government's response to the request of the CDS-PP through the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A government is done in the exact measure of the improvements it guarantees to the citizens it serves. The measure of good governance is therefore the improvement of people's lives. This is precisely what we also do in education: to improve the national education service to which Portuguese have access and to which they have full rights. I know well, I know everyone, that there is always more and better to do, especially in a sector such as education that tells so many Portuguese people, but we also know that education is far better today than it was before this government. We know the government, as the Portuguese know, and also the Members who represent them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that in politics, even less in education, we are not always in agreement, we count on that, and that is the natural order of things. It is therefore up to those who oppose this government and the programme who have not voted in favour of saying that their priorities are theirs, what I would do differently, what I would abdicate and for what purpose. This is what this government expects from an opposition that wants to carry out the important mission that the Portuguese, electorally, have given it: to be the alternative, a conscious alternative that it is not enough to say wrong. More than two years back, we expect this noble function to finally find, today and in this House, one who gives it a voice. As the Deolinda sings: « If it is to happen, for it is now». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It's not all done, it's never done, but the state of education in 2018 is much better than it was in 2015,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... not only, and it was already important, because there were teachers placed in time and hours, school years to start in September, and not in November, and the inclusion of all in a continuous social dialogue, instead of the promotion of wars between the different faces of the educational community, as if negotiation was not exactly the essence of the way of being democratic. Education is not only better, and it would already be something to be welcomed, because budget cuts have stagnated in education and instead there has been a progressive budget, increasing Portuguese investment in education by 633 million. Finally, education in Portugal is not even better because it now hires its teachers with more stability, combating the precariousness of these professionals who are dedicated to educating Portuguese. Since this government has been permanently linked to more than 3,500 teachers, it repeats this process this year, in the same number, in a new extraordinary link. And we go even further, including in the extraordinary linkage the artistic teaching and the music and dance recruitment groups, as well as creating the new Portuguese Gestal Language Recruitment Group, launching new competitions and applying a new norm-work to those who have rights that, of course, we recognize it. We recognize these rights to teachers who build the national education service, as we recognize the inadequate school contract ( ECB ) that existed in 2015 and that does not exist in 2018 and how we recognize the imbalance that suffered the PACC (test of assessment of knowledge and skills) that we extinguished and whose tip we returned to those who paid for nothing. in the same sense, of the five successive contracts required in 2015 for teachers to benefit from the norm-work, we went on to three contracts in successive years, treating with respect who deserves all our respect. A strengthening of the commitment in educational human resources, also meaning in the new portfolio of ratios for operational assistants, which ensures that the ratio of international reference is met, both in preschool and in the important aid to students with special educational needs. No, it's not just for all of this, and all of this is not much, that education is better today than it was in 2015. We are today better than we were because we interrupt the impoverishment of the national education service and because we struggle, every day, for him to respond with more dignity as well as the Portuguese of him, and well, they expect. Education is today, and was not in 2015, promoting school success. in today's education there is finally a profile of students out of compulsory education, which has a double merit: that of exist and not being something different from what is, a humanist profile, rather than being a sectarian profile. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Education innovates in 2018. We have trained more than 35,000 teachers to methodologically respond to this technological and civic challenge, in an even more capable and up-to-date way. The same equity that was attacked in education in 2015 is prioritized in 2018 as one of the pillars of our governance. In 2017, we began to reduce the number of students per class in priority intervention educational territories, the ones who most lacked this important reduction that in 2018 we expanded to all school groups. If in 2015 the pre-school was not a priority, neither in speech nor in practice, in 2018 it is at the heart of educational words and actions. Pre-school education is a fundamental pillar of school success, so we expand the network, implementing the path of universalization to three years, through a budgetary reinforcement of more than 20 million euros, visible in the 170 new rooms that we opened and that we lacked so much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u11	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u12	Equity is also felt in the continuing strengthening that in all budgets we guarantee for social action at school. Thus, we allowed those who were excluded from the study visits to become part of them, we supported more families in the acquisition of school textbooks of the 2. o is 3. the teaching cycles, we open the canteens during periods of school holidays and, because we want more, we go further, we have now reached 2. the cycle in the freeness of school textbooks, with which we had already made cover all 1. the cycle. But there is even more, Mr President and Mr and Mr. Members, where you can see how the national education service is today more robust, because it is endowed with more success and equity. If something synthesizes as well as success and equity are two sides of the same coin, it is undoubtedly the bet we make in the qualification of vocational education and in the clarity with which we ended this misunderstanding of the educational exclusion which had the cynical name « vocational education», intended to try to disguise the national shame that it was effectively. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in vocational education, we have already managed to have more 254 classes and more 10 000 new vacancies, in this first and never second education. We now want to correct the unacceptable discrimination that these students were target in access to higher education, reinforcing the permeability of courses and the continuity of studies. in the ineffable vocation, we replace exclusion by inclusion, educational apartheid by reconciliation of all with their school as its place of success and equity. I am speaking to you now of the EUR 350 million that we have taken out of the role and that we have placed on the ground for, within the framework of the permit for the insufficient negotiation of Portugal 2020, but done before 2015, we re-qualify, in partnership with their authorities, more than 500 schools of pre-school secondary education, which needed this investment so much, many of them already opened and in full operation. This is because, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more capable education without more capable schools. Speaking to you about improving the lives of the Portuguese provided in and through education, I could never stop telling you about the important action of adult education and training (EFA), the same that was virtually annihilated by the previous government and that today, only two years later, existed again, clearly telling all citizens that none of them should stay behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have now, and we had not before, an investment of more than EUR 50 million in more than 300 Qualify centres in a vast network that has already reached the largest number of registries since 2011 and more than double the register in 2015. I repeat, more than double the register in 2015! It is already more than 125 000 Portuguese who have once again believed that Portugal truly believes in them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is proof that human capital is for this government, for the government that rules at the moment, more than something personal and intransmissible, something that Portugal and each of its citizens truly deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the stage of the debate. I inform Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that they are registered for clarification. Deputies Joana Mortágua, of BE, Maria Germana Rocha, of PSD, and Porfirio Silva, of PS. Madam Member, how do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u14	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u15	That being the case, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u16	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the CDS has already accustomed us to a variation in speech between the accusations of immobilism and accusations of excessive radical and irresponsible change. That is, whenever the system does not move to where the CDS wants to be immobilist, whenever there are changes that the CDS does not want to be because they are precipitated. And we ask: after all, what does the CDS want? You want to honor the inheritance of Nuno Crato? He wants the 1st. the cycle serves to learn how to read and write, as Mrs. Deputy said here, and just for that? They are politics of the past, they are the option of the CDS, but it is good to know that in the present they find only international parallel, for example, in the curriculum reform that the President of Brazil, Michel Temer, did. The CDS wants what is in the Portugal Front coalition program, which are the independent schools, which is to continue diverting money from the public to the private, exactly how does Trump defend? Is that the international parallel in the model of education that the CDS wants? The CDS says here that money is missing from public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u17	I don't think money's missing! I don't think anything's missing money!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u18	...but he took part in the government who took more money from the public school. One room of the budget was reduced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u19	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u20	... was cut three times more than the troika asked. The CDS comes here to say that it wants more stability, but it belonged to the government that more sudden changes did in the educational system: it changed the programs all, changed the goals all, changed the teacher hiring system, changed the curricula. Crato changed almost everything in the education system. The CDS comes here to say that they want quality meals, but it has forbidden them to hire cooks. We are here to say that there are problems, that there is a lack of technicians, a lack of teachers, a lack of assistants, but it belonged to the government that fired most in public school. So, as the CDS brings a lot of talk here, and between the practice of the reality of the past and the discourse that the CDS has today, the distance is huge, a question is required. Assumption Christians once said: sacrifice the public school. Is this still what the CDS wants? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u21	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u22	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, we have been discussing these issues for some time and it is therefore natural for you to imagine what is going on in my mind. But one thing that the honourable Member will also know is that we in the CDS are not monolytics, we do not « bury our heads in the sand» and we seek not to see what is happening around us. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] And what we are concerned about is whether or not we are successful with our students and, if we are not, we are looking for solutions — this seems sensible to me and, indeed, this is our role here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u23	But what are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u24	As for what happens in 1. the cycle, Mrs. Member, the school serves for a lot of things, and in this I agree with you, but there is one thing that the school cannot stop doing, that is to fulfill its role of teaching for students to learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u26	So I think it is very good that other things are done, very varied other things, and until each school, in exercising its autonomy, decides what is best for each educational community—and has heard me say this many times. Now, I don't live well with the knowledge that every year there are 8,000 children 7 years old who can't read, write, or the minimum math. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u27	If the honourable Member is living with that, it is with you. Here, on this bench, no one deals well with this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u28	Let's see about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u29	And, Mrs Deputy, that is, yes, a misuse of public money in public school and in this sense we find it very critical that we all discuss this here, ignoring this issue. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] As for stability, Mrs Deputies, yes, it is true that we are defending stability. And that's how, if you remember, a year ago, I defended right here that there was a maintenance of structural public policies for six years,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u30	...accepting what I just said now that I do not agree, that it is the proof of measurement, for the sake of this stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u31	Criticize your inheritance!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u32	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you can accuse me of a lot, but not of lack of coherence and lack of concern about the system. This is what you can't. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u33	Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u34	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all I would like to commend the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for the relevance and topicality of the topic that has brought us here today on education policies. In this regard, the recent data from the indicator of the direct paths of success in paragraph 3. the cycle and secondary, in 2017, reflect the results of students who entered the 7. o or 9. the years in 2014 / 2015, showing the percentage of students who did not have retentions in previous school years and who also obtained a positive classification in the two national tests of the 9. the year and secondary exams in 2016 / 2017, accounting for an improvement of performances of these same young people. Now, this shows that these students, who performed final tests of the 6th. the year and which were positive in national exams, at nothing were affected by the introduced requirement and the focus on knowledge. Also studies on the best results of always Portuguese students in the PISA show that the improvement of the knowledge effectively acquired has resulted in a greater capacity for mobilising knowledge in mathematics, reading and science to solve problems from day to day, becoming an indispensable precursor for the development of so-called « skills ». In hearing, when Mr. Minister of Education questioned whether there would be any plan or strengthening of specific means of intervention in the 500 schools already identified, where the issue of reading problems, as a school failure guide is more useful, Mr. Secretary of State replied that it would be within the framework of the PNPSE that the intervention would be made through the Program team during the visits to these schools to analyze the results and identify strategies. That is why, Mrs Deputies, the question is that if the National School Success Promotion Programme, in addition to being a smoke curtain, serves for everything, as you said, we once again saw "a lot of straw and a little grape". [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u35	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u36	Mr President, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, as I told you, until this study commissioned by the Ministry to the ISCTE on the size of classes, I had no information on what was the ambition of success that the Ministry associated with the National School Success Promotion Programme. Now, we know that it is 25 % by the end of this school year, we know that this will bring an immediate saving of EUR 62 million and, therefore, we will wait until the end of the year to check these data with great attention and with great willingness for them to actually happen. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] in this same study, whose reading I recommend, including the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, because it is a very interesting study and a very expensive theme to these two parties, that of the size of the classes, although in terms that may be somewhat below their expectations,... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] ... there is another note, in my view, very interesting and that has to do with what the honourable Member said about the 9th exams. the year and the students who took exams in 6. year. It says, at a certain point, this study: « Interest(...) deepen this extensive analysis, as regards the relationship between the number of students per class and the school performance of students, (...) » and we will do so « (...) for the 4. o, 6. it's 9. the years of basic education, as well as 12. the year(...), since it is in those years that national examinations take place. (...) The choice of these school years and not others is linked to the fact that the results in the examinations are an indicator of a standardized nature, in line with what is usual in international research. In addition, they offer better conditions of comparability by being the same proof and evaluation process for the overallity of students. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr Minister, then, you who said you had consulted the entire academy and the researchers to be able to justify that the exams were a bad thing and that it made sense to replace them with proof of measurement, would certainly not have listened to the ISCTE at that time. And it is unfortunate, Minister, because this year's success results show that the students who took exams in 6. the year and which had curricular goals had a good performance in the 9 exams. year. And that is what we all want. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u37	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u38	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the topic that the CDS-PP has chosen to discuss with the Government today is obviously a relevant issue and therefore we welcome the CDS-PP. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa is a Member always speaking, informed and interested in these matters and, obviously, even when we do not agree, it is important that we be able to discuss these matters. In her initial speech the honourable Member announced a very broad range of issues that are relevant in the area of education. I had several other questions to ask you, but, as this is not possible at this stage, we will do them at other times of the debate. however, on two specific subjects that you mentioned, I would like to ask you concrete questions, because it is also important to realize this in order to continue this debate. Madam President, first of all, the issue of evaluation. It is known that this Government and this parliamentary majority have made significant changes in evaluation matters, in particular we have completed early examinations, namely an examination 4. the year that virtually no civilized country, in addition to Portugal, had and we introduced the measurement tests in years that we considered important so that the learning difficulties of students will not be accumulated and that it can be interfered and improved in time. at that time, when this process began, the CDS and, in particular, the honourable Member spoke on this matter as a facilitation strategy, saying that the strategy of this government and this majority was of facilitation, was to put an end to rigour. Then it changed. For some time, I had already said that, after all, the results of the evaluation indicated great difficulties on the part of the students. So we don't realize if it's easy and it's not to evaluate anything, or if, after all, it's to find difficulties and to give them answers. And this aspect of giving them answers is very important. It was recently indicated that both the individual reports of the measurement tests (RIPA) and the school reports of the measurement tests ( REPA) are having very important results. Why? Because schools, teachers and students are responding, they are changing their strategies, they are changing their practices, they are changing their resources to respond to the difficulties indicated. I would like to know whether, in view of this, Mrs Deputy has come to appreciate the fact that the evaluation is not to be selected, not to be to exclude, not to be to shoot out of the system, but to be to recover, to be to face, to be to solve, to be to be to improve. This is a very concrete question: is the CDS or is it not monitoring the enormous amount of work that schools are doing to take advantage of the measurement, to improve the response of the system to the difficulties of students? The other very concrete question, Mrs Deputies, is about another matter to which the honourable Member made a reference in her initial speech, but on which she did not say anything concrete: teachers. The CDS repeats, several times, despite what it has done in the past about the teachers, which is necessary — and we also agree — to value the teachers. But, Madam Member, about what is now being discussed and which is now being decided, what we wanted to know, in particular, is what the CDS proposals for teachers are. It is that the CDS cannot remain by this technique, that tactic of talking about teachers only to affix the label and then not to say in concrete whatever it is done. These are two very specific questions, which, I think, make clear the importance of the topic and the relevance that the CDS can have in these matters, although we are often in agreement with the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u39	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u40	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, the failure of which none of us likes, nor does any of us approve — and of course — is prior to the existence or not of tests or evidence. For example, number 2. the year, which, as I mentioned in my intervention, is a year in which there are neither, nor have ever been, exams, there are 8,000 students every year that, as shown by continuous evaluation, do not have success in school. The honourable Member and, moreover, the honourable Members. Members on your left — you are not the only one doing this — they always make this comparison: they establish a relationship between exams and failure such as that between the thermometer and the fever and say that if you stop putting the thermometer, there is no fever. That's exactly what the honourable Member says, isn't it? [[Protests from the members of the PS Porfirio Silva and BE Joana Mortágua.]] So if you stop taking tests, there won't be failure. Well, that relationship has to be over, it's a slug. The tests are a form of measurement. There are or there are no exams in 2. the year, there's failure there, and that's what we should be talking about, it's about that concern. Then we can discuss whether you think the exam instrument is the most appropriate, or not. But one thing I can say to you: although you understand that the measuring evidence is the most appropriate instrument, tell me if you think it is reasonable to make that assessment to 2. the year and then after passing the 3. o and 4. the years, the time when a cycle ends and the boys change from school, only at the end of 5. the year is that you will look back at them and realize if, after all, magically, there was some work. It is that there is continuous evaluation in all cases, and that is not what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u41	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u42	I think this sheds light on our thinking on the matter. With regard to the teachers, I understand your concern. I understand it very well because it seems to me that the PS bench and, indeed, the government are all a bit of a fight about it. It is that I have worked here to have several pages of statements which, from November 2 to today, have been made on the subject of the repositioning of teachers following the thawing. And I'm going to mention a few, to see how many fighting they are. on 2 November, the Minister for Education, Minister for Protection responsible for this class, said: « You have my word that I will fight radically for the rights of teachers». Already on 4 November, Mr. Prime Minister said: «The thawing will happen for the entire Public Administration, but that does not mean for anyone who will have a career reconstruction». Several statements were made and Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, today present on 27 November, on the day of the closure of the discussion of the State Budget Bill for 2018, made an inflamed speech, in which he said : « (...) when we defuse the careers of public officials(...), do not forget who we are talking about, we speak about women and men (... ) who teach our children(... ). They are men and women living like the others, but who, over the last few years, have been mistreated, humiliated, disregarded. Again: we are not giving them anything that is not yours or doing any favors. We are only complying with the law and the contracts that the State has signed with them. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, this would induce-CL-me the thought that they will meet those who are the legitimate expectations of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u43	That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u44	But on 15 December, however, the Secretary of State has already said that perhaps it was not so, that there will be some relevance, while the person responsible for public employment remembered it was necessary to ensure sustainability to the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u45	Answer your questions about your proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u46	I would therefore suggest to Mr Porfirio Silva that he take care of his affairs and organize his ideas before he is concerned about ours, which we have already communicated to the honourable Members. Teachers in good time. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Álvaro Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u47	The honourable Member has not answered the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u48	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made requests for clarification to the Minister of Education. To that end, I give the floor, once again and with great pleasure, to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u49	Mr President, that way the debate is becoming a bit monotonous, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u50	Don't...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u51	Are you going to answer my questions now?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u52	Mr President, Minister of Education, this is an appeal to the Government, it is not an appeal to the opposition, so it is up to the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u54	But I return to you what I said, with another song—more than my time, because I am a little older than Mr. Minister—of the Trovantes, who said: ‘There is always someone who says to us: ‘Be careful’ / There is always someone who makes us think a little.’ That was the objective of my intervention,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... until, Mr Minister, if you have listened carefully, we have listed our priorities and explained the various lines and the various vectors of action for school success. Let me ask the Minister what we would abdicate to make our choices. Mr Minister, I do not know very well what I would abdicate, for a simple reason: I do not have the figures for the implementation of the State budget, because Mr Minister never gives them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u56	Up to the website of the Institute of Financial Management of Education, where, until 2015, all budgets implemented by all governments up to theirs were published, this information has ceased to be published. So I have a lot of difficulty in knowing what aggregates and what specific values it would stir up, for the simple reason that I don't make the slightest idea where your government is spending the money. But I know what Mr. Minister is abdicating, I know very well. There was a public school that wrote to us the following: « (...) We received an e-mail on December 19, informing that the professional courses of 2017 - 2020 will not have funding because there is no money, only to private or public professional schools were allowed to apply for finance. I do not imagine how we will be able to run the courses if everyone has been approved on a school network, but now the Ministry tells us that there is no money. Meals, passes, student allowances, expenses with suppliers, operating expenses... We don't have any money for anything! Do not keep on seeking. ” One private school has also written to us the following : « (...) We receive the refund of 2016, but from the application for 2016 - 2019, nothing. The POCH ( Operational Capital Human Programme) is due to our school by 31 August 2017, more than 3 million euros in reimbursements, which we have already asked for. Mrs. Member, help us! We resort to the General Box with a security account, which pays interest, which do not count as eligible expense, to pay wages, food for workers and students, scholarships, transport for all, until December 2017. Do not keep on seeking. ” Minister, is this what you're abdicating? [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Álvaro Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u57	The Bureau was informed that the Minister of Education will respond to requests for clarification in two groups, the first of five and the second of four. Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, therefore, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Minister of Education, this government has the task of recovering the public school from the destruction it was subjected to in the years of the troika and the PSD government / CDS. The one that was the degradation of public education services had moments of attack on concrete sectors, those moments that were a real destruction and calamity in public school. One of these sectors was adult education, mentioned even in the report on the state of education, of the NEC ( National Council of Education ). And examples are not missing, from the lack of funding and curricular impoverishment to the lack of respect for the professionals in the sector. Artistic education also represented one of the prime focus of the attack that Nuno Crato carried out in public school. In addition to the court in its funding, these students were disregarded, assuming the then right-wing government that their model of entry and evaluation for higher education represented—see only! — positive discrimination. It was well known where I wanted to get to the right: to devalue the teaching of the arts, accusing him of being a facilitator. at the beginning of this legislature, the Bloc presented a draft resolution, which was approved right here, and the government opened—and well! — a discussion on this subject, created a working group and held a debate on it. in this context, it was important to re-evaluate the artistic fitness test and rethink the weight of the tests, which became mandatory, taxed at the time by Nuno Crato. The Bloc welcomes and is proud to have prepared this dossier, to have discussed it with the government, but it is now lacking to put it into practice. For when, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u59	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education, if it is true that the problems in education are vast and it is long to be solved, it is also true that some people only now come to the imperative will to solve them because, when they were in government, what they knew best was to deepen them by looking at rights as a mental assault and saying that there should only be money to finance them.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u62	Mr Minister, time is running out and too many answers are still missing. It is necessary to combat the precariousness of teachers and non-teachers throughout the public school, while not forgetting the shameful working situation of workers in the school canteens, it is necessary to strengthen school social action, it is urgent to combat the degradation of school facilities, to fill the lack of equipment, to reintroduce democratic management. We have followed the negotiating process with the teachers carefully. Trade union organizations demand respect for the commitments they have made, for the right to fair repositioning and for the defense of careers. For this reason, as regards the latter aspect, the government has opted for the imposition of a progression regime at 5. a is 7. the totally arbitrary steps, which do not define minimum quotas and any negotiation process? Teachers' competitions also need to respond to the need for stabilization and to combat precariousness. More than amended, confusing and unconnected legislation, to which there are additional appreciable measures which, if maintained, will bring new contradictions, as is the case with the anticipation of the internal competition of teachers for this year, it is necessary to ensure a more fair and coherent regime that avoids subversions of the criterion of professional graduation. For when? As for the lack of operational assistants in schools, it is not enough to say that the 3000 contracts have been renewed and that 550 — which are already more — are already being placed. The fact is that we need a lot of urgency in resolving this situation. How will this process be accelerated? It is that every week we have news of schools in a state of ruin because of the lack of these workers. in the hearing of the Ministry of Education in the context of the State Budget for 2018, in November, we questioned precisely the realization of urgent works at the High School André de Gouvéia and the lack of operational assistants in schools throughout the municipality of Évora,... [[Protests from PSD Deputies Amadeu Soares Albergaria and Pedro Alves.]] ... responsibility of the government - we said then - that it did not authorize the opening of tenders and the hiring of staff so that schools could function properly. on Monday, there was an earthquake that felt with some intensity in the region and there were not enough operational assistants who could intervene, if there had been any major problem. Today, the management of the School decided to interrupt the educational activities, due to the absence of minimum operating conditions due to lack of staff and works in the facilities. As far as Mr Minister, the Government is going to lead to the lack of staff and the degradation of physical facilities and conditions of operation of a school—in this case, in Évora, but many more will be —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u64	...what are the full responsibility of the Ministry of Education? [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Member Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u65	Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Education, the recent reports on the real financial difficulties of public schools in dealing with current expenditure, such as heating, electricity, water, consumables and of course school materials, were ready and publicly rejected and denied by the Minister of Education. According to the Minister, schools do not pay their bills because they do not want — that is what we can conclude. But the PSD knows that the directors are not lying and that, in fact, the garrote about schools, contrary to what would be expected, has been aggravated in the last two years. The director's complaints about the headquartered austerity imposed on schools in the last two years indicate that Portuguese schools have no money to renew the computer material. The President of the National Association of School Leaders (ANDE ) said that there are schools with rooms full of damaged and outdated computer material because the budget is increasingly narrower, and in 2018 the budget will certainly be more and more narrow. Given that no investment or plan has been recorded in the last two years, that in the technology services for schools there is a cut of almost 40 % of the budgeted and that the acquisition of technological material is made mostly by schools, whose budgets, as I said, have been subject to significant cuts and seizures, it is legitimate to assume that at the moment schools are becoming a sort of electric and electronic waste collection centres, given the accumulation of obsolete computer material, as is shown in information disclosed by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics (DGEEC). Another thing we can conclude is that if we have already verified by the cuts and captivations that Minister Brandão did not send in education, we now realize, with the creation of these new centres for the collection of electrical and electronic waste, the protection will also be shared with the Minister of the Environment! But let's get back to what's important. In fact, technological modernization is a priority and has been focused on improving the efficiency and efficiency of services, within the framework of the administrative modernization initiated by the previous Government, which reflected a set of measures to be progressively implemented also in the Ministry of Education : for example, the integration of the data network of schools, agencies and RCTS (Network, Technology and Society) into a common data communication platform or also the use of cloud consulting. These are important measures, but they cannot neglect the necessary guarantee of means so that it is possible to carry out the training of younger people in digital skills in all teaching cycles. In fact, although in the Great Plan Options (GOP) for 2018, it will be said that—and I quote—"(...) the review of programmatic content and teaching processes, developing new educational and digital resources, adapting the technological infrastructure of the teaching system, promoting the training of teachers and trainers", by 2018, specifically, only the mere — and I quote again—"(...) support for projects and new pedagogical practices in elementary and secondary schools in subjects of logic, algorithms and programming, as well as in emerging forms of citizenship in the digital age". What we can conclude from the wording of this text is that, once again, it does not pass from a romantic discourse, where we find a mixture of a periphrase with an euphemism. That is, the government says in many words what could be said in a few words and turns a bad thing into a good thing, because, in fact, there will be no investment in computer material in schools. The question I wanted to ask, Minister, was whether you and your government have any program or project that is actually designed to replace and renew computer equipment in schools. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u67	For the last request for clarification of this first set, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education, we agree: in fact, education is today better than it was in 2015 — but now I add, it is not yet on the spot. Even today, Wednesday, as already mentioned, the High School André de Gouveia, in Évora, is closed because there are no conditions to teach. And there are no conditions because there are not enough employees and the School cannot guarantee the provision of meals.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u69	Does that mean you're better? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u70	The worst thing is, unfortunately, this is not a single case. There are schools with operating difficulties due to lack of requalification of the facilities, with rooms without heating, sports pavilions where is common rain and canteens without conditions to make meals, in addition to the problems of asbestos coverage. There is also a lack of sufficient staff to ensure minimum services for the safe operation of schools. A short time ago the Grouping of Schools of Vila Nota de Aguiar gave notice of the shortage of operational assistants, who is challenging the normal functioning of the school establishments that integrate this Grouping. We well know that these are not problems right now, they are problems that have been dragged for years, aggravated, indeed, in the years of PSD/CDS governance, but that still require immediate answers. Therefore, Minister, it would be important for us to talk about the government's plan for schools to be the target of real investment, both at the level of the premises and at the level of employees, that the schools, both in Évora and in Vila Nota de Aguiar, are just examples of the many that could be given. Mr Minister, the Government is replacing asbestos in some schools in the country, but according to some cases this substitution is being made with polyurethane plates, which is a highly flammable material and which also contains volatile organic components that are released with its degradation and that are potentially carcinogenic. That is, if it is true, contrary to what was intended, we are not solving any problems by replacing the plates with asbestos, but we are delaying the resolution of a problem or creating a new problem. Therefore, Minister, I would be interested today to confirm whether or not asbestos plates are being replaced by sustainable solutions that do not pose a risk to people. It was also important to know whether these interventions are being done by certified companies for the purpose and under security conditions, because there is news that we are aware of the withdrawal of asbestos plates while students are in class, which seems absolutely unthinkable to us. Mr Minister, it would be important for us to talk about these issues until it is also necessary to reassure the school community, which must be concerned about the news that has been coming to the public in recent days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u71	To answer the questions put, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u72	Mr President, starting with Mr. José Luís Ferreira's question, it is important to say that this government does not save security — it never did or will! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government has not given any guidance, suggestions or even made recommendations to save on materials or to use materials that are not in legislation because they are dangerous or endanger the health of our children, our teachers and all those who work in our schools. What has to be absolutely clear, I repeat, absolutely clear is that we do not make concessions. Neither I, nor my team, nor the whole government have any hesitation in putting the safety of our students, our educational communities first.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u74	The works in our schools, and there are many — although we are talking about them, we are talking not only of more than 200 interventions, an extended set of interventions from the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Education, but also of 300 interventions from the direct responsibility of the municipalities, and of the so-called 200 of them in partnership with the municipalities — are the result of our boldness, as well as the generosity of the municipalities to do many of these works. The regulations in force are being complied with, both with regard to removal of asbestos and with regard to all safety issues. With regard to polyurethane, I and all those who study science, I and all those who study biomedical sciences understand something very clear, Mr. Member: water can also be a poison. If we give any human being 10 l of water only once, I can tell you something unequivocal: this human being will suffer a water poisoning. The International Agency for Cancer Research of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) has polyurethane classified in group III, so there is no indication that it has cancer properties. Their carcinogenicity is not indicated as worrying. I have here the list, which I can provide to Mr Deputy. I know that in our schools we need to be careful and, above all, to be careful about the social alarm. Currently, polyurethane is also used in sandwich panels, which are at the safety levels of the tightest in our society. We need to make this absolutely clear. On the question of vocational education, put by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, thanking once again for bringing this discussion, I want to tell you, firstly, and unequivocally, that I expected you to bring here more Deolinda than the Trovants, because it clearly does not seem that the Member is older than I do. But I can tell you something, doing an analogy with the thermometer and the fever. Mrs. Member, it's not because we use the thermometer that we stop having a fever and it's not because we use the thermometer that the fever is going to fall. That's all right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from the CDS-PP MP Ana Rita Bessa.]] It is true that using the thermometer does not cause us to have a fever, but it is not because of its use that we no longer have a fever, just as it is not because we have tests that we no longer have a school failure. We all know—and we have talked about that dozens of times—how many countries within the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) who were, together with Portugal, having examined 4. year and year 6. year. They were not 20, they were not 15, they were not 5, not even half, they were 2. That was the number of countries we wanted to compare with. And is that the company that Portugal wants for its education, that of these two OECD countries? Oh, my God! For a long time the middleman has been behind us, we now have new tools to analyze our school. Tools, these, which are used in an absolutely exemplary way: RIPA, REPA, everything that comes to our school to give reliable information to educational communities, parents, children, so that we can understand whether we have success or failure and, in case of failure, how we can fight it. As far as vocational education is concerned, I want to tell you clearly that when the previous government thought about Portugal 2020, it remained for Portugal 2017. In 2017, we were virtually extinguishing all the funds from Portugal 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u75	They weren't paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u76	We are currently also working on adult education and teaching so that reprogramming will respond. But contrary to what happened, we are now planning for three years with our partners from private professional schools, and we continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] As far as public school is concerned, everything I have said, that payments are going to be made, has been made, which we have devoted ourselves to in 8. the Commission, where we have talked about all these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u77	They didn't solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u78	But I want to say something else: with regard to public schools, payment has been made for this year with the money remaining from the Community funds, and we know that we are now working on reprogramming. In order to continue the cycle of this Community framework, we can pay schools, through Community funds, the important social action in school, we are in the process, and also pay all consumables. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Regarding questions related to the payment of teacher salaries, I want to ensure that it will be ensured by the 2018 State Budget and everything will follow its course, also in this growing appreciation that we have of vocational education. With regard to the other questions raised, I would like to say to the PSD that there is nothing that scares us about the alleged freezing or widespread cut of funds at national level. Everything is planned and happening as planned. I also want to tell you that every time a group of schools requires the Ministry of Education to strengthen the budget, it is analyzed because, of course, an estimate is made at the beginning, by the relative expenditure of the previous year, by the variation / attempt of the number of students. We are examining and, whenever required, we respond accordingly. Regarding the digital agenda for school success, it is also happening. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to hear in the INCoDe.2030, an initiative of this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u79	By 2030? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u80	Yes, 2030, because we need to think about the future, we need to think beyond the legislature, Mr. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] This initiative is not solely the Ministry of Education. Administrative Modernization, Higher Education, Public Administration, finally, the whole government is involved in this effort so that we can truly include it in the digital agenda. in the flexibility and curriculum autonomy, we have information and communication technologies as one of our priorities, since the former government has removed all the acuity...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u81	Zero investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u82	Mr President, what you are saying is a lie, because in this matter investment is not zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u83	It's zero, it's zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u84	We are also working for the production of digital resources. As for the André de Gouveia High School, the question posed by Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is a matter of concern. As you will know, this is one of the schools that were in Portugal 2020 and was mapped with more than EUR 2, EUR 3 million. We have opened talks with Mr President of the House, who, curiously, today—I have this information—he has already said that he is available to continue the dialogue with the Ministry of Education so that we can really get these funds, EUR 2, EUR 3 million... Not all the money the school needs, but it is a significant part to improve it. As I was saying, Mr. President of the Chamber of Évora was meeting in the Ministry of Education and today he showed willingness to continue the dialogue with the Ministry of Education. I can say openly here to Mr. President of the House that together we are going to make that school re-qualified. The map provides for the investment of DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) — an immediate investment rather than that investment — an amount of €70 000 to solve the problems that currently exist in that school. I would also like to point out that, for the information we have, there is no shortage of operational assistants and the legal ratio existing at that school is being met, even if there is a need for some operational assistants, for occasional casualties of some of their employees. Mr. Luís Monteiro wanted to answer that reprogramming will also positively affect adult education. With regard to artistic education, when I said that it was important to address the difficulties that existed in vocational education, let me self-correct myself and say that these difficulties existed not only in vocational education but also in artistic education. Soon we will have a solution to this issue, which we have been discussing so many times in the Commission. I would also like to point out that, by means of the extraordinary linkage, teachers of Music and Dance, teachers of artistic schools — in fact, Mr Deputy studied one of these schools in the city of Porto — they will also have the opportunity for the first time to see their situation regularized. Mrs Ana Mesquita, who spoke of the André de Gouveia High School and the earthquake of land we lived two days ago, I want to tell you that we had an absolutely fantastic reaction at the Arraiolos High School. One of the education initiatives for citizenship Earth Treme has proved impeccable for that educational community to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u85	Luckily there were operational assistants there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u86	Fortunately, there were operational assistants there and so it is so important that they can give an answer. Mrs Ana Mesquita said that it doesn't matter just to list all the reinforcement we've done, but I think it's important that we do it to tell where we're coming from. So we came from a situation in which we had 3000 operational assistants with an employment-inclusion contract, which we turned into a term contract. All of these contracts have been renewed and will be able to be covered by PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Bonds in Public Administration ), which is very important in this effort of the Government of Depreciation. In turn, we hired 300 new operational assistants, 250 last year, all of them placed in our schools, and we changed the portfolio of ratios with two privileged approaches: on the one hand, the reinforcement in pre-school, as I said in the initial intervention, so that we could have, already next year, an operational assistant per room and, on the other hand, in the case of students with special educational needs, the class reducers and the non-trainers, the increase in 50%, counting as if they were 1, 5 students. in this sense, all authorizations have already been given — some that municipalities had to hire are already coming to schools, many of which had to be hired by the direct competences of the Ministry of Education are also reaching schools, and this is an ongoing process. The truth is, at the end of this year, we will have more than 2550 operational assistants than we had when we started the legislature and we will certainly have a significant number of those two thousand nine hundred and such precariouss, passed the stable in the Public Administration. This is something that they believe concerns both this guardianship and the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u87	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, before addressing my questions to Mr Minister, I cannot fail to mention in this debate whether the CDS, or the PSD are seeking to do here a whitening operation on their real responsibilities in the education situation,... [[PSD protests.]] ... when they come today to talk about problems that, at the time of the PSD and the CDS in the government, they deliberately ignored. More than that: they didn't just ignore how they got worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u89	It's the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u90	when hearing Mrs Ana Rita Bessa talk about the concerns about the educational success of students and the quality of public school, I can not fail to mention what your program and your great measure of vocational education was, segregating children and young people so early from access to the highest levels of knowledge, placing them soon as part of society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u92	... withdrawing their right to equality with regard to access to education, with solutions that only devalued them. Mr Minister, I am bringing you questions relating to investment. Investment in public school is fundamental. The Minister referred to the action of the Government, but we cannot fail to say that it is not right, it is not correct, I would say that until it is unacceptable for the Government to transfer to the authorities responsibilities that are not theirs. We are referring in particular to the pressure being made to the authorities to assume responsibilities and responsibilities in the conduct of works in schools which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, particularly in schools of the 2. o is 3. cycles and secondary education. This is a bad warning for the purpose of the transfer of powers that the Government wants to make to the authorities, because it seems that what is on the table is in fact a transfer of charges rather than a real process of decentralization. It is necessary for the Government to assume its responsibilities in this area and not then to make the municipalities responsible for the works which are the responsibility of the government and which are not being done. I would also like the Minister to be able to develop the reference in his speech to reducing the number of pupils per class and the need for investment in preschool. These are priority issues for the CFP, resulting from the intervention and proposals of the CFP, which are also reflected in the rules of the State budget for 2018. It was also important in this context, Minister, that there should be more replies from the Government, so that we could go further in achieving the objectives we have set for these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u93	You now have the floor, also to ask for clarifications, Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you all. Mr Minister, on Monday I was in the Group of Afonso de Paiva Schools in Castelo Branco, where I could see the financial asphyxiation to which this government is submitting. This grouping had in 2015 with the previous PSD / CDS government more money than the one the left-wing government has been giving it. If Mr. Minister wants to, I have the documents here. If Mr. Minister and the left guys love public school so much, why are they taking it off? Why don't you give this grouping the same money as the previous government gave it to you? Why did you cut this grouping more than 10 % of your budget? Why do study visits now have to be paid by the students? Mr. Minister, there are mechatronic projects in this Group that are not made for lack of money for materials. They love public school so much, why are they treating it worse than the previous government? I would now like to tell you about the vocational courses, which are not being paid by the Budget, but with European funds. The problem is that more than 90 % of the funds are spent and there are still three years left for Portugal 2020 to finish. in the former government, with the troika, we managed to get the State budget to finance artistic education, withdrawing it from the dependence of Community funds. This government did the opposite: it decreased 4 % of the funding of vocational education in 2016 and, from 2015 to 2018, reduced by 6 % the budget for the education and training of young people. They're numbers, there's no denying them! If this government does not solve the problem, it will not be possible to open classes of 1. the year in professional education for the triennium 2018 - 2021. Mr Minister, are you going to make your obligation or will you continue with the apology of the bad payer? For almost three years now, he has been a minister, and the left ones have been ruling, so it is time to start solving the problems and you will end the soft talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u95	Soft talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u96	Guarantee or not that there will be money for professional courses from 2018? The problems are true, showing that he is a true minister. Will you or will you not solve them? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u97	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP today brings up a topic which has not so far been addressed by any parliamentary group in this plenary session and which did not deserve even the reference of the parliamentary group that held this debate, which did not have a single sentence for the issues of special education in our country. But the PCP will be here to put the problems and to effectively do this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u100	We realize that the CDS does not want to talk about it, because CDS and PSD have deep responsibilities in deepening the problems of special education.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u102	In addition to the cuts they made, every time that increased the number of students with special educational needs decreased the number of special education teachers to accompany these students. In addition, it is of its own authorship a door that removed students from school 10. the 12th. the years, in a significant action of segregation and discrimination of these young people and a deep educational retreat. So we realize that the CDS does not want to bring the discussion to special education. But, Minister, we have brought this subject to debate, with deep concern about the current situation in our schools. We know the work being done in the context of the revision of Decree-Law No 3/2008 and the document that was available for public assessment, but we also know the problems that persist in special education in schools, with serious consequences for children and young people with special educational needs. This means, Minister, that it is more than time for the government to take concrete measures that meet the needs of these children and young people. On a proposal from the CFP, the State budget contains a standard that determines that the Government will draw up a plan to strengthen the human, material and pedagogical resources involved in special education, with measures scheduled for implementation in all public educational institutions, in order to ensure an effective response to all children and young people with special educational needs. Mr Minister, so far, what has already been done so that this rule can be effectively implemented? I would also like to address another issue which has not been mentioned by any parliamentary group, which deals with the specialized technicians. The CFP has intervened several times on this matter and on the need to guarantee the rights of these workers, ending the instability and precariousness that continue to persist. Proposals from the CFP were also adopted in this area in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular as regards the need to link these workers and to establish specific recruitment groups for specialized technicians who perform teaching functions. Mr Minister, these are matters that effectively need concrete intervention. It is not possible to postpone measures in the area of special education or in the response to specialist technicians. I therefore ask what the Government has planned to do to comply with these proposals from the CFP which have been approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u103	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, the usual strategy of the Minister and the Government on education would result in the first months of government or would say that it was acceptable in the first year of government. The Minister here lends himself a role to make only opposition to the previous government, but we are discussing, in this current debate, education policies of this government, and the Minister is not a shadow minister of the government, he is not the shadow minister of the opposition and he is not a candidate for the minister either. You are the Minister of Education. The Minister only talks about the past, talks about intentions for the future and tries to entertain us with this rhetoric, but the Minister does not rule at present and his governance problem is at present. We think it is very good for you to be careful about the future, but we demand that you make reforms in the present and give conditions to schools, teachers and families in order to have a quality education. What we have seen is that, despite the end of austerity, schools today have less financial resources for their improvement and to ensure the national education service. Today, there are fewer operational assistants to be hired for schools, because, despite the end of austerity, Mr Minister only renews the existing contracts and few contracts to meet the needs. Mr. Minister announces he's going to hire, but he's not hiring. Mr. Minister promises the teachers that he will make career progress, and after all, he does not. Mr. Minister says he'll offer the manuals for free, but then he won't pay. Mr. Minister said he would increase vocational education, but then he would not pay students or schools. We are in January 2018 and until today, the students of the professional enino have received zero euros, and the blame is not for Brussels, the blame is for this government, which has a duty to carry out its responsibilities. Mr Minister, I cannot help but wonder also about the monumental mistake that has to do with the ban on students over 18 years of age who are able to participate in school sports. Students over 18 are furnished with access to school sports, and that makes no sense. Mr Minister, we have seen here more and more — and it is not only in your area, but today it is also in your area — that the PCP and BE have tried to disguise the uncomfortable by criticizing the previous government, but then they are beginning to clear, criticise, to draw attention to everything that the PSD and the CDS have been drawing attention over the past two years. This is a sign that the Government no longer has parliamentary left-wing support for the area of education. Mr. Minister is tired of undoing: Mr. Minister dismisses the evaluation, Mr. Minister fulfils the requirement, Mr. Minister undoes the reforms he has found. I see him undoing, but I don't see him doing anything. The rhetoric of destroying what you've found is no longer glued. The Minister has to govern the present and give answers today about the requirement that is necessary and on quality. No more announcements, no more proclamations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u105	To respond to the various requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u106	Mr President, on the various questions that have been raised, and starting with Mrs Paula Santos' question from the CFP, I would like to make it clear that she has never said that we — this is very clear and I would like to say here — impose on the municipalities that they are doing the works that we have responsibility for, I repeat, that we have responsibility. The municipalities are our partners. More: we have municipalities all over the political quadrant — they know – in the parliamentary groups that have autonomous responsibilities – some came to the Ministry of Education, in other chaos it was the Ministry that had access to these municipalities to contract these partnerships. I would like to say again that what municipalities are doing is generously entering this great effort so that many of our works can be done. It's an extended set of works.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u107	Pay the municipalities!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u108	As has often been said, what happened was that we found, uniquely and simply, an Excel sheet with a mapping with pacts not signed in a significant part of the country, throughout the Alentejo, those pacts that are now being resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u109	We paid the calle!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u110	On the other hand, an extended set of interventions was interrupted, particularly interventions that we resumed, such as the Standard of the League, of Ponte de Lima, of the two schools on the south bank that we talked about so many times and which we now see reactivated, which were being done by the School Park. I want to say again that the municipalities are our partners and, in the specific case of Évora, what we want is to find a partner in the City Council to solve the problem that we have identified and to be able to use these funds from the Community. Regarding the number of students per class, we have work to do, this issue was included in the State Budget, we have already done an important job last year in the Educational Areas of Priority Intervention, where we know that it was a priority that the number of students per class decreased. It is important that we continue to do this work and, soon, we also have a resolution on this reduction in the number of students per class, which was registered in the State Budget for 2018. with regard to pre-school education, which is a bet for us, I want to tell you that we have opened 170 new rooms in the last two years, we have registered in the Government Programme, which was approved in this House, universalization at the age of 3. Moreover, in most of the national territory, in almost 90% of the municipalities, this objective has already been achieved. in peri-urban areas, especially in Lisbon, we continue to have some difficulties. in some municipalities, however, universalization at the age of 4 was achieved, and it is our objective to continue this effort to have a real universalization of preschool at the age of 3 because we know that this is an important prescriber of school success. in this effort of appreciation of professionals, educators of childhood, we did, on the one hand—as well remembered— the articulation with the schedules and with the school calendar of 1. the cycle and, on the other hand, we launched the curriculum guidelines of pre-school education, in which we could also launch the broad training program for these professionals. I would like to tell Mr Álvaro Batista that he very likely confused the school social action order of our government with the school social action order of the previous government, because there is something absolutely fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u111	I went there!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u112	There are three questions that are innovative, which are new in this school social action office: on the one hand, study visits, which were paid back to all students of the school social action. Do you know what happened in the previous government? Since the visits were not paid, school directors, class directors, all those who wanted to encourage educational curricular activities outside the classroom, outside the school, interrupted, because if those who did not have the economic possibilities of doing did not have the aid they were entitled to nothing happened. With regard to school textbooks, we have already had this discussion in the State budget and often in the Commission's office. The new step helps you acquire from so many students of the 2. o is 3. the cycles, but curiously, the office of social action school does not help students of 1. the cycle. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because this government gives them all free of charge, regardless of whether or not they benefit from school social action, and that is important. On the other hand, I do not know if you have already had the opportunity to go to a school that is TEIP(priority intervention educational territory). in these territories, which are also a priority for us, there are important school meals. I very much note that it recognises part of the evil that the previous government has done to our students of social action at school and I am also surprised at the form of parallel reality in which it lives right now. Of course, it should go more often to schools to understand the great changes that are taking place in school social action. On the issues raised by Mrs Diana Ferreira on operational assistants and inclusive education, I would like to say that we must continue to work on this subject. at the level of Decree-Law No. 3 / 2008, there is a working group that is working. Civil society, academics, all those who are beneficiaries have, over these more than two years, worked so that we have a different answer because science, particularly the sciences of education, has also evolved in this field. I would also like to say, for example, that this increase of 50%, when we quantify operational assistants, is very important. With regard to specialized technicians, I want to tell you the following: on the one hand, and because I have already spoken here about PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme of precarious links in the Public Administration ), all those who constitute permanent needs...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u113	Mr Minister, attention to time, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u114	Mr President, I will now conclude. As I said, all those who constitute permanent needs will undoubtedly be integrated by PREVPAP. Do you remember what happened early in the year? Usually, we had a cross-section of many of these specialized technicians in which the contests were launched and in mid-November, sometimes later, they arrived at schools. More than 60 % of them, all those for whom we had legal support to do so, on September 1 could be automatically renewed when the own and the grouping showed willingness for this to happen, and this was a real revolution because it made many Portuguese-language interpreters...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u115	Mr. Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u116	... could see their contracts renewed on 1 September, did the same with many psychologists and, above all, made children, young people, families and educational communities benefit from the important measure that we implemented at the beginning of this school year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u117	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u118	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u119	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to hand over to the Minister a document which was delivered to me by the Group of Amato Lusitano Schools, when I was there on Monday, and which shows the reduction of its budget. I went to schools, and since Mr Minister was unable to see the reality of this school and take action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u120	Mr President, I have already said what is the subject matter of the request, so it does not need any other basis. I would ask you to send the document to the Bureau for distribution. For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are in the middle of the legislature, that is, we are in the middle of the road, and the middle of the road is no destination for anyone, it is an equidistant point between departure and arrival, and that is why it is important to know where we came from and where we are going to figure out what path we have to go. Where did we come from? What was the state of education in 2015? We remember that in two years since he arrived in the government, Nuno Crato introduced early examinations where there was no, he did a curriculum revolution that — and I quote — « for the first time in the history of public democratic school made basic education lose the character of comprehensive preparation for the exercise of citizenship through the excessive weight of so-called structural disciplines». He also introduced new programs for basic disciplines, new programs for secondary disciplines that had been approved recently and a Mathematics program that was described as a program between the 60s and 80s. He also introduced a vocational route without pedagogical output for 13-year-old students, introduced mega-groupings, mega-hours, mega-burocracy, megaturms. The result of these gross changes in the teaching system was maximum levels of retention for a decade, i.e., failure at school. That requirement that the PSD and CDS spoke, that requirement that Nuno Crato spoke was, after all, an elite selection, much more appropriate to the diversion of funds that the right party wanted to make and preview in its electoral programme in relation to the extension of association contracts than appropriate to an inclusive school. Former Minister Nuno Crato didn't even try to hide that schools should be training centers to compete for results in exams and, therefore, he awarded in competition the schools that left the others behind, the schools that left students behind and offered to schools more teachers when they had better exams. To the question of whether we have advanced in relation to this state of education the answer is: yes, we have fully advanced in relation to the state of education that we had in 2015, but the state of education in 2017 and in 2018 still has many symptoms of the treatment of shock to which it was submitted. It has unacceptable retention levels, far above the European average and very early, and that is why we need to rethink the role of retention in student learning. There are too many methods of teaching that are only useful to the obsession of the system with exams, which is, in fact, inconsistent with the new methods of teaching and evaluation that have been introduced into higher education. While in higher education they fight the excessive weight of exams they were introduced in force and force in basic and secondary education. The consequence is that six out of ten students pay private classes, pay private explanations to get through the math exam, and this is what the CDS considers a demanding school. It is a school where 60% of students who have money to pay to explainors can overcome the math exam. Those who do not have the money to pay explanations will not be able to pass an examination of a program that is completely absurd, they will not be able to succeed at school. What is even more absurd is that in the European country where, at absolute and proportional levels, more hours have been taught in Mathematics the fact that 60 % of students have to resort to explanations do not make bells sound in nobody's head... [[Do it! Do it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u122	... and the campaign that has to sound is that there are no programmes, Mr Minister — and I insist on this — of curriculum flexibility that resists the formatting of the system imposed by inadequate programmes, inadequate targets and the excessive weight of examinations. The curriculum imposed by Nuno Crato is a poor curriculum, which has to be changed, and what we have to ask is whether this is the school we want. All the data, including that which Mrs Anne Rita Bessa quoted, indicate that the education system favours those who have favourable socio-economic conditions at the start. All data indicate that vocational education is a way for those students who have worse performances—including it is in the report on the state of education of 2016. This continues to be the preferred way for students with worse performances, that — coincidence! — they are students with more unfavourable socio-economic conditions at the beginning. That is why we have to ask: is this the professional school we want for more than 50% of the students? Is it with the financial asphyxiation of vocational education that we will value vocational education so that he does not have this profile of students? What sign does the government want to give to vocational education? There is another worrying fact in the state of education in 2017 and 2018: teachers work more than the European average and feel less recognized than the European average of teachers. Mr Minister, after tomorrow they will start negotiations with the unions representing the teachers. The Government has made commitments to public school, has made commitments to teachers, has made commitments to the Left Block and has made commitments to Parliament in relation to careers, in relation to the repositioning of teachers who are arrested in 1. the step, in relation to the vacancies that need to be opened, and with stability to the future, from transition to the 5. a is 7. the steps and relative to the counting of the time of service. What we want to know is whether the Minister guarantees that these commitments will be those, which will be the Statute of the Teacher Career that will guide the discussion on careers and replacement and full counting of service time and that there are no ad hoc careers for teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u124	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality has shown us that, beyond the speeches, the CDS does not want to know about any...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u125	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u126	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the CDS does not want to know any of these concerns that affect the teaching system today. What the CDS wants to know is what day the rankings go out, because that's what enthusiasts the right. The right one grabs the exams, grabs the notes contests, grabs his inheritance, grabs the school to select. The right doesn't want an education minister, the right what you want is a national education selector, that's what the right wants to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u127	Madam Member, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u128	I'm done now, Mr. President. The project, on this side, is another: in the Left Block we are excited about education, in capitals, and everything it takes in — an inclusive democratic education for progress. What we want to know, Minister, is if we're going to stay in the middle of the road. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u129	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As long as The Greens have taken the defense of a public and quality school by a democratic, plural and incisive teaching as an essential condition not only to ensure the universal and constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right to education, but also to recognize in education the first and last condition of sustainable development and to preserve, in the future, a more just and supportive world. For this reason we have always condemned the de-investment that has been made in public school over the years, and here it should be noted that it was with particular incidence during the period of the PSD/CDS government. It is important that this element be present in the discussion, because it was this disinvestment that led us to this point where there is a shortage of resources at the level of education, leading to a multitude of problems in public schools and teachers working in them, which are thus seen to be disrespected and devalued in their role in building a democratic society. We remember that according to OECD, the dignity of teachers, particularly through wage valuation, is a factor that contributes to the improvement of education and educational success. It was also on the basis of this finding that the Greens proposed, and this House approved, in December last year, a legislative initiative for the Government, in dialogue with the unions, to ensure that, in careers whose progression also depends on the length of service provided, it would be counted all that time for the purpose of career progression and the corresponding value for pay. Now, in order to give up the full count of the time of service, which teachers have been frozen, it is necessary to reposition teachers in their career. We have now received information that this process is not following its normal development, since the proposal for a portary submitted by the Government to materialize this purpose deserved the disagreement of all trade union organizations of teachers. As an example, we have the situation of teachers who since 2011 have entered the Integrated Tables 1. the step, regardless of the time of exercise of the teaching function under contract, and where they have remained, to which the proper replacement in career with natural consequences in terms of remuneration losses is not applied. In addition, this portfolio, submitted by the Government, introduces requirements that have never been applied to teachers under the same conditions until 2011. It is in this context that it is appropriate to remember that these teachers have already been fairly penalized in all the years that remained in 1. the career step, receiving exactly the same as the hired teachers and having effectively lost part of the order to which they were entitled. More: the fact that the years of service rendered without professionalization are not accounted for, and the government's intentions are realized in accordance with the proposed known portaria, leads to the fact that these teachers have even greater losses of service time and that inequalities between peers are accentuated. However, since this was a matter of commitment between the Government and the trade union structures which signed a declaration of commitment, in which this matter was actually envisaged, I was interested to know, Mr Minister, what is the real intention of the government in relation to these professionals. We hope that, during this debate, whether it is in the intervention of closure, we will have answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u131	Also for an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u132	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Unfortunately, this government and the Ministry of Education have not proved reliable or reliable. With due respect, I would like to say that Mr Education Minister has been a real disappointment to me personally and to the teachers who have repeatedly expressed it to my Parliamentary Group. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u133	It would be hoped that the Minister of Education, who is a scientist, would guide his performance by rigour and demand it from his team in form and content. Incoherence, tremors, omissions and failure to assume responsibility for failures in various aspects have led to enormous instability in schools, in which students, teachers, employees, directors and their families are necessarily included. I am referring to a recent example, and I say 'new' because this government systematically tends to talk about the past, but never about its past, to justify the government's bad decisions, more specifically with regard to teachers, ensuring the stable and dignified functioning of the public school. in the last regiment hearing, the CDS raised, once again, the still pending issue of the internal mobility contest that the Ministry intends to resolve through a preliminary draft decree-law already known. We will repeat at the time and insist now: this decree does not aim to resolve the vicissitudes of the competition, but to consolidate the effects of the administrative decision that gave rise to the challenge of teachers. In this regard, the Under-Secretary of State and Education, among other inaccuracies and shortcomings in the truth, said that— and I quote: « preference has been met in terms of places rather than schedules» ; « in terms of the legislation in force, a framework of the pedagogical area is necessarily in a school of the framework where it has been linked »; « no competitions for all », etc. There is no time to dismantle these statements, which would be easy, but before another statement also made by the Secretary of State — 'the administrative decision was justified by the use of resources' — it is necessary to ask: why has this procedure not been maintained in the previous and subsequent stages of the competition? Why have several teachers in the group and school framework, as well as in the teaching area after 25 August, been placed in the recruitment reserves and annual incomplete hours when the right to do so was mentioned to their colleagues placed on 25 August? Please do not respond by saying that there is no right to partial work. It just doesn't apply and it's not the case. In fact, what exists is half a day's work, for which there are own and well-defined requirements. The Secretary of State also said that the number of teachers affected in the internal mobility contest is residual. Well, if it's residual, it's because you know how many they are. Thus, I ask: why has the Ministry of Education not yet disclosed the exact number of hierarchical resources raised following the invitation to tender? If they're so wasteful, you sure know the answer. How many are there, after all? Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, being a teacher is not just a profession, it is a mission. A teacher makes a country with knowledge, is a builder of the country and of the future that are our young people. The report of the National Council for Education (NCE) recognizes high teachers qualification and training, their dedication to students and their concern for their success. But let us not forget that this success also depends on the students themselves, who are the critical mass, and never only on the performance of teachers, their competence and their scientific and pedagogical preparation. Mr Minister, I have already had the opportunity to tell you, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, that teachers tell that guardianship contributes to the appreciation and recognition of their scientific-pedagogical competence, their professional course of merit and the tireless activity they develop in school and in the community. What does the CDS want with regard to teachers? That the Ministry which protects them does not fail them, that it fulfils the commitments it signed on 18 November last on repositioning and that it has defined as a responsible, financially sustainable model and that it will allow the necessary social peace to schools and also value the class of teachers — words of its Secretary of State, Minister. According to news, negotiations on the basis of these commitments have been called farsighted. The intention is to make it difficult, with unacceptable obstacles, to repositioning and progress in teachers' career. Considering what we have already stated, at the beginning of this speech, as regards the minimum requirement of a Minister of Education and his team, which is to be reliable and reliable, let me, Mr Minister, remind you of his statement that he was radically defending teachers: "It is time to do so! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I also use it to replicate your statement today: « If it is to happen, let it be now». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u134	Also for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in the last two years, in Portugal, there has been a reduction in the number of people — 360 000 — who were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which means that about 500 people daily have emerged from the risk of poverty or social exclusion in our country. Start this intervention by referring to such data, which mirror a positive evolution towards the country we inherited, a severely impoverished country. And we all know how economic and social problems are reflected in the school and the school success of our children and young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 2016 National Council of Education Report supports this issue precisely by stating that « the results of students in Portugal depend on the socio-economic level of their family aggregate more than is normal in the OECD average ». For this reason, we are committed to the stability of the relevant public policies, which have put the country on a path of sustainable growth, creating more and better jobs, as well as continuing the recovery of family income, deepening justice in its distribution and reducing inequalities. Contrary to the policy of the right to de-investment and decapitalisation of public services, the current government has been strengthening the social state and public services. from there it continues daily with the reconstitution and consolidation of the public school, a sector so martyred and it was target of blind cuts beyond the troika of the past. Public employment is growing — we have extraordinarily linked more than 3,500 teachers and more than 3000 are also in the process of being linked — we have expanded coverage levels in collaboration with the authorities, with works in more than 500 schools, works already completed, running or starting soon, diversifying the offers and qualifying the answers. We have been successively strengthening school social action—it is really politics, it is happening! — an effective fight against poverty and inversion of the perpetuation of inequalities, with the pioneering allocation of school textbooks in 1. the cycle, covering 370,000 students, the creation of a 3. the scale of support for school manuals of the 2. o is 3. the teaching cycles, with the extension of school meals services during school breaks and the resumption of study visits. The quality of the education ecosystem and the strengthening of equity in education at all ages are central to the government and the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] thus, we will continue the extension of the network of coverage of pre-school education aimed at its universal coverage, having already been opened in two years, about 170 new rooms, in addition to ensuring the expansion of vocational education, with new courses and vacancies, which reached 11 000 students. It's being done, and well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a strong bet on adult education, so despised by the previous government: there is a duplication of the number of students enrolled by 2015 ; the number of centres will reach 303, a bet identified yesterday by Maria Brederode dos Santos, President of the CNE ( National Council for Education ), in the Education Commission, as an important challenge and imperative to overcome the deficit of qualified adults. Mr President, in a country with a culture of persistent retention and early repetition, in which about 30 % of students aged 15 are out of date from their school year of reference, it is urgent to fight failure anyway, overcome their causes and put innovation, essential learning and new teaching models in the DNA of our schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has been the case with this government. The National School Success Promotion Program, by putting the school at the heart of the decision, is making its way and the accession of 663 schools to this program is demonstrating its quality and need. And it is not said that the Programme is little, that it is not the right answer, necessary or sufficient, as the CDS says, because schools have made the diagnosis and traced their plans for action to combat school failure, acting preventively on the basis of permanent monitoring and mobilizing existing resources in a strategic way. Higher education institutions and training centres are working in partnership with schools, as well as the mission structure of this Programme, which does so permanently. The proof of the added value of this Program is the significant improvement of the results obtained by the schools that joined the Program last year. in fact, as a result of the policies of the previous government, which devalued the National Reading Plan, the PIRLS 2016 (Progress in International Reading Literacy Study) showed a decrease in the literacy of Portuguese students. however, last year, schools, aware of their reality and the effect of the measures introduced by Minister Crato, had already registered specific measures for the first years of schooling to improve reading skills, which will involve 8000 teachers and 400 training actions. We are also aware that the school reports and individual reports relating to measurement tests, which have been taken seriously by teachers and students, are an important monitoring tool, in particular 2. the year, which schools are using with great efficiency in combating school failure. It should be noted that a recent study, conducted by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics, on the indicators of the 2016/2017 final tests and exams gives us an account of the increase in the percentage of direct courses of success among the students of the 3. the cycle of basic education and among high school students. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility is an important paradigm change that is anchored in the motivation of the valorization of schools and teachers as curriculum development agents and will be determining to achieve relevant and significant learnings for all students. The successful citizen is knowledgeable, but is also capable of integrating knowledge, solving problems, mastering different scientific languages, being autonomous, cooperating, having artistic and aesthetic sensitivity and active concern with individual and collective well-being. Thus, it was of the utmost importance to build the profile of the student at the exit of compulsory education, as a common matrix for all schools, structured in principles, views, values and cross-sectional competences. As Laborinho Lucio pointed out in a recent initiative pointing out the Profile Day of the Students, "this document requires a commitment on our part to include all students and each one in particular". Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PS, the right to education is not a hollow right which is proclaimed, but which instead is densified in daily action and consequent investment, knowing how to listen, marking presence on the ground and negotiating with the unions, seeking just, proportionate and sustainable solutions. Therefore, the investment in the appreciation and continuous training of teachers and educational communities was cautioned by strengthening the hiring of non-teaching staff and the fair replacement of teachers' incomes, which, from this year onwards, will have their careers frozen, which will allow the progression of 46 000 teachers from now on. It is a school of citizens that we are building listening to the voice of students, promoting the participatory budget (OP ) in schools and implementing an education strategy for citizenship. We know that the Portuguese have confidence in whom they honor their commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the Portuguese trust who makes April happen. We know that the Portuguese don't forget who April was not! The Portuguese hope for reforms in education that allow us to overcome the structural challenges and good public policies that build a 21st century school, inclusive, that aglutine, that integrates, that adds and differentiates, so that it is truly universal and promotes equal opportunities. That's our way. For this purpose we would like to have everyone, with all the benches, because politics, as Augustine of Silva said, must also be composition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u136	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: in education, « the king will be naked». When it comes to education, the "king will be naked" and only the left does not seem to want to see. This government does not have an education policy, but it does politics with education and this debate has shown that, blind to the reversals on the argument of the « yes», the blindness in relation to reality has now been followed. Students are not the priority for this minister. If they were, there would be no staff in schools two years ago. If they were, there would not be the scandalous case of a student who went out of school for a whole period due to the Minister's lack of response. If they were, schools would not be forced to cut in the heating of the rooms to be able to pay the bills by the end of the month. If the students were the priority, school sports regulations did not change, preventing the participation of some students. If the students were the priority, it did not change, to the flavor of the occasion and humors, the external evaluation. And if the students were the priority, the teachers wouldn't be mistaken. If the students were the priority, Minister, we would not have witnessed the rise in the early school dropout rate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, being a priority is not to lead, not to cover up, not to disguise, not to do propaganda actions or to encourage facilitation so that sympathetic statistics arise. More than two years later, it was found that students, who were subjected to final tests, had less and had more success in the evaluation tests. Is there work to be done? No doubt! But it is not with shortcuts, with ease that we will develop skills. Having students as a priority is, seriously and strictly, working to ensure that education and training are effectively a tool for them in the future to carry out their life projects. And that, unfortunately, is not happening. We're not moving forward, we're returning. We have been working on the external evaluation system. More than two years later, it is already clear that the end of the cycle tests was an error, that the alternate measurement tests and mid-cycles cannot replace the evaluation at the end of the cycle. But the minister, instead of recognizing the mistake of having abolished these evidence, insists, and this year again changes the external evaluation. Without meeting the individual student paths this year, changes the evaluation of Mathematics A, creating, contrary to what has always happened, a unique proof, which will also bring about problems of equity in access to higher education. However, fairness and rigour in external evaluation and access to higher education is not something that the Minister of Education is concerned about, as we saw in the proven fraud at the examination of Portuguese. Equity and justice are the last of their concerns. We saw him in the injustice he created in the teacher's internal mobility contest. We now see it again in the so-called negotiations on defrosting and recomposing teachers' careers. Mr. Minister cut off what he shouldn't, he takes it, but he doesn't do it, and he promises what he can't. in education, budget itself but not executed, announced but not done and, as it is not done, the problem is denied. They tell us after the education budget has increased. But, then, how do they explain the breakdown of investment in the requalification and maintenance of school buildings? How do they explain the systematic delay in paying for schools, families, booksellers? How do they explain the delays in competitions for the hiring of non-teachers in vocational education competitions? How do they explain the lack of physical and material conditions so that teachers and technicians can work? And while they make eloquent speeches on the use of new technologies, new methodologies in schools, as we have already mentioned, the technological park remains and becomes increasingly obsolete and there is no programme or plan for renewal. in education, delays and debts are timed according to the calendar year and never, but never, according to the needs of students. These are the facts. But what does our Minister of Education respond? That the directors lack the truth, that the teachers, who were deceived by him, are wrong, that there are no delays, that everything is not misunderstood. He says it's not the Minister of Education's fault. It says that responsibility is never yours, is that of the Minister of Finance, or that of the Minister of Planning, or that, when it is really afflicted, of the former Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u139	...and this is the alpha and omega to justify everything. It's enough! in education, Mrs. Members, « the king will be naked», and only the left does not want to see. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Something that characterized today's debate was the « blow to the air » by the PSD and the CDS regarding their responsibilities in the degradation of education during the last government. [[PSD protests.]] And we know why. We are well aware that students have doublely been penalized by their policy of attacking workers' rights and incomes, because it is clear from the recent data that there is a clear association between the fact that they belong to the socially more disadvantaged layers and greater school failure. Therefore, PSD and CDS impoverished public school, impoverished workers, impoverished their families and thus tried to impoverish the students' future and the future of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u143	however, they were locked. They have been stopped, and well in their action, in the last legislative elections. But, Minister, it must be said that the measures taken so far by this Government are still far from solving all the problems we have addressed here today. The public school, free of charge, of quality for all, ensuring that everyone has the same opportunities in access to education successfully in school, providing the training of the individual's integral culture in respect of workers' rights, requires urgent measures for which the CFP has proposals, which it has submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u144	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the CFP has proposals, and has presented them, in particular: the recruitment of all workers in need, be teachers, operational assistants, psychologists, specialized technicians; the existence of a broad and participatory process with a view to building a true curriculum reform; the implementation of the democratic management of schools; the development of measures to ensure the inclusion of students with special educational needs; the recovery of the school park which is degraded. All this without neglecting, before deepening, the policy of reintroduction of rights and incomes. For this break with the right-wing policy, practised by successive governments, they can count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u146	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a few minutes, I would like to say that the commitments made by the government with the trade union structures in November are being scrupulously fulfilled, those commitments that are necessary only because there is thawing. The problem is certainly not freezing. in this agreement it was determined that a wide, very broad set of negotiations would be launched which are under way—so it is being fulfilled: the approval of the door to the 5th. a is 7. the steps, which have already been negotiated; a negotiation on the concept of educational and non-formal component that is already marked; a set of meetings and discussion on the recovery of service time. The first has already been done, the second will be held very soon, as it was already combined at the last meeting in December. Finally, as regards the office of repositioning, I have to say the following: teachers who linked during the freezing period are being repositioned between 2011 and 2018. They are being repositioned, as is stated in the undertaking that they will be, in accordance with the current Staff Regulations of the Teacher Career. And what is contained in this portfolio, which is still under negotiation, are the terms of the current Statute of the Teacher Career, which means that, in the same way that for progression there is, for example, access to vacancies, for repositioning this must be taken into account. What is in the compromise—and with this ending—is that the replacement will take place under the current Statute of the Teacher Career, and this is the result of Decree-Law No 75 / 2010, which had the agreement of all trade union structures to date. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u148	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u149	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will address you as you have done this final intervention. The Secretary of State said that the agreement was being scrupulously fulfilled and that this agreement had been defrosted. I remind you that this thawing exists because there was previously a freezing that was done by the Government of the Socialist Party, many years ago. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u150	So, if you want to develop this novel, then we will develop it until the first hour, and the first hour it is up to a Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u151	At first it was the verb! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u152	The Secretary of State has already used us to take refuge, if I may say, in her legal solidity, that it is obviously strong, and that I will not answer in any way. It happens that the Secretary of State is not here in a role of jurist or in the simple and scrupulous role of contract fulfillment, it is in a political dimension and therefore, as Secretary of State, you have to look at the people who are guardians, in the case of teachers, and realize what is the best solution you want to give them. In this respect, Madam Secretary of State, there is no union structure, there is no teacher who does not inform the CDS Parliamentary Group that does not find in itself any long-term vision in the negotiations with it. Madam Secretary of State, but more than you will question, I urge you, instead of taking refuge in your role as a scrupulous jurist, to leave it, to assume as a policy and assume the responsibilities of what you are doing to the teaching class. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u153	She has the floor again to the Under-Secretary of State and Education for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u154	Mr President, Madam Member, I am grateful for your reference to legal certainty. As this is my training, I take it as a compliment. I have no problem with taking myself as a political one too, I cannot make decisions and approve illegal gates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the closing stage of this appeal to the Government. The time for intervention, for the CDS-PP and for the Government, is 6 minutes. In order to express the closing intervention of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u156	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: at the conclusion of this interpellation and this debate on education, I believe it is worth starting with saying that the reason for being our educational system is the students. One of the main things, if not the main and most important, that students can learn in the educational system is, above all, to think about their own head. And I remembered this about the following: at the end of the year, between October and December, it is customary or has been customary in recent years to publish the data that allow the information to be worked out and that several entities do the known and so-called « educational rankings ». For at the end of 2017, i.e. last year, there was a novelty in this area: these data have not yet been published and, in the end of 2017, a different document has been published, which is basically the Government's opinion on the data and the processing of these data by the Government. That is to say, when it comes to information, we will know about it by February, but even before we have the information, we already have here, ready to consume, the opinion that we should have on the information. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is called the'stalinization' of communication... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u157	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u158	...and also the antithesis of what the teaching system should be. It is that, if students should think from their own head, also, of course, we should all think from our own head. Therefore, for my part, I say to the Government : I am very grateful that they tell me what I should think, but I would rather they give me the data and let me draw the conclusions that they would allow me to draw. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, and also fundamental point: the CDS has brought here some facts that make us think, but they also call us to act. Fact one: retention rate No 2. the year is 9 %, which means that in each year more than 8,000 children of 7 years of age are not being taught, neither are reading nor writing, nor are they teaching them the rudiments of Mathematics. Is it worth looking at this? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u159	Welcome to the concern!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u160	Fact two: already at the end of 2. the cycle, at age 11, more than one in three students have at least one negative and about 7000 have three or more negative. Fact three: No 6. the year, 30% of students have negative mathematics and, if we consider the most disadvantaged, the percentage rises to 48%. This is a positive fact of four and, in this case, contrary to the previous one: we have recently learned that the percentage of students in 9. the year that, without lead in its course, had a positive note in the elementary school exams increased last school year to 46 %. They're students who entered the 7th. the year in the academic year 2014 / 2015, which took exams of 6. the year and that they learned from the curricular goals. The CDS brought these facts and thought it was worth meditating on. Instead, Mr Minister, in his speech, devoted himself, above all, to the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u161	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u162	The Prime Minister's first words, in fact, almost all his words are about the past, there are some about the present and the future almost never speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u163	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u164	This, Mr Minister, is of concern to any politician, but to the Minister of Education, who is the one that most affects our future, is particularly worrying. However, Mr Minister, in his speech, it was also surprising that he said what was best before 2015. And -- don't worry! — Mr President, in particular, he spoke of the budget. That is, when we have every week news of the lack of money in schools for the most fundamental things, the Minister thinks that everything is extraordinary; when we have the news about the fact that there is no money for heating in schools, he thinks that budgetary issues are running smoothly and well; when there is no money for the transfer of money to pay professional courses, he congratulates himself. Mr Minister, I already doubted that Mr Minister was against the requirement in the teaching system, but I already realized that it is, above all, against the requirement in assessing his own performance as Minister. But because this is the most important thing, it is worth leaving here the proposals we have brought. I heard the questions they asked us about this, although I know that they have very little interest in hearing our answers, but it was still vital that the government should consider some of the CDS proposals once and for all. First fundamental proposal: stability for six years in educational policies. Mr Minister, it is not possible to make reforms without stability. The CDS leaves this alert: what we hear most, whenever we talk to teachers, parents or students, is that there is no time for anything. The reforms are always changing, in fact, families with several children undergo numerous reforms. This can't be! And if we all think that this cannot be, now is the case to say, Minister: the time is now, it is not in the future! Now, it is time to create this stability for six years in educational policies! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[It's time to act!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u165	To conclude, I leave you two more proposals: organization of teaching cycles in only two and revision of the division of the school schedule, with a period of major holidays and with larger breaks throughout the school year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u166	You now have the floor, too, for the closing of the debate, Mr Education Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thought there had been great developments in these two years of government. We have seen Mrs Ana Rita Bessa make considerable progress in this debate. They certainly recall that first month of governance, in which she was insistently talking about rankings; today, Mrs Deputy spoke of internal notes and direct paths of success. Imagine!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u168	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u169	Unfortunately, we have had Mrs Cecilia Meireles here talking about rankings, with an acute Saudiism, I would say, then going to rescue the new data, giving them the importance and transparency due. The honourable Member speaks of a six-year stability, an important six-year stability. They recall that, when the former Government began its duties, the Minister of Education's name was x-acted. Crato rhymed with x-act, because the cuts with the past were absolutely sharp. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PPD / PSD accused us today of talking only about the future, unlike its partner of the Portugal Front coalition, the CDS-PP. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria today approached our parliamentary majority. He said, more than once, the word 'competence' — imagine it alone! — but I also said something absolutely exciting, which I will take in my heart and in my memory: 'Our Minister of Education'! Thank you very much, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u170	We're democrats!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u171	One year ago we asked simple questions to say, but very difficult to answer; one year ago we launched an extended discourse on what characteristics has a successful student and what competences develop throughout his 12 years of compulsory education. This week, at the beginning of the week, at the Champalimaud Foundation, we had an extended debate, and I wanted to thank some of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, for your presence. We invited the educational community to participate in this debate, which was able to bring us to good answers to these difficult questions. It is a debate that concerns us all, because this profile is valuable, not only because it did not exist before — and only this was an important reason for it to exist as it finally exists now — but also because the profile of students and students outside compulsory education needs to go further. This new profile, which has been approved, is a precious ally for us to take to another level the main fight we are fighting in education: the promotion of educational success, contrary to such fatality of high levels of school failure, which has prevented us, as Country, from going further. This failure at school, tolerated at the levels that Portugal has presented in a recent past, has done us all, as society, very bad. It has been extremely expensive and has largely prevented other prescribers and successful measures from achieving a result. When it is, it is important to fight for success with specific measures and built in each school. Yes, because the autonomy of schools must be respected, the autonomy of schools is important and should not be attacked, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the case of the National School Success Promotion Program, which, being structurally, reads and works with the very specific environment of each school, of each municipality or of each neighborhood of each of our cities, doing so from solid and structural foundations, such as the profile of the student. It is important to do so now and ask why? Oh, my God! — because no one has ever done it before! Our present must always be urgent and pressing and therefore it is important to change. It is today that we are living social and technological transformations that question us with questions whose answers we still do not know, because we have neither knowledge nor skills to know them. We know that everything we have passed must be read in two lights: on the one hand, that of the global interdependence of everything we do and, on the other hand, that of the imperative of everything that we do is sustainable, that we can be part of a process and, in an important way, have consequences. There is not, because there can be, simple answers in today's world, and even less will there be in tomorrow's world, when today we speak here in the future. However, as we know, and as the poet said, the way is going, one step after the other and never with steps that turn back on the path that cost everyone so much. This path now follows in the right direction—we believe—and we all hear more and more, being diverted by those who, instead of defending proposals, only live from noise and coal. You certainly remember, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament, of the noise about the supposed facilitation that the right always issues, what condemnation, of those who do not share the ideology that consecrates victory to the strongest, at the expense of all others, forgetting that it was often stronger, at the beginning, as Mrs Joana Mortagua said, a true national selector. Well, a week ago, we learned how noise does not upset the path we make. One week ago, we learned the results of the 2017 exams and tests, which prove that there were more students to take exams and tests in 2017 than before, that more students complete basic education and more students, including those who were previously abandoned to their fate in, as I said in my initial intervention, cynically called "vocational education", conclude compulsory education successfully, in the same teaching that exists for all their colleagues. Here too, nothing better than the reality to deny who dispenses it just so that the noise it emits is more strict. This noise does not survive, because reality is lying and because everyone can know this reality, just want to know it. We have therefore extended the democratic principle of transparency and accountability, contrary to what has been said here, by extending the educational indicators available to all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u172	You have reached the time limit you had, Minister. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, and not before, all citizens have access, at the distance of one click, to the results of each school in tests and exams, and in all cycles and teaching pathways, as they have access, even for the first time, to all fine data of vocational education. Because education for all concerns, we deserve respect for it, knowing what we are talking about, so that the political debate on education is at least as rich, involved and informed as the debate that citizens generously devote to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-01-17.u174	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on the appeal to the Government no. ( a). The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and the agenda contains several points. Thus, the first point is the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1038 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Council of Maction in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), 1041 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Oleiros, Vila Velha de Rodão, Castelo Branco and Proença-a-Nova in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), 1043 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Gavião and Nisa in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), 1227 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of forest management measures to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( CDS-PP ) and 1234 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the application of the contents of Ordinance No 321/2017 of 9 October to the other municipalities with significant areas burned in 2017 ( BE ). The second point is that of the general assessment of draft law No 720 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the arrangements applicable to the out-of-court collection of overdue claims and to undertakings engaged in such activity ( PS ). in the third point, we will generally consider draft law No 302 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — End of abusive geographical and functional mobility clauses ( BE ). The fourth point is the assessment of petition No 283 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the assignment of a name to Montijo airport other than that of Mário Soares ( Miguel Dias Melícias Vieira Lopes and others). The fifth point is the assessment of petition No 294 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request access to specialized medical training for all physicians ( Afonso Maria da Silva Moreira and others), together with the assessment of Bill No 733 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May 2015 establishing the legal regime of specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and laying down the general principles to which the respective procedure ( CFP ) should be followed, in general, and draft resolutions No 1232 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, open a speciality invitation to tender for all newly trained doctors, ensuring good conditions for training and the increase in the number of vacancies; that, under Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, ensure that training is awarded in all establishments meeting the requirements necessary for this purpose, in accordance with the proposal of the Medical Order, irrespective of the sector to which they belong; and that under Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, open vacancies for medical detention in all establishments with training qualifications ( CDS-PP ) and 1237 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to ensure specialized training for all physicians ( BE ). Finally, at the sixth point we shall proceed to the examination of petition No 300 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for measures to ensure equal working conditions among all teachers ( António Carlos Carvalho and others) together with draft resolution No 1236 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to regulate schedules, combat wear and improve working conditions of teachers ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
