ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. the next item is the 15th annual debate with the Prime Minister and the debate on the state of the Union. First, however, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to motions for resolution Nos 77 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Extradition Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, signed in Lisbon on 25 October 2017, which falls to 2. the Commission, 78 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Third Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, open for signature in Strasbourg on 10 November 2010 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 79 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition, open for signature in Vienna on 20 September 2012 which falls to 2. the Commission. Law No. 1004 / XIII / 4. a ( PS and BE ) — Integration of the parish of Milheiros de Poiares, of the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, in the municipality of São João da Madeira, 1007 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Access to the civil identity of donors of gametes by persons born as a result of treatments or procedures for assisted medicinal products and creation of a transitional standard for donations prior to 24 April 2018 ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 1008 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Extends the scope of the moratorium to clear situations without viable alternative ( first amendment to Law No 30 / 2018 of 16 July ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1009 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Regulates the Right to Association of Maritime Police Personnel ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February ), 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Access to information on the civil identification of donors in the context of assisted medical procreation processes which fall to 9. the Commission, 1012 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Amends the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme by strengthening family reception, promoting an effective policy of deinstitutionalization of children and young people, 1017 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the Civil Code, creating the successive indignity of those convicted of domestic violence or ill-treatment and 1018 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Care Implementation Scheme in order to create new rights in host families. Parliamentary assessment No 69 / XIII / 4 was also given to the Bureau. a ( BE) — Decree-Law No 71 / 2018 of 5 September adjusting classes 1 and 2 of vehicles for the purposes of applying toll rates per road kilometer and Resolution Projects No 1843 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently adopt a simplified procedure for supporting the victims of the fires of Monchique, Silves, Portimão and Odemira, which occurred in August 2018, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 1844 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that Fertagus be granted the end of the operation of the railway service in the North-South Axis and its integration into the CP suburban transport service, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1849 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to the Crown, Spain. Finally, Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XIII / 4 was submitted to the Bureau. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tankos. I also announced the withdrawal by the proposer of the draft resolution No 1705 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends the smoothing of immigration legalisation procedures and the promotion of the exceptional humanitarian framework of immigrants demonstrating the inclusion in the labour market for a period of more than one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the first item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on economics and employment. You have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 321,000 jobs. This is the total number of jobs created since the beginning of this legislature. An unquestionable success that results from two essential factors. First of all, trust. The new income policy, putting an end to a daily uncertainty and a climate of asphyxiation, was fundamental to the recovery of confidence, essential for the relaunch of companies' investment, growth generator and job creator. The improvement of income thus created a virtuous circle of confidence improvement, of investment increase, of more employment with better income, strengthening confidence, year after year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the new conditions for the investment of companies. I recall that we accelerated the implementation of incentive schemes for companies, launched the Capitalisation programme and implemented a set of tax measures to support investment and corporate capitalisation. If on the one hand Portugal 2020 ( PT 2020 ) has already supported EUR 9 billion in business investment, the Capitalisation lines granted credit of EUR 2900 million, with tax incentives for investment and capitalisation reached EUR 230 million in 2017. As a result of these measures, Portuguese companies are now more capitalised, more profitable and less indebted. Financial autonomy has increased to more than 36 % — the highest ever —, its profitability is more than 7 % — at most this century — and its indebtedness has fallen to 133 % of the Product, although the growth of business investment has reached historic peaks. But if confidence has generated investment, economic growth and the rigour of budgetary management have also strengthened confidence, allowing the reduction of business financing costs. The strict management of public finances, the stabilization of the financial system, the sustained economic growth allowed the interest rate of financing to be lowered by reducing the differential vis-à-vis European congeners which penalized the competitiveness of our exports. Companies are today more competitive and have gained market share abroad. The profile of our economy has changed. Exports reached a maximum of time and their value — which was 10 years ago 28 % of GDP (gross domestic product) — in 2008 reached 44 % last year, making it credible that they could represent 50 % of GDP in the next decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Strong companies make a strong economy and make it possible to create more and better jobs, with better wages. The recomposition of the labour market has resulted not only in job creation but also in the gradual improvement of job quality, both in terms of stability and in terms of qualifications and income. In fact, 85 % of the 321,000 jobs created were completed with a final contract; 97 % of employment created is workers with secondary or higher education; the net average wage increased by 4, 2 % between 2017 and 2018 ; the national minimum wage increased by more than 15 % and we found that, as a collective contract, several agreements with increases exceeding the national minimum wage itself have been concluded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This development in the last three years shows how wrong it was who tried to counter the recovery of income to the competitiveness of companies. One and the other were fundamental to the recovery of the economy and job creation. In the modern economy, based on knowledge, the competitiveness of companies depends on the qualification of their human resources and only better wages enable them to attract, fix and motivate more skilled workers. In other words, we must continue to improve the income of families and the competitiveness of businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why in the budget proposal, which we will present next week in this House of the Republic, there will of course be measures which will continue to improve the income of families, but also measures which will extend incentives to businesses in reinvest their profits, in support of innovation and the qualification of their workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we point out the remarkable job creation of recent years, we do not forget the scale of the challenge we face. Despite the sharp reduction in the unemployment rate, today we still have fewer jobs than in 2008. We are therefore faced with a paradox: on the one hand, we have fewer than 60 000 unemployed than those registered in 2008, but on the other hand we have still less than 300 000 jobs than those which existed in 2008. The explanation for this paradox is unfortunately well known and dramatic. Between 2011 and 2015, the country lost a considerable part of its workforce with the departure of more than 300 000 residents abroad, exacerbating the already problematic demographic deficit of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u5	It is, and indeed, it was a shame we had this level of emigration! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we want to continue to grow — and we need to continue to grow — we need to increase our human resources: we need to have more workers and we need to have more and more skilled workers. This requires, firstly, continuing the qualification effort of the active population, focusing, above all, on segments with lower levels of schooling, given the clear preference of companies for medium and higher education. It will therefore be essential to strengthen the Qualifica programme, which has already received around 210 000 entries since the beginning of 2017. Secondly, continue the efforts to integrate young people professionally, expanding and diversifying the offer at the level of vocational education that between 2015 and 2018 saw to increase by more than 10 000 students enrolled in secondary education, and in higher education already 12,000 students in the new professional higher education courses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, it is crucial to create conditions for attracting immigrants and promoting the return of migrants. We are, and will continue to be, a country open to immigration, but we also have the obligation to create the best conditions for the return of those who have been forced to leave the country to find work and better living conditions. That is why we will enter in the State Budget for 2019 a programme of incentives for all those who have left and want to return, whether younger or less young, more qualified or less qualified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are of course aware that tax incentives are not enough, however generous, to ensure the success of this programme. It is a work that requires proximity between companies, the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ) and the Portuguese communities in advertising job opportunities, but which requires, above all, the strengthening of the framework of confidence and positive expectations that full personal and professional achievement is possible in Portugal. This programme is therefore necessarily linked to the ongoing initiative of modernising companies, attracting foreign direct investment, creating scientific employment, rejuvenation of public administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u6	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u7	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This programme is also linked to legislative initiatives awaiting parliamentary approval to combat job insecurity and promote affordable housing and also to the programme for the reconciliation of personal and professional life, which we will present to the Standing Committee on Social Consultation in the first week of November. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, Mr President, this must be a great national design in order to be able to have a decade of convergence with the European Union : we guarantee all young people the opportunity to build a future of full personal and professional achievement in Portugal. Portugal needs everyone to have more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u8	We will move on to the question and answer phase. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Fernando Negrão to ask questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not want to start without giving you the following information: in 2016, 100 000 people left Portugal! Mr. Prime Minister, 100,000 people!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u10	That's right! In 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u11	How many did they come in? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u12	I wanted to tell you that I listened carefully. Prior to a meeting we had with the Minister of Finance yesterday, the Prime Minister has repeated the discussion we had with the Minister of Finance. We are within the framework of the Budget and what is happening, clearly—and as Dr. Rui Rio says—is an electionary budget. We will therefore have time, at the right time, to discuss with the government and with the political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, going directly to the issues I have chosen for this debate, I begin by quoting: « What I see, until I know nothing about another candidacy, is a mere personal opportunism». More: « PS cannot be a rental belly of non- militant people to achieve personal goals». I quote one last quote: "Whoever wants to send to the Socialist Party must be militant, he cannot be ashamed of the party and must be subject to our letter of principles. No party in Portugal would accept what is happening to the Socialist-Medeira Party ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u15	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u16	Mr. Prime Minister, is it to silence this kind of statement that you now want to see as an administrator of a regulatory entity Mr. Carlos Pereira? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u17	That is a great national issue!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u18	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u19	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I begin with the simplest question, which is your last question. The answer is: no! On the other hand, this is one of those processes in which the government has, in fact, quite facilitated life. The Government shall choose a personality which it considers to have the appropriate profile for the function;... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u20	... is voted upon by CRESAP ( Commission for Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ), which has already been done ; is subject to parliamentary hearing, which is also expected ; and, according to the assessment of the CRESAP and the Assembly of the Republic, the Government will make a final decision. We therefore expect the Assembly of the Republic to assess this indigentity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As to what seemed to me to be the most relevant aspect of his speech, I wanted to inform him that in 2016, 100 000 people left Portugal. Nevertheless, it was the year in which, for the first time in several years, the number of exits decreased. In 2016, fewer than 10 000 people left than they left in 2015. And in 2017 it was even the first year since the beginning of the crisis where we had a positive migration balance. That is, the people who returned were more than the people who left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u21	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u22	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if this was not the reason why Mr Carlos Pereira's name was given, what were the reasons? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u23	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u24	Mr President, Mr President, of course, it was considered that it was the right personality for the performance of these functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u25	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u26	Mr. Prime Minister, what is a proper personality for exercise... [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, what is a proper personality for the exercise of functions with the responsibility of a regulatory entity? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u28	Mr President, CRESAP has already partially answered this issue in the positive opinion it gave to Dr. Carlos Pereira. As for the second part, we await the evaluation of the Assembly of the Republic. It would be wrong for me to substitute myself for the Assembly of the Republic in the judgment that this, timely and certainly, will do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u29	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u30	Mr. Prime Minister, it is notorious that he flees to the definition of what he thinks should be the profile of an administrator of a regulatory entity. [[PS protests.]] And Mr. Prime Minister will certainly know what a regulatory entity is! A regulatory entity shall have as omega of its operation a characteristic, which is that of independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u31	Independence against the regulated!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u32	Mr Prime Minister, this independence must be for all market players, whether private or public, but above all must be an independence from political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u34	Mr Prime Minister, do you think a Member, in the case of Mr Carlos Pereira, has that independence? Do you think it guarantees this independence from political power? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, independence is, of course, in relation to political power, but, of course, to the regulated ones! This is the key function of the regulatory entity: independence from regulated entities. As for technical fitness, the CRESAP was pronounced ; for the rest, the Assembly will pronounce-CL. Neither I, as Prime Minister, nor any member of this government, would certainly be offended to think that, by exercising the parliamentary mandate, a citizen would be unable to perform other functions independently. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u37	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u38	That's not why, and Mr. Prime Minister knows well that's not why! [[PS protests.]] Ensuring the independence of members of the Board of Directors of a regulatory entity is essential. in this regulatory entity, this independence has already been bewildered with the appointment of the former administrator, who did not raise so many problems because it had a curriculum for this purpose, but it was from the Office of its Secretary of State for Energy that she went out to the administration of this regulatory entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u40	The Socialist Party is now doing the same again, and with all due respect by the honourable Member, in his resume it offers no guarantees of independence to perform these functions. A Member shall have supervisory functions of that regulatory entity. You cannot, from one moment to the next, go out and get checked. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] That is what Mr. Prime Minister said: independence is not guaranteed. Independence will not be assured! I would like to ask you one last question, Prime Minister: do you still think that the honourable Member in question has the right to exercise this position, having the Government, or the Socialist Party, withdrew to the Commission when you asked for the postponement of your hearing to hear the justifications of the Minister for Economic Affairs? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u41	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know the law — I repeat, I do not know the law! — nothing which prohibits a Member from discharging his duties as such and from taking up his duties in the Regulatory Commission. With regard to technical skill and curriculum, better than the government, CRESAP has already spoken. As regards adequacy, the Government is awaiting, as it may be, the opinion to be delivered by the Assembly of the Republic. I'm not going to go ahead with the trial the House will do. Surely, you will have the opportunity, at the time of the hearing of Dr. Carlos Pereira in committee, to express and ask questions that enable him to aquilate whether or not he has the conditions to exercise with the probity, independence and competence appropriate the functions for which the Government has appointed him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u43	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, we all know that the law does not prevent it. That's obvious, it's not! Is that what you're talking about? But the Prime Minister also knows that the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic is not binding.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u45	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, let's move on to another subject. The former head of office of the Minister of Defence admitted today to receiving documentation on theft in Tankos. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think we've gone too far? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u47	Please respond, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u48	All right! As for Dr. Carlos Pereira, we will await the evaluation of the Assembly. It is true that it is not binding in nature, but the government, which is not autistic, is also often listening to those who express what they have to express at the moment. On the second question, the information I have is that which Mr. Lieutenant-General Martins Pereira delivered to the competent judicial body the document entrusted to him, having reaffirmed what he said in public, i.e. whether from the conversation, or from the documentation entrusted to him, did not discredit any irregularities in the action of the Military Judicial Police.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u49	Did you deliver the documentation to the Minister, or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u50	Mr Fernando Negrão, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u51	No applause from that side? Oh, my God! Now the PS didn't applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u52	It's true, Prime Minister. This happened at first and never admitted to receiving documentation! Never, except today's day, in which he came to say — late and late — that he received documentation by hand from the former head of office.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u53	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u54	This is the situation, Prime Minister. It's as clear as this. But I would like to ask you another question, Mr Prime Minister: besides the criminal side that Tancos involves, with the intervention of the Public Prosecutor, with the intervention of criminal investigation, does it not believe that this case would require an immediate intervention by the military hierarchy and the political protection of all disciplinary and political responsibilities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u55	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u56	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, for anyone in this country is urgent the full and absolute clarification of what happened in Tanks, because obviously it is unacceptable the idea that in any military facility there may have been a theft of war material, however dangerous it was. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] at this moment, the country even wants to know two things: how there was the theft and what happened with regard to the material recovery operation. So, what we all need to do, honestly, is respect for the normal functioning of the judicial institutions for the full realization of the truth both as regards theft and as regards the recovery of material. from the point of view of political responsibility, I had the opportunity here to say that we were not aware of the disappearance of the material the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System met the UCAT ( Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit ) and made an assessment of the risks to national security and, in less than 24 hours, assured the Government that there was no risk to national security in relation to stolen material.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u57	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u58	Secondly, the Minister of Defence, who had already ordered the acquisition of the material which had not previously been purchased to strengthen surveillance to that parole, ordered a comprehensive lifting of the security of all the countries and the Armed Forces to relocate all the war material in security. But the honourable Member, for the most part, because he has already been a judge, well knows that justice has a time that does not always coincide with the time of will and anxiety of politics. So, as a state-of-the-art, we should try to do this by giving time to justice so that it can do all its work. For me, I am calm and look forward to the completion of the ongoing judicial investigations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u59	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, your answer, all of it, is contained in criminal responsibilities. My question was about the administrative responsibilities of the military hierarchy and the Minister of Defence who protected the armed forces. I would like to ask you again this question, Mr Prime Minister: what action, what procedures, what kind of initiative has the military hierarchy and the protection of, for example, the situation of the Tancos countries — not to go any further? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u61	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the protection I have already described it; as regards military leaders, they have ordered the appropriate and proper investigation procedures to the Armed Forces and have withdrawn the conclusions...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u63	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u64	...and the consequent ions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u65	Mr Fernando Negrão, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u66	Mr. Prime Minister, we are facing a case of enormous national and international gravity...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u67	Exactly! That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u68	... and Mr. Prime Minister, in his speech, in what he has said to the media, always has an answer to the devaluation and trivialization of this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u69	That's dangerous!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, this is too serious a problem. The prestige of the Armed Forces is at stake, of which we are all proud, because what they normally do is done well. This is an important safeguard. And you don't need to be laughing, because this rescue is fundamental. But with regard to what happened in the Armed Forces, the military hierarchy itself and the guardianship should have taken immediate initiative to prevent weapons from being “to God” by ammunition. I ask you: what did the military hierarchy do, what did the political guardianship do to prevent weapons and other gears from continuing "to the god-giver"? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u72	Mr President, Mr President, I do not devalue anything and because I do not devalue it is that, before the theft occurred, the Minister of Defence, contrary to what had happened before, authorized the installation of equipment which was requested to strengthen the safety of that parole. The theft occurred between this office and the installation of this material. A magazine was made to all the countries of the country and a safe relocation of the material. Therefore, the guardianship has fulfilled its duties. from an administrative point of view, the Chief of the Army's Senior State has already had the opportunity to repeatedly clarify in this House what its role was. I have to tell you that I feel a little shocked... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u73	... by verifying a situation that has not occurred since 1975, which is the partisanization of the discussion around the military leaders. [[PSD protests.]] It is that the respect these Armed Forces deserve us begins with respect due to their leaders, as happens in any hierarchy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Continued PSD protests.]] But the unit commander was suspended, an investigation was conducted and did not resume duties until it was clarified by the military authorities that there were no responsibilities on his part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u74	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not partisanism! The last thing we would do was support the Armed Forces. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u77	It is not bias, Mr. Prime Minister, it is careful with the Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u79	That is what you and your government have not had. Don't be careful with the Armed Forces! That is what we want you to have, because by amending the mistakes that happen, the Armed Forces are strengthened. That's our intention. Now, with regard to the documents that the former head of office of the Minister of Defence has said today that you have received, does the Prime Minister know about them? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u80	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u81	Mr. President, Mr. Member, who questions the authority of military leaders questions the integrity of the armed forces. And that is a lack of sense of state! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As far as your question is concerned, I am not aware of the document that was delivered today in the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u82	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u83	Mr President, Prime Minister, do you know if your Minister of Defence knew? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u84	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u85	Mr President, honourable Member, the information I have is that I was unaware of. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u86	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u87	It is strange, it is very strange, Mr Prime Minister, that a head of office does not transmit such information to the Minister. [[PSD applause.]] It's very strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u88	It was important to hear the Minister now! It was important for the Minister to speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u89	Mr. Prime Minister, next Monday a year ago about the October fires in the center of the country. Tens, better, hundreds of houses were destroyed, Prime Minister and, after one year, through a document, which was released by the CCDR Centre (Central Coordination and Regional Development Committee ), it was confirmed that there are only eight houses rebuilt in a universe of 28 municipalities. These eight houses are distributed as follows: five, in Arganil, two, in Seia, and one, in Tondela. Mr. Prime Minister, you spent a year on the fires, what explanation do you have for this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u90	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly curious about how you know whether or not the document is important. Not wanting to believe that you have access to documents in secret of justice or that you have access to documents that, by the way, should not be such a slow circulation, how does you know if the document is important or not? [[PSD protests.]] I am very curious, Mr President, to know what you know and don't want to tell us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u92	Start the personal insult!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u93	But, finally, one day we'll all have to know what everyone knew about this tank story. [[PSD protests.]] We'll all have to know one day what everyone knew! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u94	We think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u95	Mr Deputy, of the 828 applications approved for reconstruction, 364 are of total reconstruction, 435 are of partial reconstruction and 29 are related to fittings. The situation is as follows:...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u96	I ask you to be synthetic, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u97	... 285 operations are fully completed, 455 are in operation and in 87 cases support was granted directly to families for their own recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u98	To put questions, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u99	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would not like to speak about the various cases brought here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u100	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u101	Several of them are under investigation and others have been discussed in parliamentary committees. I would just like to leave a note on one topic: I think it was prudent for the Commission to postpone the hearing of the name indicated for ERSE ( Energy Sector Regulatory Entity ). in a country which has the natural apprehension of having attended years of PS, PS and CDS appointments more by party card criteria than others,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and considering also the sensitivity of a regulatory entity which has worked too often at the orders of the regulators, it is a good decision not to make in Parliament the hearing of a name which is known the day before. This work must be done well, it must be studied, since the choices must be explained.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u103	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to talk to you about the subject you have proposed to us today for the 15-year debate: economics and employment. I think this is an important moment for balance sheets, because we live in the country at a time when I think it is clear that many of the criticisms that have been made to us were not real. So many times we have heard that we could not raise pensions, because otherwise there would be no wages or that we could not raise wages, because otherwise there would be no economy. [[PSD protests.]] But I am glad that we always knew that the problem of social security sustainability was not in pensions, but in unemployment,... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ... and that the way to create jobs, yes, it's payback, it's pension recovery, it's getting back the support for those who don't have it, because it's these people who live from their salary and their pension that build the country and that they probably won't put their money in any offshore, but they're going to spend it here buying what they need for their life, making that internal search that has also been the engine of the economy. That is why, I think, we have come to this point and we see that the country certainly has—we never forget — many problems, many inequalities, many injustices, many structural problems to solve, from public debt to the National Health Service Basics Act, but we live better, because there is more pay or more pension or social support where necessary. However, the right, which is ashamed of your programme, only brings us here cases, but we do not want to talk about cases, we want to talk about the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We also know that, in this period, everything has been betted on the idea of the lack of dialogue of the forces that made the agreement in 2015 for another policy and another economy in the country. Always, month by month, someone will announce a crisis or an impasse. We are well aware of the differences that we have and that are not deleted, but we recognize that what is important is that final steps are taken when it counts. Therefore, I would like to acknowledge that, having the notion of the incapacitys, which I have already mentioned, or of the divergences, which are profound, the Socialist Party, who thought freezing pensions was the only way to this legislature, finally agreed on a course of updating pensions, the Socialist Party, who thought the minimum wage was difficult, ended up agreeing with us and we all know that, in this legislature, the national minimum wage will reach 600 €. [[PS protests.]] Now, we need to know if we're not in a position to go any further. We think so, and we want that path to be taken. Last year, when the Budget was negotiated, it seemed impossible to create new IRS steps or increase the minimum of existence and today we know that we did this work that had repercussions this year and that it will have for the year. this year, we also started with the impossibility of updating the salaries of the public service. We know that we still have many differences in this matter, but we know that some path is made. Mr. Prime Minister, he certainly knows the priorities of the Left Block: updating pensions; justice to long-term contributory careers; valorization of wages in the public and in the private; support to those who are most vulnerable; family policies, which do not go through creating more commissions or tax benefits, even through family allowance, school manuals and social passes; investment in public services that combat social and territorial inequalities; and surely also energy costs. I know that this is not where we negotiate the State budget, but I would like to ask you about energy costs. This week's news speaks of the high costs of electricity and even the cuts in incomes that have already been possible, in fact, if nothing else is done, the bill of energy will continue to rise in the country, which already has the most expensive electricity in Europe. Mr Prime Minister, I do not ask you about the measures, because the scope of the negotiations will not be this, but I ask you whether we share the objective of having the necessary measures to start bringing the electricity price in Portugal closer to the European average, i.e. lowering the energy bill in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u104	Just drop the VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u105	You have the floor to answer Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u106	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I find it difficult not to follow your smile when you remember everything that has been said over the last three years about the possibility of this political solution and how it works. It was not just the question of when we were in a state of mind that it was the guarantee that we would not even be able to understand this political solution, and the truth is that, from the day of the elections until the day we presented the motion of censure that the right government dropped, it was possible to build the alternative solution that it has allowed, year after year, not only to maintain itself as above all good results, because what we have tried was not only worth changing politics, it was that politics was good. Today, we already have the results that demonstrate the good results of this new policy. That is why we grew more than the European Union average, which is why we had a significant reduction in unemployment, which is why we had a healthy reduction in the deficit, and surely this was possible because each one of us, and all of us, took the necessary steps to prove that much of what they said was not true. It was absolutely false that it was not possible to break with austerity without leaving the euro, nor was it necessary to leave the euro to break with austerity. We have all made our way, certainly with the limitations of each other and with the differences, which, in fact, we must not suppress, because divergences are part of democracy, of each one's identity, and I think that one of the great keys to the success of this political solution is precisely the fact that, in respect for each one's own identity, we have been able to understand ourselves to find good solutions for the country, so that the Portuguese can live better today. That is what we must continue to do and the issue of energy cost is a central issue, which everyone is concerned about. We have already given a very important answer to the social tariff. There were 70,000 families covered, today there are 800,000 families covered by the social tariff. We have to take other measures and we have to work to find the right measures... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u107	...to be able to achieve the intended goal without harming the other objectives, because, as you pointed out, and well, Mrs Deputy, success has gone through the fact that we have managed to turn this page of austerity with growth and job creation. When we look at the deficit, we see that the two biggest contributions that have been made to reduce the deficit are the following: firstly, job creation, which has reduced unemployment benefit expenditure and increased social security contributions, thanks to new workers who may have paid and can discount; secondly, the fact that we have maintained healthy public finances, which has allowed us to save EUR 1400 million per year in debt service. These are two very important contributions to a healthy consolidation that we must continue. in this context, of course, we must work and find a solution or until Monday, or until the end of the debate in general, or until the end of the debate in the specialty, in order to find a good measure that allows us to continue to reduce the cost of energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u108	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u109	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that lowering the price of light, lowering the price of energy in Portugal is surely one of the greatest popular expectations of this legislature. What we know is that we have not only a problem of taxation, which is very high, of energy but also a problem of income installed to energy producers. We must tackle these two problems and we must attack them to ensure, even in a difficult scenario in which there is a high international energy prices, that in 2019 the energy bill in Portugal goes down, because even in the international scenario we know that in our country it is too high and the expectation we have is that for the year to lower the energy bill. But, Prime Minister, I wanted to bring you another question. Today, there is a report — I am sure you know - from NGOs Transparency International and Global Witness, NGOs (non-governmental organizations) on transparency and combating corruption, concerning the Gold Visas in Europe that again points out that the Gold Visas in Portugal are the most popular program and also one of the most vulnerable to corruption. The question I ask you is whether the Government is ready—as you know, the Left Block has already submitted this project—to revoke the Gold Visas. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u110	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u111	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, surely the reduction in energy cost is very important for businesses and families. I do not know if it is the most important, but it is surely one of the most important, and it is surely very important because people also value the fact that it has been possible not only to rest and increase lower pensions; how it is very important to improve salaries; how it is very important to meet many needs of frameworks in the Public Administration ; how it is very important for families to have free school textbooks; how it is very important we can have a new social benefit for inclusion. All of these measures are important and all of them need to be'married' so that we can have a good budget that meets the country's different needs, and among them, too, necessarily try to continue to reduce the cost of energy. As for the Gold Visas, first of all we are of course always available to analyze all risks of corruption, because it is fundamental and priority to prevent corruption; secondly, for the Gold Visa System itself, we are in an evaluation process, with a view, in particular, to the type of investment that may be relevant to its allocation. That is something that we are available to examine. I know there's a report, I don't know it, but it's an area we want to keep thinking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u112	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, very quickly, in my remaining time, I would like to recall the following: the Gold Visa programme was still established in the Government of José Socrates, was very popularized by Paulo Portas during the PSD/CDS government and, indeed, the Minister who is sitting next to you, Augusto Santos Silva, has already said, and very well, that the promise that they would create jobs has not been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u114	Oh, no! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u115	That is, the first argument to the Gold Visas, job creation, is a lie. The second problem is that they also told us that the Gold Visas would not bring corruption, which is a second lie for which all NGOs warn us and even a Euro MP of the Socialist Party, Ana Gomes, describes them as a corrupt scheme to support corrupt. In addition to being two lies—they are neither immune to corruption nor creating jobs—the Gold Visas have a third problem, which is to feed real estate speculation. This is certainly one of the major problems with which the country is debating, because the right to housing is under attack in Portugal and we cannot deny the importance that the Gold Visas also have in this matter. So, Prime Minister, what we think is that the State Budget would also be a good time to move forward with this and other measures on housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u117	...and about corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u118	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, we have a willingness to assess this situation. Obviously, the conditions of our economy are quite different today than those that existed at the time this regime was created. When it is said that no job was created, at the time I was in other functions and I remember well what was a completely deserted city in its center, without the capacity of capital, national or public, to undertake rehabilitation, and how this regime was essential for the relaunching of activity in the city. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] If I wonder whether today the city is the same, clearly that today is not the same, and there are, in fact, other regimes that have been produced in the meantime, which, perhaps, offer other conditions that may be more appropriate. I also believe that we should not rush to draw conclusions, we must wait quietly, in the right principle of separation of powers and in respect for the rule of law, and not declare that there is corruption before the proceedings where these cases will be judged to draw the conclusions which will surely be withdrawn by the judicial authorities. As far as I am concerned, I think we should consider it. If I wonder whether it should be in the Budget, I would say that it is not the most appropriate instrument, because, hopefully, the Budget should be even only Budget and, as a matter that always requires the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, it can, with advantage, be treated in autonomous legislation and at autonomous time. Personally, I would also like to see an assessment of an amendment which the Assembly of the Republic has already made at the end of the previous legislature and which has also significantly altered the regime for the operation of the Gold Visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u120	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u121	I believe that we should see this and also take into account what is happening in the other 14 countries which have an equivalent tax regime so that we do not create a situation of negative inequality with regard to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u122	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u123	Mr President, Prime Minister, has brought us - today the topic of employment and the economy - and we have listened very carefully - but I think it has failed to make two notes, and the first has to do with the size of our economic growth. In fact, we are growing up and still well, that is positive, but when we compare ourselves with European countries and, of course, with the euro area countries, we see that we have the third worst growth. Mr. Prime Minister, that for the CDS is very little, it's little, we can't get satisfied. I would like to hear about strategies to move on to lead growth in the euro area and in the European Union and not at the end of the line. The second note that I think it is important to mention has to do with unemployment. He came down and came down in a legislative framework approved by the previous Government — highly criticised by the left, by the "joined left" who support him today,... [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza]] ...saying that there would be layoffs and loss of employment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u125	... and, in the end, it will be seen and what has been reduced unemployment, job growth— unfortunately now with changes, although not at the core of reform, but some changes which I hope will not result in negative effects on job creation and unemployment reduction. But, Prime Minister, on economics and economic development there is a very important issue that we have brought several times and I want to start with, which has to do with fuel tax. Mr Prime Minister, I remember, and I will remind you of your words in previous 15-year debates on this very subject. In 2016, Mr. Prime Minister said here in this House : « We are simply compensating in the ISP at the rate of VAT revenue resulting from the fact that by lowering the price, VAT revenue has been reduced ». And he also said: « We are not increasing the tax effort of those who consume gas or petrol, we are avoiding the tax puncture that is taking place in the public revenue due to the low oil price ». in other debates, it also assumed that it would be available to review the case, with the increase in the price of oil, also increased the collection of VAT revenue. The very simple question for a 'yes' or a 'no' is the following: will it eliminate the overtax on gas oil and gasoline in this State budget or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u126	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u127	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, when we compare the growth of the country with that of others, we all certainly have an ambition to grow more and more. That is why, in fact, in my speech, I stressed that we need to grow more and, for that reason, we need to increase both the qualifications and the number of our human resources, whether through the entry of immigrants or through the return of migrants. So if we want to grow more? Surely, we want to grow more! When we compare ourselves with others, the first lesson we have to take is this: from our accession to the euro until 2017, Portugal has always grown below the European average; in 2017 and 2018, for the first time we have grown above the European average. The conclusion I withdraw is that for the first time since entry into the euro, we are converging with the European Union, i.e. growing more than the average. And the average results from what? If there are countries that grow less and countries that grow more; now, in relation to the average, we have always diverged, but now we have converged. I believe that we are in the right direction and what we have to do is accelerate and continue to converge. On concrete issues of the State budget, as you know, it is being completed and will be presented at the Assembly of the Republic next Monday. We will then have the opportunity to see all the measures that will be taken, particularly in the area of mobility, because they must be seen as a whole, both those intended for individual transport and those intended for collective transport, and those intended for heavy investment in infrastructure. This is where we should address and evaluate the measures. With regard to your question in particular, I would like to remind you that, between the parliamentary debate you mentioned and today, a very important fact has been given: for the first time, there has been an agreement between the State and the carriers so that there will be professional gas oil, which is absolutely essential to ensure the competitiveness of our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u128	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u129	Mr President, Prime Minister, I continue to believe that we will grow below the Netherlands, Austria, Slovakia, Lithuania is bad and that we will be in third place from the end is bad. We have more ambition, we think that this growth is little and we hope that we can improve, certainly with the CDS proposals as well. I am going to tell you one thing: we are waiting for the State budget to understand what comes here in terms of fuel, because we are not only concerned about companies and carriers, which are certainly important, we are also very concerned about Portuguese families, which every day have to put gas and gasoline in their cars,... [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u130	Those families you buried in taxes! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u131	... we are concerned about the small service providers, who do not resort to professional carriers but who, every day, have to use their cars to be able to work, and with the micro, small and medium-sized companies, who have to work every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u132	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u133	Just to get an idea, whoever spends a fuel tank per week, is spending more €1248 per year on gas and €904 on gasoline. It's a lot, it's a real tax sack for Portuguese families... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u134	... and we will present a proposal on this matter. I also recall, Mr Prime Minister, that since that debate, the Government's opinion has changed: firstly, it was fiscal neutrality for the state's safe deposit boxes and for the Portuguese purse...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u135	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u136	...and then, after all, it was a green tax. We will therefore be here to make this assessment and to maintain the coherence of our proposals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u137	I want to talk now about another very important area, Prime Minister, the health area. We are at the door of the State Budget and, therefore, has here another opportunity to raise the burden on health, which does not distinguish between the coast, interior, north and south of the country. My question is whether, in the Budget, it will correct the government's direction in this area, whether it will provide for the 50 million for Gaia hospital and the 20 million for the hospital in São João - just to mention two examples - if it will enter the necessary funds to pay health professionals the thousands of hours that are missing, if it will provide for the necessary to pay the debts to health providers, which penalise much the conditions of recruitment and increase the costs in this area, and if it will give autonomy to the hiring of doctors, nurses and assistants to the administrations of hospitals, which are now affixed by the « garrot» of Mário Centeno. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u138	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u139	Mr. President, Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristas, you may be rested, there is no « garrot » by Mário Centeno,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u140	Oh, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u141	... since then because, as you know, the health area is not subject to captivating and therefore there is enormous freedom in the management of your budget. [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for the details of the Budget, you will know-CL on Monday, but one thing I can assure you: with the 2019 Budget, we will fully restore everything that was cut in the previous legislation regarding the financing of the National Health Service, which corresponded to 1% of GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, until today, we have already rejected EUR 700 million and we will complete what is necessary to complete what is necessary to do, that it is to have a National Health Service universally free of charge and that it is a cause of pride for all Portuguese. On the issue of fuels, the government has not changed its position, the circumstances have changed. A crucial fact was that we had an agreement with the carriers to ensure professional gas oil. As you know, this was a very old-fashioned ambition of the companies in the sector, which had not achieved this agreement with governments that said so friends of the companies, so friends of the creation of a favorable business environment; because they have achieved it - with this government, which has the support of what Mrs Deputies calls « united left-wings» and which is the most friendly government of the economy that the country has had in many and many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] Finally, a fundamental issue that actually separates us is that our fiscal policy on fuels is part of our mobility policy, and our mobility policy is guided by a fundamental issue, which corresponds to the greatest challenge that mankind has to face in the coming decades: mitigation of climate change. I recommend to the honourable Member the reading of the report that the United Nations experts still this week have presented with regard to the consequences of climate change around the world, particularly in our country, which I think should lead it to think very well about the fiscal policy which defends in terms of fuel and what must be an intelligent policy and which favours the decarbonization of mobility in Portugal. This is our priority, the decarbonisation of the economy and, in particular, the decarbonisation of mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u142	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u143	Mr President, Prime Minister, your priority is in fact to find the opportunities to make the deviations and not to say that they are necessary times to achieve their objectives. [[Well, that's great!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u144	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u145	That's your only, but unique, priority, Prime Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why at that time he was talking about tax neutrality for taxpayers and now he is talking about climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u147	We note the change of argument, we note the robustness of the arguments and therefore I know that from today to tomorrow you will find another argument to justify any other measure that makes it very convenient for you to add more money to the state's coffers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u148	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u149	On health, Prime Minister, I would like to know whether you are going to make money available both to pay extra hours to health professionals and to pay to suppliers — and now I remind you that we are with the worst memory, from a percentage point of view, in terms of spending on health. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u150	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u151	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, I have already answered the question: we will continue to strengthen, as we have done, the allocation of the health budget and we will completely eliminate the brutal cut in investment in health that was made in the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u152	The cut was yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u153	As for the details of the implementation of the budgetary reinforcement, you will have the opportunity to see you next Monday and we will not be in advance of the debate we will have time for today over the next two months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u154	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, finally, in the area of health, the biggest cut was even that of your government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u156	Really! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u157	... which proceeded to a brutal cut in public investment in all areas — not only in health but also in health — the largest that there is memory. Just look at 2016 and 2017 and see that 2015 continues to present better numbers in the public investment area. I would like to address another very important issue which has already been discussed here, asking once again for an answer from the Prime Minister on the question of Tanks, on which we have new and contradictory news every day. Mr. Prime Minister, we consider it essential to protect national defence, protect the Armed Forces and give credibility and respect for the country. Do you or do you not consider that, at the moment, the Chief of the Army Staff and the Minister of National Defence is not a factor of credibility and stability, on the contrary, a factor of fragility? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u159	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I will deal with two dimensions of your question. The first dimension is the following: I begin by not commenting on news that presupposes the existence of a testimony that I do not assist and that, being in secret of justice, no one should know. Therefore, in good rigour, none of us is authorized to know whether or not there existed and, having existed, what has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u160	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u161	I assume that the honourable Member has not also attended the testimony and therefore simply theorizes on the basis of what she has read in the media, the result of leaks of information and the practice of the crime of violation of the secret of justice. For I think it is a very bad way to make politics based on information that results from the practice of crimes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u162	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u163	I conclude now, Mr President. The second dimension, Mrs Member, is this: obviously, the Minister of Defence would not be here if he did not have the confidence to be here and, therefore, if he is, it is because he has all confidence, as I have already had the opportunity to say. In addition — and I will even say it with more emphasis than when I said to Mr Fernando Negrão a moment ago — I find it very regrettable that the debate on military leaders has been partisan, which is completely outraged by a stable democracy like ours since 26 November 1975. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Never again has this happened and I think it is absolutely regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u164	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u165	It was regrettable to support the choice of the Attorney General, it is even more regrettable that the choice of military leaders is being made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u166	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u167	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u168	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u169	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u170	Mr President, when Mrs Cristas finished her questions to Mr Prime Minister, the electronic picture was two seconds, but the fact is that now what we see in the table is 0 seconds. So, I believe that, for the normal conduct of the works, the two seconds, which, moreover, are missing...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u171	Mr President, I ask you to confirm that the rule of this President and this Bureau has been to respect what appears in the table. We do not control anything here, I must respect what appears in the table. So there's not two seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u172	Mr. President, but the table was two seconds away! I believe that Mr. President respects what's in the picture, but the table was two seconds and, in the meantime, it's been 0 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u173	No, I was recording 0 seconds, which, in fact, is what it is now.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u174	But I was recording two seconds! It was a lapse of any, finally, I don't, of course, want to be questioning anyone's suitability...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u175	Mr. Deputies, I don't think it's appropriate for us to be discussing two seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u176	Mr. President, what I think is not worthy is that a Parliament which invests both in pure material and simply withdraws 2 seconds... I think that this is not worthy of Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u177	Let's go on...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u178	... above all taking into account the investment that is made.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u179	We will continue the debate with the Prime Minister. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u180	Mr President, I am assuming that my request is not accepted. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u181	Mr President, I must respect what appears in the framework as to the times each parliamentary group has.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u182	Mr President, but I'm telling you two seconds left, and I think we all saw it.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u183	Mr. Deputies said there were two seconds left, but what the table records is 0 seconds away.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u184	It seems obvious to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u185	Between 2 seconds and 0 seconds there's a difference you know how much? Two seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u186	So much so, Mr President, that we had 2 seconds and we see that there are parliamentary groups with negative times, one with 56 seconds, one with 11 seconds and another with 1 minute and 2 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u187	Let's move on. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u188	I'm sorry, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u189	Please, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u190	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on the subject that has brought us here, allow me two considerations and one concrete question. The first consideration is that life has shown that, in this new phase of national political life, the policy of reintroduction of income and rights was a factor of economic growth and employment, which clearly defeated all those theories of the inevitability with which they massacred us for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u192	The second consideration is that, being this important, we have a fundamental problem, an imperative, which is the need for an increase in national production. Portugal needs to produce more! So every day — to us who have already brought this problem to small farmers — reports of milk producers leaving production continue to come to us. There is no other option for them, in view of the prices of production factors that do not stop increasing and the prices paid by milk, which do not compensate.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u193	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u194	We know that there are large farms producing very much milk, but with what costs and impacts, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! I would therefore like to know what measures the Government is taking to defend small and medium-sized dairy farms, which measures are taking to prevent the entry into the country of milk and milk products below the cost price and, above all, what is being discussed within the framework of the European Union to ensure a new regulatory framework for the market that prevents the countries of central and northern Europe from increasing production while our country has lowered it, as happened last year. Mr. Prime Minister, we're talking about one of the few sectors where we're self-sufficient. This is our concern. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u195	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u196	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I believe that this is even the greatest defeat that the right has had in this legislature, i.e., it has been demonstrated once and for all that the development model that it had designed, in which the productivity of companies and the competitiveness of the economy based on collective impoverishment and loss of rights, was a path that would only lead us to the fund, social regression and the destruction of rights. What it was possible to demonstrate was that, with the increase in income and the replacement of duties, companies have not lost competitiveness, on the contrary, have gained market share and have increased their exports. And more: both the economy of the future and the future of these companies depend on having more and more skilled workers, which requires investing in the qualification of their human resources and paying wages to attract and fix skilled workers. It is precisely the opposite of what the right told us and this change is a strategic change of the greatest importance, and this is surely the greatest contribution this legislature will leave to our country. Since the beginning of functions that this Government has a central concern about the situation of the dairy sector, which has been affected by the end of the quota regime and the embargo on sales to Russia, which was a very important market as well as has also been affected by changing consumer consumption habits. We therefore adopted a set of important measures to support the dairy sector. Of course, lines of credit support for its treasury; specific tenders under the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme ) ; an exemption of 50 % of social security contributions for nine months in this period of more severe crisis ; the introduction of labelling of origin and the anticipation of payment of European Union aid. And on the part of ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) there has been quite close control over any dumping operations that may exist. However, there is a problem that transcends the intervention capacity of the Government and has to do with the price paid by the main milk-purchasing company, Lactogal, to its producers. That's where we can't intervene. However, I would like to point out that if today the price is low, when we enter into office it was at 26, 27 cents and at this time it must be around 30, 31 cents. We want it to rise, but this is a dimension on which we cannot intervene. However, it is absolutely essential to continue to protect this production, whether on the continent or in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, where, as we know, it has a particular impact and economic relevance, and they can always rely on the Government, within which it is legally possible, to help our producers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u197	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u198	Mr President, Prime Minister, for 20 years it has taken an effective fight against precariousness in the public and private sectors. Therefore, for these workers, every day more is a day less of elementary justice in their lives and in the recognition of their effective bond with the State. Several have been the problems during the completion of this process. In the business sector of the State, where the process should have been completed by 31 May and the integration of workers does not depend on the competition, there are many workers who are not being integrated into their jobs with adequate effective linkage. The functioning of the two-party evaluation committees drags the issue of opinions and leaves workers who effectively meet the requirements for integration; there are delays in opening invitations to tender and in the completion of contracting procedures; there are obstacles to a situation that prevents the exclusion of workers because they do not have 12. the year of education. And on all these issues, the PCP demanded and proposed solutions. The Government should set the example and unlock the process by ensuring that a permanent job corresponds to an effective contract for workers of RTP, Lusa, IEFP trainers, SEF mediators ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), specialized school technicians, workers of the former Polis societies and the mission structure of the extension of the continental platform of IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), researchers, fellows or others. Mr Prime Minister, how long will this process take until the government fulfils its commitment to bind all workers who respond to the permanent needs of public services? A short time ago, Mr. Prime Minister said that qualifications and salaries needed to be valued. We believe it is important to value effective bonds, because we thus have more quality of service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u199	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u200	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have taken an important step in combating precariousness in public administration, which was to launch the PREVPAP programme ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ). The legal process that has been adopted has a particular complexity. There were solutions in other institutions that had other modalities for solving the problem and that allowed faster solutions. In any event, what is planned is a timetable in which by the end of this year the proceedings are completed. There is one thing I would like to say to you: I myself will ask for clarifications about a situation that has intrigued me, which is the number of people who are covered by PREVPAP and who have submitted requests and the number of people who have considered their leaders to meet their actual needs. Here is one of two problems: or there is the problem of not being admitted to people who really correspond to actual needs or there are surely leaders who were responsible for hiring people who did not need to hire and who also have to answer because they then hired them. Now, this discrepancy really needs to be clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u201	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u202	Mr President, Prime Minister, we would like to welcome your concern at the resolution of the enigma you have just put here, safeguarding the rights of workers. But in public services there are still problems that need to be solved. Progress in the career of teachers, nurses, security forces and services, justice and other special careers remains a problem to be resolved after the abrupt interruption of negotiations with the unions, considering that the decree-law announced by the Government does not take full account of the time of service provided. Even if it is with a phased solution over time, as proposed by the unions themselves, that is a problem that cannot be solved. We will be here to pursue this discussion until the problem is resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u203	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u204	Another worrying problem that needs to be answered is the lack of workers in public services. Years and years of policies for the de-investment of successive governments, which the former Government has expanded, have led public services to increasing difficulties in responding and fulfilling their functions. There are many examples, but here I would like to highlight that of social security: waiting times for social security responses are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u206	There are hundreds of reports, some dramatics, of workers and their families waiting 10, 11, 12 months ago for the response of social security to a request for reform, a claim for death or supplement for dependence. But I would like to highlight the case of the long-term unemployed in which, requiring the early retirement of three months before the end of the unemployment allowance, as the law states, the deferral that is taking 9, 10 months and up to one year, remaining these families, during that period, without any income whatsoever. Imagine, Mr. Prime Minister, imagine if any of us were in this situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u208	... imagine the suffering of these families that get worse than those who receive the minimum income!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u209	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u210	And that is why we believe that an answer is needed. It is unacceptable that situations of social injustice because of the liability of delays and the lack of workers in social security exist in our country. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u211	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u212	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you know, indeed, about the discussions we have held on the preparation of the next year's budget, what is the government's determination to move forward in filling up many of the gaps that exist in our Public Administration. In the debate of the State of the Nation, I myself had the opportunity to announce the opening of a specific competition for 1000 senior technicians, designed to train the planning, study and prospect centres of the different ministries which, indeed, were decapitated over the years by the processes of reform and not replacement of staff. In the specific case of social security, I begin by recalling that at the beginning of this government, about 600 workers in social security who had been retrained by the previous government were retrained. They were removed from the requalification process, returned to social security and are fully performing their duties. currently, there is a competition for the hiring of 200 people specifically for the treatment of these processes. This competition procedure is indeed delayed because we — I think Mr Social Security here does not allow me to lie — more than 4000 applications for these 200 seats, so the evaluation and selection process is quite lengthy. That is why we have also resorted to the hiring of services in order to try to respond to accumulated work, and on the other hand, we have sought to modernise information systems, so as to reduce the need of citizens to move to social security centres, while at the same time releasing employees to focus on those cases that require urgent presence care. That's how we reopened the contact center that had...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u213	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u214	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, we reopened the contact centre which had been closed by the previous government and which serves about 12,000 calls a day — 12,000 calls a day! — which means, at least, that there are fewer than 12,000 people per day who have to travel to social security. On the other hand, the creation of the pension simulator, which, having started working even recently, already has about 1800 simulations made, which also represents the number of personal contacts that have been saved not only to citizens but also to employees who provide social security services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u215	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u216	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that we had to move from the paradigm that was based on the fact that the worse people live faster the country is balanced towards the paradigm that people need to live better for the country to be balanced. Therefore, this is a substantial difference in the practice of the PSD/CDS government and is the one that has been the practice in this legislature. However, people also need to be aware of the following: the PS alone might not do perhaps a quarter of what has already been achieved in this legislature, and the Prime Minister knows that. Mr Prime Minister knows that much of what we have achieved, particularly in terms of recovery of income, rights, and even investments, has been taken from the government. This is because the Government is often very stubborn, even initially, Mr. Prime Minister. But here we will continue this work of pressuring the government to what we believe, indeed, the country needs, particularly at the level of investments and also at the level of income recovery. Now, Prime Minister, this theimosia by the Government has obviously been on a subject which the Greens could not forget today, because this is the first 15-year debate that takes place after the decree-law, approved by the Council of Ministers, which removes from the teachers what is their right. Therefore, Prime Minister, this government theimosia clearly shows itself in relation to the counting of the hours of service of teachers' careers, but also of other careers that are in exactly the same situation. The government, unilaterally terminating negotiations with the unions, understood to forget, completely erase, to tell people to forget what happened, that is, six and a half years of the time they worked for career progression. Look, Prime Minister, we will continue this struggle here too in Parliament, because we believe that there is a resolution adopted by the Greens, which clearly states that it must be accounted for all the time of service and there is a clear rule in the State Budget for 2018. We will not forget this matter. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, what was really missing was that the teachers were also without a salary increase, but on that we have to talk about it. Mr. Prime Minister, another matter that the Greens here want to bring is attached to Montijo airport. The President of ANA said clearly and publicly that there would be no strategic environmental assessment, because this would make it necessary to compare the Montijo Air Base solution with other solutions that did not interest either ANA or the Government. Well, this is absolutely shocking! in this country, we must also stop with the paradigm that environmental assessment instruments serve to justify and minimize the impacts of decisions already made. What is aberrant is that the government has already made a decision with ANA, building an airport...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u217	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u218	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, what is aberrant is that the government has already made a decision with ANA, of building an airport in a certain location, when the environmental impact study, apparently, is still in the secret of the gods. So what's going to happen? What always happens in major works: the issues of security, noise, sensitive areas, follow up to the opinion, with a set of minimizing measures, and will not effectively serve the weighting of the Government's decision. And this, Prime Minister, is absolutely scandalous. In fact, we must furnish this logic and this paradigm of the country and the Prime Minister and the government must understand that the solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u219	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u220	... found is absolutely harmful, in many respects, for a particular region and for the country. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u221	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u222	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by starting with how easy it is to each of you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u223	Hello...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u224	The share of each one.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u225	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u226	Arithmetic is very simple: none of us would have done anything separately and everything we did together. This is the truth of this legislature! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u227	With regard to the question of teachers, there is no fear and much less the government has withdrawn time from whoever it is. I remember that, for seven consecutive years, two more years, it was passed here in the Assembly of the Republic, in the laws of the State Budget, a standard that not only frozen the teachers' career as it said time would not be counted. Therefore, those who withdrew this time were those laws that were successively approved here in the Assembly of the Republic for seven or nine years. What the Government has done, and it was included in its Programme, was to defuse this career which had been frozen, consecutively, for seven years.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u229	So we really did the opposite of what they say we did. Anyone hearing this debate without knowing the story thinks that this government not only frozen the career as it retroactively withdrew the time it had been told. [[Greens and CFP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u230	The government is implementing the electoral programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u231	This government did not only freeze its career, it did not freeze it before, nor did it withdraw its time of service, because the law expressly intended that that time was not counted. Following the parliamentary debate, there are two deliberations in this House: one is binding on the Government, which is the budget law ; another is indicative of the government, which is the resolution proposed by the Greens. It was not by chance that the Greens felt the need to present a resolution after the budget law had been adopted. And they presented the resolution why? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Because they wanted to say in the resolution, Mrs Deputies, more than what was in the budget law, otherwise there was no need for the Greens' resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u232	The resolution has been adopted by all!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u233	The honourable Member is entirely right about what the Greens resolution says, but what the Budget says is different.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u234	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u235	And I recall the final part of the budget: the solution is negotiated — such as —... (... ) taking into account the sustainability and compatibility with the available resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u236	You know the music but you don't know the lyrics!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u237	In accordance with the budget rule, the government sat at the table with the unions and constructively sought to find a formulation which, in accordance with the commitment it had signed with the unions, mitigated the effect of the freezing that existed until 1 January this year. We did it in good faith and with a very clear rational...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u238	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u239	Mr President, I will conclude but I did not want the honourable Member to be left with no answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u240	Mr Prime Minister, we must all comply with the Rules of Procedure. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u241	Buying? Oh, my God! Some do more than others! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u242	I'm done now, Mr. President. We therefore presented the proposal and, over the next few months, we found no counter-proposal nor any negotiating malability. Nothing! We found even sympathy, and it can be witnessed, because I had a public meeting with Dr. Mário Nogueira that was very cordial, but the truth is that he kept himself I would not say stubborn but unmovable as to 9 years, 4 months and 2 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u243	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u244	And, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to reach agreement when we are in disagreement. What did the government do? I could ignore...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u245	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u246	I conclude now, Mr President. So what we did was to give the form of law to the proposal that we had made and that it rests with teachers 2 years, 9 months and 18 days of the time that the Assembly of the Republic, for 7 years, had said it would not be counted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u247	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u248	Mr President, Prime Minister, APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) continues to pretend that it defends the environment. The Administration of the Port of Setúbal intends to sink the bed of the estuary of Sado, in a natural reserve area, to ensure the entry of large boats into the port and, for this, decided to carry out the dredging of more than 6 million m3 of sand. This project was approved only because APA gave a positive opinion on the environmental impact study. But did APA even read the whole report? On page 91 and below we can read, and I quote, that this is an intervention in a natural system on which we still have limited and insufficient information, that it would be worthwhile to have more information on the fauna that resides there, that the dragons that will be used by the contractor are unknown, that there is no accurate data on the noise levels that will be generated and that there is no precise provision for what kind of behavioural changes will occur in the dolphins. The « cherry on the top of the cake», Mr Prime Minister, this is in conclusion when the report states that, despite the project having negative environmental impacts, it represents a very advantageous economic scenario. Here it is! Always the money! Mr. Prime Minister, the development of the country cannot be done by technocrats at any cost. It will tell me that this is a technical and non-political issue, but from the moment that these dredgings are not properly supported in reliable studies, in which the environmental impact study is clearly sent out, and, more seriously, APA has approved it, it becomes a topic and a non-technical problem but, yes, political. When the administration of the State fails, the government has to intervene and what we ask you today, Prime Minister, is that it suspends this project which has no scientific support and which has at least been approved by APA. We ask you, Prime Minister, on behalf of transparency and the common good, to have the government carry out an alternative, credible environmental impact study and to issue an independent opinion based on truly scientific facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u249	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u250	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all: an environmental impact study has been conducted. This environmental impact study provided for the risks and recommended mitigation measures. The Portuguese Environment Agency, which is the entity of the Portuguese State which has been technically empowered to deliver its opinion on this matter, approved this project before the environmental impact study, setting a set of mitigation measures. The Government cannot replace, on the basis of its opinion, those which are the technical criteria of APA and, agreeing or not agreeing, because we do not have to evaluate, we must respect the technical evaluation of APA. So what we approved and what is being executed is the undertaking with the mitigation measures imposed by APA, because these are the rules we have to comply with. Now, did you agree that if APA had given a negative opinion, the government would replace APA and continue against your opinion? Oh, my God! We do not replace ourselves when there is a negative opinion or when there is a positive opinion. We respect APA, because we must respect the technical opinion of those who are in the Portuguese State empowered to give such a technical opinion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u251	What if she's failing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u252	Also to put questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u253	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, today I address to you on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group two questions on two matters of great importance to the Government, to the Assembly of the Republic but mainly to the Portuguese and Portuguese. Let me begin with the theme of decentralization, which is, for the Socialist Party, the cornerstone of a real reform of the state. There are already 16 sectoral decrees to operationalize what can and should be one of the deepest paradigm changes in how the country manages its resources, bringing together the decision-making centres of the real problems of people and enhancing the economic efficiency of the use of these same public resources. As this is a matter of greater political relevance, I would like to ask the Government, of course, through Mr Prime Minister, about the balance sheet he makes so far in this process, in which the PS parliamentary board has had an absolutely unequivocal commitment, which, of course, will continue to have in the future. But allow me, Mr Prime Minister, to refer to a second problem that affects an increasing number of Portuguese families, as we have repeatedly stated over the past few years. Of course, I am referring to the problem of housing. There has also been an increase in the number of voices that join in an appeal to the Assembly of the Republic to adopt truly promoting measures of a new generation of housing policies. And they are absolutely suspicious voices, more and less close to the political area of the Socialist Party. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the scenario is clear: we need more real estate in the rental market at affordable costs and we need new balances in the relationship between tenants and landlords, basically, of fair and balanced balances in the relationship between the parties. The Portuguese have long been waiting for us and do not want to see their legitimate expectations and legitimate longings disappointed. It was precisely in this sense that the Government submitted three proposals for legislation to the Assembly of the Republic, whose voting process in the specialty will begin in the short term. The ambition of the PS Parliamentary Group is that new programmes and incentives such as these, whose approval depends on the Assembly of the Republic, may soon join other programmes already launched by the Government, such as programmes 1. the law, intended for situations of severe housing shortage, and the door of entry, destined for situations of great exceptionality. They are the most basic programmes of justice. One of the three diplomas, of the government's authorship, under discussion in Parliament, concerns precisely the need to strengthen the security and stability of the urban lease and to protect tenants in a situation of particular fragility. The remaining two diplomas, in the form of a proposal for a law, deal with tax matters, highlighting the encouragement of long-term contracts and the creation of the Accessible Rent Programme, a structural programme and especially for middle classes, but which also does not forget, for example, higher education students. Mr. Prime Minister, we are living in a distressing situation on the housing market in our country and it will not be for lack of initiatives or proposals, either from the Government or from the PS Parliamentary Group, that everything will remain in it. I ask you very directly, given the demands of thousands and thousands of Portuguese on a day-to-day basis: what degree of importance does the Government attach to the proposals for legislation under this problem, on which Parliament is going to address itself in the coming days? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u254	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u255	Mr President, Mr. João Torres, decentralization is indeed the cornerstone of the reform of the State and it is very pleased that I also see a broad consensus in this Assembly of the Republic, that consensus, which is being built step by step with the institutions representative of the Portuguese authorships. Yesterday, we took a very important step with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to approve the specific diplomas of the two areas that we all knew were the most difficult to work on in this process of decentralization, which are those of education and health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is one thing that we all need to do right: the easiest thing about this process of decentralization is to make the law and its regulatory diplomas; the greatest difficulty is to put this process into practice. The President of the PS Parliament knows well the 'partnership pains' of regional autonomy, many of whom are present know the 'partnership pains' of the decentralisation process that took place after 1976 and I personally know well the difficulties of the biggest administrative decentralization process in Portugal in recent years, which was the transfer of competences from the city of Lisbon to the parish of the city. This requires permanent follow-up, a lot of dialogue, a lot of good faith, a lot of work with the numbers, a lot of correction, step by step, of the measures that are taken, because this reform will only have the success that we all aspire to and we need it to have. We will only make a lot of efficiency in our administration if the effective decision-making power is closer to people and problems. That is why this reform is absolutely essential. Mr President, the issue of housing is now central in the country, and I think that this Government and its Parliamentary Group can, in fact, be proud of having placed this issue on the political agenda three years ago. The theme of housing had disappeared from the political debate in Portugal, from the government's organics and, with the eradication of the barracks, it had been considered that public housing policy was no longer necessary. The social housing that existed was sufficient and the middle class dealt with life with cheap credit. Now, what we know well today is that it is essential to have, permanently, public housing policies and therefore we launched this new generation of housing policies. This House has been doing an important work, through a group coordinated by Mrs Helena Roseta, who aims to create a new basic housing law. But we also need to adopt a set of legislation to satisfy the 126 000 families living in Portugal in a situation of shortage, for which we have proposed a very ambitious goal: 25 April 2024. Until the date on which we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the April Revolution, we will ensure housing for the 126 000 families who are still not in condition today. I see no better way to celebrate the 50th April than to definitely solve the problem of the right to housing in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the problem of housing today is also very serious for the middle class: firstly, because the liberalisation of the lease market has shown, once again, that the market does not make housing accessible; secondly, because today we all know the heavy cost of indebtedness to the national economy and families. It is therefore necessary to regulate the rental market and the best form of the regular is not banning, increasing supply, and affordable supply. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u256	So the diploma we presented here for affordable income, whether renting rooms for students or permanent housing, is absolutely important. In essence, what we propose is that all landowners who rent the houses 20 % below the market price, at least three to five years, be exempt from the 28 % liberative rate. Why can't we just wait for the public offer of the state or the authorities? Because today the problem of housing is even an emergency problem and we cannot be alone waiting for the ability of the authorities and the state, we must also mobilize the private park. Anyone reading a report that is today in one of the mornings about the drama that is for many students to find a room in many cities realizes that we cannot waste time and that it is necessary to give an incentive to owners to quickly increase the offer and that offer can contribute to regulate the market price. This is how speculation is combated, effectively, and this is a goal we have to achieve the success of this new generation of housing policies. I therefore hope that the Assembly of the Republic will debate the bills, it will discuss other initiatives, but it will take a decision as quickly as possible, because it is essential to increase the stability of lease contracts and it is essential to increase the supply of housing for affordable leases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u257	Even for the PS Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, before beginning, I would like to make a small comment on what was said here by the PSD at the beginning of this debate. The PSD may have many opinions about Mr Carlos Pereira and his appointment for ERSE, but apparently he has forgotten that he has appointed: Álvaro Damaso, candidate defeated the presidency of the Government of Azores, as president of ANACOM (National Communications Authority ) ; Luisa Roseira, PSD activist who has ceased to be a Member, for ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) ; Paulo Marcelo, head of office of Moreira da Silva, for ERSAR ( Regulatory Entity for Water and Waste Services ) ; João Dentinho, deputy of Sergio Monteiro, for the Institute of Public Markets, Real Estate and Construction ; and Eduardo Rodrigues, adviser of Álvaro Santos Pereira, for the Authority of Mobility and Transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party does not make a negative or positive assessment of the work of all these people I have appointed here because they have been attached or Members; it does an evaluation looking at the work they have done and not the place where they came from. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we are finishing the preparation phase of the fourth State budget, which will be delivered very soon in this Parliament. On this State budget, we have regularly heard the PSD say that it fears it to be an electoralist. We don't know very well what an electionist budget is, because it was said that 2016 was electoralist, that 2017 was electoralist, that 2018 was electoralist and that 2019 is also going to be electionist. Therefore, the electorate, indeed, Mr. Prime Minister, is synonymous with good budgets, budgets that are met, budgets that improve the living condition of Portuguese families and make the country more solid and competitive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was not a budget that did this, so far it was three and what will be presented next Monday will also do so. The PSD and the CDS talk a lot about customers, saying that the Socialist Party government and the majority that supports it only please some customers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u259	That's how it's been since 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u260	In addition to the insult to hundreds of thousands of pensioners, public servants, families with children, workers in general, those who pay IRS, those who receive the minimum wage, what the PSD and CDS forget is that these alleged customers are not customers but customers of the companies. And what the budgets presented by the Socialist Party and the Government did not create customers was to improve the living conditions of the thousands of Portuguese companies, which depend on them, because these customers now have more income or have become employed and therefore have more income.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u261	We need to talk more to companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u262	Therefore, they are not customers, they are customers, which make Portuguese companies and the Portuguese economy more robust. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The idea that there is an economic policy that looks at businesses and redistributes people translates a deeply distorted and distorted view of the functioning of an economy. There is no economy without customers and there are no customers without companies. The economy is a coherent reality, it is a whole that must be considered as such and it is for this all that the government and the majority have ruled and legislated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u263	When we increase family income, companies can sell more and invest more, and that's what they did. The business investment was of the highest in 2016 and 2017, compared to the last years, and sê-CL will - it will also, surely, in 2018, having increased in response to the investment that existed in the previous legislature, even after the troika leaves...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u264	What about public investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u265	... and CDS and PSD, ufantly, with watches and other ornaments such as, have celebrated the great economic recovery and the return of confidence to Portugal. It was with this government and this majority that confidence really came back and that growth really increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] The PSD and CDS devalue some important decisions that we made for the business fabric and have as their sole measure to indiscriminately throw money on top of companies, lowering the IRC to all and benefiting above all those that are least needed, the largest companies in the country. What has this government done about this problem? According to studies by the very unsuspecting Faculty of Economics of the New University of Lisbon, Simple measures have reduced costs to Portuguese companies by 600 million euros, and this budget, according to already public news, will end the special payment on its own. This is an excellent news for Portuguese small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the overwhelming majority of Portuguese business fabric. We would like to see what the CDS and PSD will do when this measure is voted on in this Parliament. But one of the most important data completely contradicts the PSD and CDS narrative about the dichotomy that there are some companies to which we have to lower costs, including wages, and we have to download the IRC, because if they do not invest and do not hire. In addition to this being totally denied by reality, I think it is important here to note a fact which has already been mentioned by the Prime Minister, which is that of the financial autonomy of companies has increased and their profitability is higher in the context of a significant rise in the minimum wage and the growth of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u266	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u267	Therefore, in relation to that thesis that to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese companies we have to crush or not increase wages and reduce the IRC, here is an important counterfactual of three years that has shown exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u268	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u269	The Portuguese economy has never been so good in this century, and the Portuguese economy is better, more solid, more confident in workers and businesses because of changing policies implemented by this government and which will certainly continue in the State Budget which will be presented next week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u270	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u271	Mr President, Mr Galamba, with regard to what the PSD thinks about the Budget, it is better not to rush because I heard Mr Fernando Negrão yesterday saying that he was satisfied with the macroeconomic scenario and with the reduction of the deficit to 0, 2 % and, recently, I heard the PSD leader, Dr. Rui Rio, saying that the deficit of 0, 2 % was proof that this Budget was electoralist. It is, in fact, an interesting concept, because it is the first time I see a Budget that reduces the deficit for the previous year to be understood as an electoralist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I am sure that in the coming weeks it will be clearer what the PSD's thinking on this matter is, if the 0, 2 % deficit for our country is more, is sufficient or less. There is something that, indeed, today is very clear: the key we had for the revival of the economy was the reinstatement of income. In fact, if we remember what the INE surveys ( National Institute of Statistics ) said in 2014 and 2015 about the reasons why companies did not invest, everyone pointed out that the first reason was the lack of expectations in the future, the second was the lack of demand and the third was the lack of confidence that all this generated in the economy. Therefore, the creation of this climate of trust, through the replacement of salaries, of the restoration of normality in life, in the daily lives of people, knowing that they had an order, a pension, which were not systematically dependent on the fact that the Constitutional Court came to cancel what was contained in the State budget and that it would not be revised by a amending budget a few months later, was absolutely essential to improve the lives of families, but also to give confidence to businesses. We all remember that, when we made the first update of the national minimum wage, the PSD bank invested us, asking how many thousands of jobs it would cost that increase of the national minimum wage. The truth is that we went up in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and are going up in 2019 and not only there was no job loss as on the contrary 321 000 jobs were created throughout this legislature. And more and more will have to be like this. It is also false the idea that this majority has looked only at income, only for those who benefit from social benefits, only for those who are public servants, only for those who are pensioners. Don't! This majority has looked at the whole country and each of the Portuguese. Therefore, measures have been taken for companies. I know that they are not so visible, because they are less negotiating with our partners and because they have less media attention, but the fact is that, on the day we arrived at the government, of the European business support funds, they have arrived at EUR 4 million companies and today they have reached more than EUR 4 billion. I repeat, more than EUR 4 billion! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u272	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u273	Well, for once, I have to do the will of Mr President. In fact, I believe that a number of measures, such as the support of PT2020, the Capitalisation Programme, Industry 4.0 ( i4.0 ) initiative, the startup programme, together with the stability of the macroeconomic scenario, which has allowed a very significant reduction in the financing costs of companies, have created conditions, in parallel with improving the income of families, to have a framework not only of trust but of robust and sustained economic growth, which enables us to continue on this path. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u274	We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We now move on to the debate on the state of the Union in 2018, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( c ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ( Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ), and the preparatory debate of the forthcoming European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of that law. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since this is a joint debate, I begin by referring to President Juncker's speech on the state of the Union, underlining two points. First of all, Portugal's total agreement on the priority of the Europe-Africa alliance, which is, for us, an essential partnership for development. This is a process that should involve all Africa and not only Africa that is immediately close to us, not just sub-Saharan Africa, because our dialogue with Africa is not exhausted on the subject of migration. Our dialogue with Africa is an integral dialogue for the integral development of this continent and partnership with the countries of Southern Africa is essential so that we can make a positive contribution to the success of the African continent throughout this century. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, I am sure that it will be consensual in this House of the Republic, the statement that the Government has made, that the first priority of the next Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, in 2021, will be precisely that of the Europe-Africa relationship. The second point I would like to highlight has to do with the timetable set by the President of the Commission for the debate and approval of the multiannual financial framework to the informal Council in Sibiu. It is absolutely essential that this debate be held and that decisions be taken. I know that it is difficult, because there are many contradictions and differences in the Commission's proposal, both of us and others. There is something we are certain: delaying the decision will not make it easier and will have very heavy economic costs for the whole European economy. Delaying the decision beyond the mandate of the current European Parliament will create a difficult transition of financial frameworks, which will have a very negative impact on Portugal, but will also have a very negative impact on all 26 other European Union states. If we want to have an international currency, we must not only complete economic and monetary union but also strengthen our economy. And for that, we must continue to value the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, the instruments for convergence, because we need a stronger economy so that this currency can indeed be common to all of us. The next European Council will open at dinner with a debate on Brexit. It is an urgent and particularly important issue for Portugal because of its impact on our economic relationship with the United Kingdom. at this time, the objective is clear: we can still conclude the exit agreement this fall. We are well referred to as 90 % of the text of the agreement is already closed, in particular the part which is particularly important for us, which is the one that concerns the protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens living in the United Kingdom, as well as for the citizens of the United Kingdom living in Portugal, whether they reside here, or whether they reside until the end of the transitional period, i.e. by 31 December 2020. There are, however, some issues that are open. First of all, the need to accept a model of governance compatible with the degree of participation of the United Kingdom in our internal market, in particular the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this area. Secondly, safeguarding European geographical indications, which is a particularly important point for Portugal too. And finally, the most delicate question that requires a more constructive and imaginative attitude, which is the creation of a non-rigid, non-physical border between the two Irelands, while respecting the constitutional integrity of the United Kingdom and the integrity of our internal market. The next item under discussion in the European Council is the subject of migration, which is today the most divisible within the European Union. In full respect of the values of Europe, we need to find a compromise solution that does not replace the outdated North-South fracture with a new east-west fracture. Portugal believes that it is essential to have a common European response based on an integrated approach to migration. The first condition to regulate the migration phenomenon is to work on its causes, which means building peace, ensuring human rights and development in places that are the source, the origin of migratory flows. From this point of view, and as I said recently, the proposal for a new Africa-Europe alliance for sustainable investment and employment, presented by the Commission, should be a high priority for our common work so that we can create better conditions for regulating migration flows. However, it is appropriate not to have any kind of illusion. Since human beings exist there is migration and as long as human beings exist there will continue to be migrations. We therefore need to find solutions for them to proceed in a regular way and also within the framework of the European Union in a solidarity between all of them. It is therefore important and priority to reform the common European asylum system so that we can have rules that are effectively practical and that ensure effective solidarity among all. Another item on the agenda has to do with internal security. The consensus reached at the Salzburg Informal Council is positive, either as regards the interoperability of information systems or as regards the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation mechanisms or as regards the strengthening of Frontex (European Border and Coast Guard Agency). However, there is a need for further reflection on the Commission's proposal to create a 10 000-element border guard, and it is necessary to assess the actual needs of this effort in advance. We understand that in particular it is necessary to develop a reflection on the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, of the mechanisms currently existing in the Eurojust area, on judicial and police cooperation in the fight against terrorism, before we move on to broaden the competences of the European Prosecutor's Office on the subject of terrorism, because before it is demonstrated its need, this step should not be taken. The Council will conclude at lunchtime with a debate involving the President of the Eurogroup — Minister Mário Centeno — and the President of the European Central Bank, followed by a debate on the reform of the euro area. In June, a timetable was set for the Eurogroup to move forward by December with the completion of the banking union, in particular with regard to the creation of a mechanism to support the Single Resolution Fund, and political negotiations for a European Deposit Insurance System and the reform of the European Stability Mechanism. In order to achieve a robust economic and monetary union, it is essential to provide the euro area, once and for all, with its own budgetary capacity, which has stabilization functions in crisis situations and, above all, that it concentrates on financing the investments and reforms needed to enable real and social convergence between the different European economies, because without convergence there will be no lasting stability in the euro area. We believe that the Commission's proposal, within the framework of the multiannual financial framework, to provide for the establishment of a budgetary instrument for reforms is an important political signal, although it is clearly necessary to change the allocation key and the allocation criteria proposed by the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will therefore have in summary a Council where we can take concrete steps to improve the decision on some of the hottest issues at European level, including Brexit, migration, the multiannual financial framework and the reform of the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u276	Mr Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs and also the honourable Members. State Secretaries present in this debate. Mr Prime Minister, in these parliamentary debates on Europe it is normal to hear great interests of love for integration or also hate oaths, according to the party that is using the word, but it is refreshing to hear it bring here in particular the agenda of the day to the European Council. It is therefore on the next week's agenda that the PSD wants to focus, precisely on two specific aspects: Brexit and migration, as already mentioned here by Mr Prime Minister, until we hope that Mr Prime Minister will bring forward concrete proposals that will meet the national interest and European interest, also outside this parliamentary debate. With regard to Brexit, Mr Prime Minister said that 80 % to 90 % of the agreement is already closed, but what is more sensitive to the agreement is not yet closed, and the PSD remains deeply concerned about the state of preparation, or perhaps of impreparation, by Portugal, six months from Brexit, Portuguese companies and communities in the United Kingdom for the eventuality of a non-agreement. Moreover, Mr Foreign Minister has also warned of the possibility of a non-agreement and that it is necessary to be concerned and prepared for a possible lack of agreement on 30 March 2019. But it's not enough to be worried, the Executive needs to act. And, Prime Minister, I give you some examples of what other governments in this outside Europe are doing to prepare themselves. The Dutch Government hired 1000 customs officers for the ports of Rotterdam and Amsterdam to deal with the scenario of not agreeing on 30 March. The Irish Prime Minister hired 700 new customs agents for ports and airports, 300 new officials for agrarian and livestock inspections and more investment in the physical structure of ports. The French Prime Minister has requested the remaining members of his Government contingency plans for a no-deal scenario. The Danish Minister of Finance announced the creation of an extraordinary appropriation of EUR 100 million in the State Budget for 2019 to deal with the absence of agreement on the day of the departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union. British Minister David Lidington himself stated: "I think that all governments, including the United Kingdom, have to plan for all contingencies". Everyone, Prime Minister, all but Portugal, because we do not see these measures to be activated in Portugal! These are just a few examples of what the European governments are doing to prepare for the Brexit fight. Everyone is doing their homework, everyone else is getting ready for the worst of the scenarios and waiting for the best. In Portugal alone, the Government assumes the character of Cigarette in this context, without effective contingency plans on the ground, without concrete investments, and even disregards the recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic of last year for the government to carry out a thorough study on the impact of the different scenarios of Brexit on the Portuguese economy, in order to support our companies and our communities with knowledge of the facts. Even more, the United Kingdom is no country for Portugal. We have so many commercial and financial links to the United Kingdom that this lack of preparation for Brexit becomes an irresponsible lethargy. Prime Minister, the responsibility to respond to the Portuguese population for the impact of Brexit is its government, is to respond to Portuguese companies with contingency measures. At present, the only thing Portuguese companies have is a seven-measure European Commission leaflet. That is the only thing on the part of the European Commission and it is time for the government to respond to the contingency plans for our communities residing in the United Kingdom. It is true that you can skip steps with the establishment of the Portugal In Mission Structure, which is obviously welcome and a good initiative to try to attract investment to Portugal from Brexit. We welcome this initiative, but it is not the same: skip steps. It is of no use if you are not preparing the essential, if the essential is not correctly planned in time. The next week's European Council will be, as Donald Tusk said, « the moment of truth » for the Brexit negotiations. When is it also the time for the truth for the Portuguese Government to put in place contingency plans for Portuguese companies and communities in the United Kingdom? On the second issue that we would also like to stress, the question of migration, I would say the following: Mr. Prime Minister left the last European Council to give an interview to the Express, in which he said he had been of the most horrible meetings he participated in.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u278	It was the penultimate!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u279	No, the last was an informal meeting, I mean the European Council. The geographical reality of Portugal, as well as the greater political consensus about the country's reception receptivity, which is unfortunately already so rare in Europe, has said that the migration debate is not as emotional as in other Member States. What I would like to know is whether to address the sharp rise in the socio-economic crisis in Venezuela with its European peers. And why, on the point of migration? Because in the last three years Venezuela has already lost 1, 6 million people, who run away from poverty, inflation, insecurity. These migratory flows, which continue to intensify, have repercussions in Latin America, but not only have they in Portugal, due to our expressive community living in Venezuela. This community, which then returns to Portugal and other countries, is in practice composed of refugees from a political and economic system that does not ensure their personal and economic security, on the contrary, as we see from the news about the Luso-descendant community as well as the Venezuelan opposition. Now, Prime Minister, the time has come for the European Union to also act swiftly and effectively to support the Portuguese, Italian and Spanish communities residing in Venezuela and seeking a way out for Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, are you willing to put this item on the agenda and discuss it with your counterparts? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u280	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u281	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is distracted from what the government has done with regard to Brexit, but I will focus on the state of the European Union in particular. We are debating the state of the European Union today, precisely at the legislative session during which the European elections are held. That is also why this debate will have to be done with our eyes in the future and it is important that the Prime Minister has already brought us here the first priority of the next Portuguese presidency of the Council of the European Union. In the forthcoming European elections, it is at stake to elect a democratic European parliament that values and upholds the founding values and principles of the European Union. It is at stake to elect and build a strong block of centre-left and left, all the more important and, from these European elections, will be the institutions of the European Union, decisive for the next political cycle. We have seen in the European Union the weakening of democratic systems in some of its Member States and the devaluation of the values of the European Union, such as the value of solidarity, which is very visible and even more shocking at the closure of internal borders. We have seen the growth and normalization of populism, in which the result of recent elections is testimony to this — the populist parties, often without a political programme or, better, where their political programmes sit in the fight against systems and/or in the fight against the European Union. I know that this statement is simplistic, but time does not allow any more. Populist parties have known to galvanize discontent. Migration and the European Union have been at the centre of the hurricane and will remain there if the European Union is not able to get out of the vicious cycle of migration and refugee policy. A vicious cycle of political decision-making, but above all the inability to implement political decisions, including decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And we already realize, by confronting the good and bad results, that it is not giving in to these populist pressures, making our agenda populist or devaluing the European Union on national political agendas, that we will change the direction. But the European Union has returned to the page of financial crises. There is still much to be done in the completion of economic and monetary union, as Mr Prime Minister pointed out, within the framework of the European Semester and the Stability and Growth Pact, making them more inclusive, more rational and more flexible, in order to allow for a greater balance between sustainable budgetary policies, investment and combating inequalities—now not arbitrary flexibility, but clearly defined in line with what has already begun in 2015. The European Union has played a key role in the fight against climate change and in keeping this issue on the global agenda; it has exported and exported standards and rights under trade agreements; it is combating tax imbalances with companies operating in Europe, but seeking not to pay taxes in Europe, as is the case with digital companies ; it advocates multilateralism, a civilizational value, a more democratic and equal way of dealing with international affairs, contrary to the isolationist trends that have been imposed, with disastrous consequences, both from a commercial point of view and from a political point of view. We are stronger, either internally or in the capacity to deal with external challenges. In fact, the European citizens feel that way—we support the results of the last Eurobarometer for this statement. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Caras and Mr. Caros Collegas : Portugal has huge responsibilities today and Mr. Prime Minister knows that he has greater responsibilities because he is today in the European Union in the process of European construction, and he is aware that he has taken on these responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u282	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u283	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four themes that we think are essential and that we would like to put here. Obviously, the first has to do with Brexit, at the time when it takes one month to the extraordinary summit of European leaders, announced in September. Today Michel Barnier, the negotiator for Brexit on the European side, says that he is optimistic about a close agreement on the first phase of negotiations. However, some concerns that existed three, four, eight months ago remain: the question of Ireland and the rights of European and British citizens and citizens. On Ireland, the impasse is obvious. The existence of a frontier calls into question the peace agreement of Holy Friday and calls into question a complex, difficult political process that now has one of its greatest challenges. Today it is said that the great issue is the typology of the border. However, it seems to us that the great problem is before the typology of the border, it is the existence of the border itself. And that, yes, will be the core of the existence or not of an agreement with Brexit. Therefore, considering that there is at this time the possibility of a non-agreement, at least if we heed the various public statements on both sides that have been made by several political actors in the process, it is important to realize what consequences is that the non-agreement has and what preparations is that the non-agreement has on the part of the Portuguese Government in relation to citizens and citizens. And we raise this issue because the concerns raised by the Portuguese community accumulate and the feeling of uncertainty is very complicated to manage, the more the political climate is hardening and the attacks on foreign communities in the UK are increasing, which we are concerned about. This is actually the question of the Portuguese community which cannot be answered. Is there any plan B for the situation of not having an agreement for Brexit? What guarantees can we give the Portuguese community today to protect their rights? Does the Government or not guarantee that the Portuguese community is not behind in the current negotiations? With regard to cohesion policy, the question of cuts and alternatives that may be on the table, in the context of the discussion of the next multiannual financial framework and the next European Union budget, the cut in the money for cohesion policy is the most controversial issue. During the debate on the state of the Union, President Juncker's last explained the cuts with the need to include new strategies for the European Union. The problem is that these new strategies have smelled of the past of a Europe with walls and barriers, where it now takes priority over the response to migrations with military or military policies, which diverts the money that should be used to meet the needs of citizens and citizens to arms and military material. Now, is there any point in cutting cohesion to increase security policies right now? I know that we have had this debate several times and we will certainly continue to have it, but the problem is that it is really central and is really important for what we want from a European project. And it is all the more important that we are at a time when border closure and security are based on the worst possible arguments: xenophobia, racism and the promotion of fear as a political weapon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u285	Therefore, the choice of these priorities makes a great deal of the concessions that European decision makers are willing to make to the growth of ultra-rightist forces. And this is completely wrong from our point of view. In addition, there are other options that could be followed, there are other choices. For example, and without going further, without going to someone who can be considered radical, please note the proposals recently made by the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani : rates for financial speculation, for transactions for tax havens or more tighter rules for technology giants, who have just failed to pay taxes on European soil. So there are alternatives. Instead of cutting into cohesion, which we all agree to be important for Portugal, there are choices on the side of the recipe that politically imply a confrontation with giant interests installed and that have never been confronted by political power. Perhaps it is time, at this moment, to make this confrontation. Thirdly, and on migration, the European debate has left much to be desired and, it is said, confused. During the discussion of the conclusions of the last Council and the debate on the priorities of the Austrian presidency, we had the opportunity to say the obvious: migration decisions are a total concession to extreme right pressures. There is no justification for attempting to reach common points with positions that foster hatred. Nothing! And we have come to a Europe of lockdowns that fails until it is called to save lives. Please note the recent example of the Aquarius case. It is a saga that shows the total dehumanisation of the European Union's policy. A ship that has saved some 30,000 people in the last two and a half years has registered and reported crimes committed against the human rights of migrants, refugees and currently has no solution. And by pressure from the Italian Government, openly xenophobic and racist, no government dares to offer a solution. And that's not acceptable. The question we leave here is whether, in fact, there is the courage of the Portuguese Government as well to give the Portuguese flag to the Aquarius ship, go further and say « no» to blackmailing parties like those of the Italian Government. Another example, also in this area, has to do with the situation of the arrest of Domenico Lucano, an Italian author accused of illegal aid to migrants, when we speak of an author who, since 1998, has a project that gives hundreds of people opportunities to have a better life and also helps their own city. Will the other countries of the European Union have any words to say on this case? Are you going or don't you have it? And is the Portuguese Government going to have a word about this too? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, there is one issue which is very recent, which has still been debated in the European Parliament, which concerns us and has to do with the discussion in this Parliament of the proposal for the integration of the budgetary Treaty into Community law. We are faced with the realization of the European obsession of our times: austerity. What is intended to be imposed with the directive making this proposal for integration is the overlap of non-elected bodies with elected governments, which are not only limited to signaling budgetary deviations or foreseeing them, even without any apparent reason, but which can go further. There will be unelected bodies that will become empowered to impose concrete policies, which will in practice lead to the implementation of alternative programmes to programmes that have been covered by the elections. So, above all, we are faced with a fundamental democratic problem. With this directive, there is another huge slaughter in the democracy of the Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u286	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u287	The question we have left is: what is the Government's position on this matter? Are you, or are you not, pleased with this Directive? And in the name of what? In the name of the obsession that has already had disastrous results for our country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u288	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u289	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are having this debate one month after the debate on the state of the Union in the European Parliament, about two weeks after the informal meeting of Heads of State in Salzburg and a few days after the next European Council. I believe that we can try to identify some topics common to these three initiatives, particularly in the debate of the state of the Union, three subjects of the speech of the President of the Commission : firstly, the relevant aspects of this speech ; secondly, the aspects which, frankly, do not appear and should be noted ; and thirdly, the caricatured aspects which are, and should not be, of the speech of the President of the European Commission on the state of the Union. Let's start with the relevant aspects. First, the Africa-EU alliance, the so-called Marshall Plan for Africa. Mr. Prime Minister, it is enough to keep in mind that by 2050 the African population will double, exceeding 2, 5 billion inhabitants, in order to realize that many of the questions about the migration movements we are talking about will inevitably increase. We must therefore recognise that our opportunity for intervention in Africa is now being realized and, above all, we must realize that, if there is a continent where Portugal has a particular experience, that continent is exactly African. More: Portugal will have much more strength in Europe, it will become more and more in Europe, while it is a leading actor in Africa, particularly in the regions we are talking about. Therefore, in the CDS, we hope that the Government will act as this privileged interlocutor in strengthening relations between the two continents. I wonder, therefore, whether or not the Government is committed and whether the next European Council will be committed to this role, which is its role in history, I would say, but above all, very relevant to our collective future. The second very relevant aspect of the speech of the President of the European Commission, who also goes to the European Council itself, is the need to deepen economic and monetary union, in particular by implementing banking union. This year they spend 10 years on the beginning of the economic and financial crisis of the subprime. The United States has already changed its architecture for the financial market and Japan and China are preparing. Even though we have already made the diagnosis, even though we have already identified and mapped the way in which we must create mechanisms that will enable us to deal with a future crisis, namely a deposit guarantee mechanism and financial supervision, the fact is that, despite all this, we have failed to build these same mechanisms as Europeans. It does not pay much for the European Union to commit itself, as it committed itself last year, after the report on the future of EMU ( Economic and Monetary Union ), to adopting concrete measures and, the state of the Union behind the Union's state, the Council behind the Council, we will see these measures permanently postponed. So I ask you a very specific question: what can we expect from this Council, by December, about the construction of these instruments, which are vital for small and medium-sized enterprises to have funding, especially in more peripheral economies such as the Portuguese economy? Mr Prime Minister, also on the next European Council, I ask you what the Portuguese Government is going to defend in the migration chapter, regarding the migration wave we are currently receiving from Venezuela. Portugal is not the only country that is welcoming and receiving this same wave, there is a number of other countries that are also doing so, but it is important that we realize what the Prime Minister will defend in the Council on the issue of many Portuguese immigrants, as well as second and third generations, who are in Venezuela and want to return to Portugal. Second note: the most flagrantly absent aspect of the statement of the state of the Union is the aspect of the next multiannual financial framework, of the next Community funds. We still don’t understand — it’s a mystery to us! — as in cohesion policy compared with Portugal, which has a per capita GDP of about 77 % of the European average, countries such as Luxembourg, which has a per capita GDP of 258% of the European average, or many others, also with GDP greater than ours, such as Austria, Finland, Belgium, Sweden, Spain itself, all with higher GDP, have maintenance or in some cases even increased cohesion funds. It is something we do not accept, nor do we accept with respect to the CAP (common agricultural policy), which is a very critical point for us, a cut in the second pillar of about 15 %. Now, the truth is that I have been reviewing a set of notes on what the Government has done on this matter and I remember a speech here in Parliament by Mr Foreign Minister sitting right next to him, in which he said that there were five very important points for Portugal, one of which was: 'Strengthening the resources available for cohesion policies and for the second pillar of the CAP'. The fact is that we are not able to do this either in the case of cohesion, or in the case of the CAP, and that is why four months after the start of this whole process, we would like to understand what the Portuguese Government is going to say on this subject. The third and final aspect is a cartoon aspect that was in the discourse of the state of the Union and should not be in that same discourse. It is very strange, especially after a matter as important as the next Community framework is absent, that the Commission should remember that what Europe has to do, the most important thing for the future of the European Union is — see! — we will adjust the time or, at least, we will not change the time in one country or another. This matter, for us, Mr Prime Minister, is even quite carted. If there is a matter where States should be able to decide, in their sovereign power, it is to define the time they want. I will ask you a very specific question: we know that there is a directive now under way — it has already been sent to Parliament — and we would like to know whether the Portuguese Government will or will not adhere to this idea. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u290	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u291	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : of what is already known concerning the next European Council, there is no distance from militarism, in fact, one of the pillars of the European Union. On the contrary, the logic of its deepening continues. to migration problems, the European Union responds with militarization and security, rather than ensuring fundamental rights, which is very demonstrative of the hypocrisy of the European Union when it propagates the values of solidarity and cooperation but, in practice, what it implements is the return, when it is also responsible for the catastrophe that continues to live in the Mediterranean and which since 2014 has already killed 17 088 human beings. There is an attack on the sovereignty of States, or on open neocolonialism, such as the so-called "Africa alliance", which aims to impose unregulated trade, investment oriented towards the interests of large multinationals and border outsourcing policies, replicating unqualified agreements with Turkey or Libya to other African countries. It is necessary to comply with the norms of international law that confer protection rights on refugees and that compliance must be achieved through cooperation and the principle of solidarity, in accordance with the specific capacities and conditions. It is necessary to attack the causes of forced migration movements, beginning with imperialist wars and the policies of exploitation and neocolonialism that are at the root of dramatic situations, particularly on the African continent. That is what the CFP believes the government should defend. The European Council seeks to deepen policies that limit and seek rights, freedoms and guarantees, equating the responsibilities of the European Union itself and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) in various threats, such as terrorism or non-conventional weapons. The strategy is old. They are lit up with threats and enemies to deepen policies for the concentration and centralization of police and judicial capacity, while more restrictions, more controls are required, and a safe view of the policies of the European Union is consolidated. Without denying the complexity of the exit process of the United Kingdom of the European Union, the fact is that it has been permanently instrumentalized to hinder, distort the meaning, limit the scope and pervert the sovereign decision of a people taken in referendum. The ongoing negotiations have the virtue of showing what the real interests of the European Union on the one hand and the British Government on the other. On the one hand, and on the other, many are betting on using the new future situation to force a general devaluation of workers' rights and living conditions. It is symptomatic that, in the context of disagreements, which express contradictions between different factions of economic power, which remains firm the commitment to safeguard the coordination of the field of militarism, NATO and the ongoing military escalation. As the PCP has long warned, everything is tempted to make a kind of lesson out of Britain so that others do not "dear" to make similar decisions. The near future will tell the outcome of this process. at this time, it is not to rule out any hypothesis, including that of several sectors still attempting to disrespect and reverse the result of the referendum. But there are two elements that need to be emphasized. The first is that, like what was the referendum campaign, the way in which the negotiation process is being conducted by both sides feeds nationalisms, racisms and openly reactionary ideologies. The second is that the realization of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union will end in itself real possibilities and conditions for progress in the fight of workers and peoples in the United Kingdom and not only. On the so-called 'implementation' and'supplementation' of the euro, the aim is to strengthen the framing of constraints and impositions that limit national sovereignty and thus the possibility of affirming sovereign development projects based on social progress. As the reality shows, the deepening of economic and monetary union, of the euro, will inevitably represent the emphasis on economic and social divergence within the euro area. The so-called « euro reform », with the implementation of the banking union, will mean: the usurpation of States in the control of this strategic sector and the monopolistic concentration of the financial sector ; the creation of a kind of European IMF, through the transfiguration of the European Stability Mechanism, which will be an instrument for strengthening a mechanism of domain and economic blackmail, with its practices and political conditionality; or the creation of stabilisation instruments, which will emphasize the mechanisms of interference of the European Union in the sovereign decisions of the States. This so-called « euro reform », if implemented, would accentuate the serious constraints and taxes already existing today, associated with the euro and economic and monetary union, when the answer to the country's problems requires, on the contrary, their release from these constraints and taxes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u292	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion around the state of the Union has to go through an analysis of the path followed here, an analysis and a balance sheet of the priorities and policies that Europe has been developing. And from the Greens' point of view, the central issue in this discussion is to know who the real recipients of European policies are. Although this has not been the path pursued so far, the great concern of European decision-makers must go through the search for ways to improve the lives of European peoples, to seek, through their policies, social justice and sustainable development. In other words, European peoples must become the focus of Europe's concerns. But what we see is that Europe continues to make a great effort to continue to feed markets and fatten the financial sector, completely ignoring European peoples and citizens. And with an aggravating: this effort, as it is known, has come to require an unprecedented sacrifice on the part of the peoples of Europe. Therefore, in the Greens'perspective, Europe has to start looking at people, it has to take growth and employment as absolute priorities, it has to include solidarity and social cohesion in its vocabulary and priorities, and it has to halt this wave of transfer of sovereignty from Member States to the European Union, because democracy must continue to be a prerequisite for the construction of the European Union. Mr Prime Minister, on the agenda of this Council will once again be the issue of migration. The European Union has said — and it has said a long time ago — about us for too long, but it is saying that it is intensifying its efforts to create a migration policy that is effective and safe, and is now adding solidarity as well. Now the European Council plays an important role here because it is the body that defines the strategic priorities of the European Union. In fact, Europe continues to experience a major humanitarian crisis, a very worrisome crisis, which has involved even situations of violence and even the imposition of discriminatory policies in the reception of refugees, situations that violate all the principles and values that must preside over the construction of a Europe that wants solidarity and respect for human rights. And if it is true that the issue of migration has been the subject of several European summits and has been on the agenda of many successive European Councils, it is also true that Europe's responses have not produced any practical results. In this framework, however, the search for an effective, serious and determined solution to the problem of migration is essential as an absolute priority, but a solution which, in the perspective of the Greens, cannot in any way go through the closure of borders or restrictions on the free movement of persons. in this context, it is important to know what position the Portuguese Government will take in the search for a common and permanent European solution, which, above all, respects the values of peace and solidarity among peoples in the area of migration. This is what the Greens consider important to know. Mr Prime Minister addressed this issue in his initial speech, but it seemed to us that it was not very clear. So, Prime Minister, we would like you to say something about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u294	Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, we are talking about the Plurianual Financial Framework and the outermost regions, the expectations that have been created and some of the facts that concern us about these same expectations and the outcome in the future. The first is the preliminary position which Portugal sent to the European Commission, in which only four and a half lines are covered by all the demands of the outermost regions, i.e. there is nothing there. Portugal's concern about its outermost regions is expressed in four and a half lines. That is to say, we have gone lame, we have left a fragile position and this is a harmful attitude to the outermost regions. The second fact has to do with the evidence that has recently been presented in Brussels : the revision of the financial instrument Interconnecting Europe Mechanism. in this document, as incredible as it seems, the Portuguese Government has entered the extension of the Atlantic corridor only to the waterway of the Douro. That is, the outermost regions, with so many ports and airports, are not there. There was a forgetfulness. Is it a proposed forgetfulness, Prime Minister? Or is it a forgetfulness resulting from what has been the Portuguese Government's disqualification in the outermost regions? Why do you forget that? Why are the outermost regions, with so many ports and airports, with so many infrastructures that need support, co-financing, not in this document? Finally, something that is fundamental to the outermost regions: the POSEI ( Programme of Specific Options to address the remoteness and Insularity of the Ultraperipheral Regions). As you know, POSEI is fundamental and is inserted in a broader attitude as set out in Article 349. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In what way will the Portuguese Government be able to deepen, it will be able to take advantage of 349. that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which we all agree that it is an article which is not being used properly? I recall that the previous government managed to increase the funds of POSEI. Portugal was in a very fragile situation, but POSEI's funds were increased. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u296	So what we want to know — and that is the important question for the Portuguese Government — is what will be the attitude, strategy, demand to create other POSEI under Article 349. o. Mr. Prime Minister spoke recently in the crisis of the Latinos. Now, there it is: use Article 349. for the Azores, in favour of the outermost regions, in the commercial complementarity between the two regions. That is, it is little, it is very little, if Mr. Prime Minister is merely to ensure the funds of the current POSEI. But be creative, Prime Minister, and find other forms of support and aid for agriculture, even in trade between the two regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u297	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u298	This is what is at stake today. The expectations that have been created and what will be the outcome of the next Plurianual Financial Framework are at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u299	Thank you for finishing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u300	And that's what's at stake today. Your negotiating skills are at stake. It is this negotiating ability that has so far been a disarray in the face of the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u301	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u302	In the face of all this, in the end, we can simply say: "And all the Costa has taken! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u303	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u304	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The end of this European political cycle is approaching and there are a number of priority issues that are still to be resolved and that concern us. Migration is one of them. We know that it has been very difficult to reach consensus on this dossier, but one of the aspects of the European agenda for migration, on which there seems to be some development, concerns the external dimension, particularly the partnership agreements with countries of transit and of origin. Now, at the Salzburg leadership meeting, it was the decision to start dialogue with Egypt to establish a partnership, so it will be important to follow up on the developments of this partnership and its terms. However, in order to address the problem of migration at its core, there is also a new partnership with Africa, with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and Security meeting with Antonio Guterres during the UN General Assembly (United Nations ) to discuss this issue in view of the adoption of the Global Pact for Migration, which is expected to be adopted in December this year and which is a priority for us. Federica Mogherini was also in Lisbon this week and praised Portugal's contribution especially in supporting countries of origin and transit, in terms of economic investments and creating opportunities for young people and women on the African continent. However, we will continue this work, in particular partnerships with African countries, the dialogue with the UN and the global pact for migration will be crucial to more humanist, sustainable and positive management of the migration challenge. Another issue that will also be on the agenda and which is a priority for Portugal is the deepening of economic and monetary union. At the European Council in June, the leaders agreed on a timetable for the reforms of the euro area until December. It is essential for all members of the euro area and, in particular, for Portugal to make the euro area more resilient, with instruments that enable it to respond better to crises and economic shocks. Mr. Prime Minister has already said that the road is moving. And if it is true that we are better, it is also true that we are not prepared enough to face new crises. It is hoped that we will also be able to move forward in this area of the European Council. Mr Prime Minister, in addition to migration and economic and monetary union, the next Multiannual Financial Framework is also a priority. I would like to reinforce our concern here, which we know is also the government's concern, contrary to what the PSD has just said, and which is related to the outermost regions and the proposals put forward, including cohesion policy and the CAP. Indeed, the ambition of the European Union must be accompanied by an appropriate budget and it is essential that we continue this process of defending the status of the outermost region in all policies and instruments, thus ensuring that access to these regions is strengthened in the next multiannual financial framework, and I know that Mr. Prime Minister also has this issue as a priority. Mr Prime Minister, to conclude, I would also like to address here the question of negotiations with MERCOSUL. The elections are taking place in Brazil and we know that whenever there is a change in leadership, there can also be changes in the priorities of the foreign policy of the countries, so it will be important to continue to monitor and defend this agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u305	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u306	I will finish, Mr. President. There are, in fact, many still open issues, but we are sure that Portugal will continue to work hard on building an ever-increasing united Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u307	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, with regard to the questions put by Mrs Rubina Berardo on the preparation of Brexit, we sought to prepare Brexit either on the side of the opportunity, with the creation of Portugal In or on the side of the contingency, assessing the risks of the conclusion of Brexit. From this point of view, there has been permanent coordination between the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with regard to British citizens living in Portugal, and also with the Ministry of Economics, to support the regions and sectors that have been most exposed. On the other hand, there has been a joint action with our community in the United Kingdom to ensure the protection of their rights. In accordance with what is already negotiated, as you know, there is a full guarantee of these rights not only for those who already reside there, but also for those who reside there until the end of 2020. As regards companies, 70 notices have already been sent to companies, almost one per sector, with the precise indication of everything concerned in relation to each sector, in a Brexit scenario of non-negotiating agreement. Thirdly, we have come to work with companies and business associations, sector to sector, mobilising in particular AICEP ( Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), with a view to finding the best way to prepare for a scenario, which we do not want! — that there may be a non-agreement. Next week, I myself and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have a meeting with the social partners, within the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, where we will address this issue in detail. from the point of view of administrative preparation, we do not have a direct border like the United Kingdom, as do the countries that have cited, like the Netherlands or France, but we have come to do administrative preparation, either in the Tax and Customs Authority, or in social security, or in terms of aviation, to ensure a contingency situation if there is no agreement. Finally, we will continue to carry out a very active campaign from the point of view of tourism to defend the Portugal brand as a tourist destination, since the United Kingdom remains our main issuer market, although this year we have already suffered a lot because of the devaluation of the pound and the impact that this had on the economy of the British. On the question of Venezuela, first of all our priority has been to support the local community in Venezuela. So all this week, he was there for the fifth time, the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, to be able to make this direct follow-up and meet the Portuguese community in the various states where she is. There has been a reinforcement of our consular services and we have sought to provide this local support. This support has also taken place at political level, with the direct contact that has been maintained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela, always seeking to keep the bridge of open negotiation, which has yielded, as has been seen recently, with the release of the approximately 30 Portuguese who had been arrested within the 24 hours following the meeting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs held with his counterpart in New York at the General Assembly of the United Nations. On the other hand, we have also been working, necessarily, in support of the return. Support for return corresponds, in fact, to a positive need in Portuguese society — to which I referred in my speech — which is the lack of human resources that the country has. We therefore have strengthened reasons to warmly welcome those Venezuelans, Luso-descendants or Portuguese residents of Venezuela who want to return to Portugal. As you know with regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the State budget includes an amount of EUR 4, EUR 2 million for supplementary social support. By July they had been used, I believe, 2, 2 million euros and, as far as we know, about 200 000 were intended for people coming from Venezuela. The remaining amount had been allocated to Madeirans or other persons living in Madeira but not from Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u309	to the Madeirans.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u310	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u311	to the Madeirans.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u312	No, no, no. Maderians residing in Madeira. There are Madeirans living in Madeira, there are Maderians living in the continent, there are Maderians living in Venezuela, there are Maderians living elsewhere, they are always Maderians. Thirdly, I would like to stress two new important measures: one related to emergency support for serious cancer and kidney patients, in collaboration with the Association of Portuguese-Venezuela Physicians, which has ensured the redirection and treatment of Portuguese hospitals; another related to the creation of a platform for job supply, which operates on the portal of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training and today had the offer of 6000 companies, corresponding to 18 000 jobs. I repeat, 18 000 jobs, of job offer, for those who want to return to Portugal, which means therefore that the capacity for reception is positive and corresponds to an effective need. That is why we must not transfer to the framework of the European Council the reception of Venezuelans or Portuguese who want to return to Portugal, because we are pleased to welcome them, and we also need that agreement. In reply to Mrs Isabel Pires, first of all in the Irish question, what has been sought is a solution which, given Ireland's territorial discontinuity with regard to the essence of the single market, can allow the creation of a dematerialized frontier and, on the other hand, with decentralized control of the rules of the single market. There are concrete proposals that have been worked on in the Council and that Michel Barnier is mandated to negotiate. I believe that these are very positive conditions that, if the United Kingdom is open to accept them, they will allow us an agreement. With regard to the cuts in the budget, if I wonder whether it should be cut in cohesion policy to strengthen cooperation in the military area or in the security area, I say: no! I would say even more: there must be no cut-off of cohesion policy, either to strengthen agricultural policy or to strengthen defence policy, whether security policy or science policy. Cohesion policy is an identity mark of the European Union and in no case must there be any reduction. With regard to Aquarium, as with other ships, we have had the kind of solidarity that we feel appropriate, accepting and promoting the coming to Portugal of people landed on these ships, but we do not think that it is smart to put ourselves in the position of replacing Italy in its duties before the international community, offering Mr Salvini the opportunity to sing victory that with him in the Government the other European countries begin to assume the responsibilities that are of Italy. We assume our responsibilities, but no country can be free to assume its responsibilities, especially Italy. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has raised an issue which I have not yet addressed, which has to do with the change of time. I have already had the opportunity to say that, firstly, we find the priority given to this matter completely absurd and, secondly, that the decision must be taken in accordance with the scientific criteria. The Portuguese authority responsible for this matter, which is the Lisbon Astronomical Observatory, has already decided that we should maintain the current timetable and that is why we will be going to hit, so that there is a directive that allows Portugal to maintain its timetable, regardless of the timetable that others want. With regard to monetary economic union, I had the opportunity to speak in my first intervention, as well as in Africa, but I realize that it brought his written intervention before hearing me and could not anticipate this surprise that I said that Africa would necessarily be a priority for Portugal and, in particular, the next Portuguese presidency. That is why the question has already been answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u313	It was also a compromise!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u314	Finally, because time is running out, I would like to tell Mr. José Luís Ferreira and Mrs. Paula Santos: firstly, we have to put citizens and their aspirations at the heart of the European process and respond to what is the central anxiety that European citizens have been demonstrating and for which the European Union can be a more valuable one. The main priority is economic growth and employment. We believe that the internal market, investment in innovation, investment in the creation of better infrastructures, all this is absolutely essential for having a solid growth path. As for the regulation of globalisation, each of us will be more fragile in the negotiation of...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u315	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u316	Mr. President, I am also trying to do so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u317	So, look for yourself, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u318	...without fail to reply to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, what is essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u319	I'm just asking you to look for more.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u320	I am not going to challenge any more concerns for European citizens, but there is one that I would like to stress and that is the following: all European citizens have a deep security anxiety, whether because of the instability that exists on our external border, or because of the terrorist threat that exists within our borders. If we want to effectively combat populism, xenophobia, the biggest mistake we could make would be to underestimate the importance of security for citizens. That is why investing in security is not less investing in cohesion, it is not less investing in the second pillar of the CAP, but surely investing in strengthening democratic resilience to populism within the European Union. Thank you to the ladies. Members and, above all, Mr President's tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-10.u321	This concludes this debate on the state of the Union 2018, welcoming the Government, whose presence in our Chamber ends now. I now announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will take place, as always, at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda is a debate requested by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation on the evaluation of public and external debt. We will then, in general, proceed with the discussion of the Bill No 143 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Drug Control Act by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2103. Thirdly, the joint debate of the Proposal for a Law No 115 / XIII / 3 will be held in general. a ( GOV ) — Alter the functioning and framework of non-judicial entities for consumer disputes; with Resolution Projects Nos 1816 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the extension of the network of consumer arbitration; and 1817 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government make urgent submission to the Assembly of the Republic of legislative initiative to ensure the implementation in the national legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018. Fourthly, Law No 113 / XIII / 3 will be discussed in general. a ( GOV ) — Specifies the crime of aggression by amending Act No 31 / 2004 of 22 July 2004 adapting Portuguese criminal law to the Statute of the International Criminal Court. At the fifth point, we will examine Petition No 307 / XIII / 2. a (Margarida Vaqueiro Lopes et al.) — Requests that the vaccines of the National Vaccination Plan be discussed. Finally, we shall proceed to the joint assessment of Petition No 427 / XIII / 3. a ( FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers ) — They request the adoption of measures to enhance education and its professionals and the Resolution Project No 1818 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Measures to enhance education and public school workers. To all of us, I wish to continue in a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 16 minutes.]]
