ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda shall include a debate under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure, with the Deputy Minister and Economics, on internality. To put questions, you have the floor, first of all, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, my generation was politically educated to discuss coastal and inland dichotomy. We don't believe in the speech that nothing has been done. in fact, efforts have been made for many years to correct imbalances. We don't want to be systematically talking about the past, as some do. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] It exists, it has positive and negative things, but we want to talk about the present and the future. On the other hand, it is not comparable to the governance of a country based on bankruptcy, a memorandum with the troika and a set of ruinous businesses with the state and that of a government, in particular, which has all the favorable winds. Today, we are assessing the Government and the policies of the Minister's interiority. We therefore ask: what are the results presented by this Government in the interior? More population on the inside? Don't! Less migration? Don't! More population rejuvenation? Don't! More companies inside? Don't! More work on the inside? Don't! More doctors and doctors in the interior? Don't! More nurses inside? Don't! More investment in the health system? Don't! More hospitals? More health centers? Nothing! New social equipment? Not either! New business areas? Not either! New scientific and technological infrastructure? Not either! So there is nothing else that the government can bring to us in relation to the inside. In addition, it is sufficient to see the implementation of Community funds in order to understand the disastrous level of what policies are for the inside. After all, in addition to a set of ads, what did this government do? Mr. Minister, the PSD believes that only public policies can be made for interiority that are aggressive, almost radical.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u3	Mr President, you have already exceeded your scheduled time, so you will start to discount the remaining time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u4	Mr. President, I'm done. What does the Minister want to do about the weakest? In fact, what does the government think about this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u5	You now have the floor to answer, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Costa Silva, I thank you for your question. You are right, this is the time to reverse the discourse that came from the past about a dichotomy between the coast and the interior. The whole question of territorial development in our country is perhaps one of the most pressing issues for our collective future. It is a matter of taking advantage of the full potential of our territory, and it is also a matter of offering better living conditions in a territory which, in order to take advantage of this potential, needs people. That is why in the Government Programme we define territorial cohesion as a priority. That is why we created the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior ( UMVI ), which presented the national territorial cohesion plan, approved in October. That is why, in July this year, we reviewed the National Territorial Cohesion Program, making the Interior Valuation Plan approved. That is why we have also raised the status of the Secretary of State responsible for the enhancement of the interior, because this represents the government's political commitment to the importance of this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked about the results of these actions. I would say that the question of the full territorial development of our country is a matter of immediate deadline, which has to go beyond the commitment of only one government to design itself in the coming decades. We have a movement of decades of abandonment of the territory. We have also, as you have mentioned, time for improvements and investment in infrastructure, but now is the time to pursue, in the long term, an appreciation strategy. Mr. Deputies, you asked for results. We want, of course, to reopen courts that have been closed; attract 150 doctors, through specific contracts for areas of greater difficulty; create new health centers...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u7	Mr Minister, you have already exceeded your time, so you will start to discount the remaining time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u8	In addition, the areas of business location have now begun a programme of linkage to large transport infrastructures. And, with regard to technological centres, Mr. Members, of the 20 collaborative laboratories, eight are installed inside, valuing the endogenous resources of our territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u9	You have the floor, for a reply, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u10	Mr President, Minister, the results presented are indeed little. This Government presents a set of measures which, in some ways, are palliative. We do not know structural policies, basic policies. In fact, in a way, government policies are contradictory. And I give you some examples, Mr Minister: replacement of interconnected trains by regional trains in the interior, as for example in the Alentejo; closed stations and lines;... [[PS protests.]] ... cancellation in 2016, with this government, of the National Barrage Programme ; a disastrous situation in relation to the transport of patients, especially in the interior; closure of 70 counters of the General Deposit Box ; closure of CTT posts, especially in the interior – says the Left Block that is a breed! ; Polytechnics in the interior with fewer students. Mr Minister, we hope that you will give us an effective answer to these questions in particular and clarify whether they are not contrary to what Mr Minister has just presented to us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u12	Mr President, Member of Parliament, spoke about the specific issue of rail. I stress again that this government is carrying out the largest rail investment programme that took place in a century.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u13	Are you kidding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u14	Right now, we're in progress... [[PSD protests.]] ...the line electrification program between Covilhã and Guard, which is absolutely essential for us to have good rail connections within the country... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u15	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Minister answer. It is impossible for them to ask questions and then not hear the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u17	Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u18	The investment, which we now decide,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u19	... in new cars, new locomotives and rolling stock for the CP ( Trains of Portugal) serves precisely to restore an investment deficit that has been a long time ago. The rail investment deficit is now resolved by making public investment, which we are launching decisively. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member spoke about the closure of posts for TTCs. The TTCs are no longer a public undertaking, they have been privatized, in an option that some question, but this is the consequence of the privatisation that was decided upon in its time. [[PSD protests.]] He also spoke about the polytechnics of the interior. This government has decided that the concentration of students in higher education, in the universities of Lisbon and Porto, is a movement that needs to be contested. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u20	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u21	It is necessary to invest in the development of higher education institutions in the interior and that is precisely what has been done. [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u22	You now have the floor, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, throughout several governments we have seen a set of policies that only aggravated the problems of the interiority of the country. Who doesn't remember the closure of public services? Who does not remember the worsening of moderate rates? [[Protests by PSD Member Manuel Frexes.]] Who doesn't remember the extinction of more than a thousand parishioners, nationally, made the rule and frame? Who does not remember the imposition of tolls on the ex-SCUT pathways, which were a factor for the development of the country, for territorial cohesion, to settle asymmetries and territorial inequalities?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u25	It was the PSD and the CDS that imposed this on the previous government. Mr Minister, the current government has not yet taken the necessary steps. Effective policies are needed to overcome the problems of interiority that we have had and that were largely also responsible for the terrible accidents we had in the country last year, and still this year, in the greenhouse of Monchique and neighbouring regions. Mr Minister, in fact, these concrete steps must be taken. For example, the tolls in the former SCUT contribute to the atrophy of the economic and social development of the interior regions, as well as of the Algarve, which also has its interior. It is necessary to take account of the support to the people who reside there; it is necessary to end the collection of tolls; it is necessary to fulfill a promise made by the current Prime Minister, who before the legislative elections in 2015 admitted to ending the collection of tolls in the Algarve given that the national road No 125 was a « cemetery ».
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u26	And who approves the Budgets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u27	Mr Minister, when is the end of the collection of tolls in the ex-SCUT? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u28	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Minister and Economics, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u29	Mr President, Mr Vasconcelos, regarding the closure of public services, in fact the abandonment of the territory by the people has led to some public decisions in the past in the sense that, with the reduction of users, they would close services that were no longer necessary. This is not the idea of this government, but that public services not only help to fix populations, but also in less densely populated areas, become decisive, with different models of serving the population. The population is more dispersed and public services must not only focus on the cities of the interior as they need to reach people in new models. That is why we have mobile balconies of the Citizen's Space, which circulate through regions of the interior, to precisely reach the most deprived people. That is why, at the level of medical care, we are developing telemedicine mechanisms to allow better medical care in places where there is no such care soon. The honourable Member also spoke on the issue of tolls. The road infrastructures built in the 1990s and early this century to serve the interior territories were designed with the prospect that the number of users circulating there was not adequate for a collection of tolls. There was a government that decided to introduce tolls in these infrastructures.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u30	It was the government of José Socrates! [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u31	We are currently in a movement to reduce the value of the tolls. A first movement was made in 2016, with a general reduction of 15 % of the toll prices in the inland motorways and, on the other hand, a decrease of 30 % or 50 % of the value of vehicle tolls of Class 2, 3 and 4, depending on daytime or nighttime periods. What we will now accept, and which will enter into force on 1 January, is an additional reduction of the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u32	Mr Minister, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u33	This additional reduction of tolls will affect the freight transport vehicles of all companies, particularly those vehicles of class 2, 3 and 4 which circulate in these motorways. It is necessary to reduce the cost of the context that companies inside need to transport their goods or raw materials to longer distances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u34	Mr João Vasconcelos is still entitled to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u35	Mr President, Minister, indeed, this reduction in toll rates announced by the Government is late and does not solve the main problem either. The regions of the interior have no suitable alternative ways and have been penalized in recent times by unemployment and exclusion, by the difficulties that have affected many people and many companies. Also in the Algarve the problems are very serious, Minister! We are going in the third consecutive year with more than 10 000 road accidents in the Algarve, most of them on national road No 125. This is a shame, Mr Minister, that cannot happen in the country's main tourist region, dealing with a route which has essentially been paid with Community money. By the way, it is necessary for the Prime Minister to honor the word. The word given should be an honest word. Mr. Prime Minister acknowledged that the 125th National Road was a cemetery and admitted to raising the tolls inside. Mr Minister, in fact, it is necessary to keep that word. It is necessary indeed to develop these regions. It is necessary to lead more quality of life to these people and to facilitate mobility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u36	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u37	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, you are right. This movement of reduction of tolls is important. at this stage, the Government has decided to address a critical issue: if we want to attract investment that creates jobs and holds populations, it is necessary that companies that can invest in inland territories do not meet transport costs that put them in a disadvantageous position with respect to the companies that are located on the coast. This means that from 1 January 2019, companies that need to use transport will have their port costs below the costs of those who use the motorways of the coast. I would also like to say something else: it is true that we have to have a great deal of concern about road sinequality and it is true that moving in good ways reduces road sinequality. But it is also true, as you well know, that the government has now started — and is already in operation — an effort to maintain and modernise the national road No 125 precisely to compensate for the lack of investment which has been found in road infrastructures over the past few years and which has particularly affected such a crucial route for the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u38	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor below.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u39	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, for the CDS, the interior is a priority and therefore we have proposed in this House the creation of an independent committee to study measures for better taxation for the interior, which has also been plunged by the PS and the parties supporting the Government. We have made our way and, for the week, we will have a debate here on internal taxation measures. at the beginning of its term of office, the Government also defined the value of the interior as a priority. He created the Mission Unit in 2016 and developed a plan for territorial cohesion. On the other hand, curiously, the coordinator of the Mission Unit who developed this cohesion plan, for feeling — these are her words — "no political support" to implement the measures he had designed, he resigned. Then, Mr. Minister, with the fires, the Government transferred the Mission Unit to the Valorization of the Interior to Pedrogão Grande. And the interior, which was so important to the government, began to summarize itself to the Pedrogan region. All the rest of the country's interior became orphaned. at the time, the then coordinator for the Mission Unit, who is the current Secretary of State, said that he had neither conditions nor means to assume responsibility for the recovery of the areas affected by the fires of October. The Minister has just said that the constitution of a State Secretariat for the Valorisation of the Interior is a promotion of the interior and a sign of the importance that the Government gives it. What I ask you specifically is the following: what will change within our country with this amendment and what will happen to the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u40	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u41	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, in fact the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior was a structure designed to coordinate government action in relation to the interior. It was under the aegis of the Mission Unit that the National Program for Territorial Cohesion was approved. They speak of this program as being a kind of collection of rough measures that the various government areas should do, but, in fact, the program, revised in July this year as a plan of appreciation of the interior, is a joint set of measures to serve three very clear objectives. Firstly, it is necessary to combat the problem of demography and ageing of the interior territories, and to that end it is necessary to attract investment which creates jobs, which sets populations. People go after jobs. That is why we have launched lines dedicated within the framework of the European funds of Portugal 2020, exclusively to the interior territories. Our objective is that by the end of Portugal 2020 we can have EUR 1700 million of private investment exclusively devoted to the interior territories. Next week we'll have the nominations for the Repose and Attract Programmes approved, specifically launched for the interior territories. There are hundreds of millions of euros of private investment that will be installed in territories of the interior or replenishing capacities or diversifying the economic base of these territories, creating many hundreds of jobs. He also spoke to me about the importance of the creation of the place of State Secretary for the Valorization of the Interior in our Government. I believe that this corresponds precisely to raising the political level of the importance of this issue. I sincerely hope that this idea of raising the value of the interior, as a transversal objective, with a government presence, is not a decision that lasts only the term of this legislature, but that it can definitely continue to be a bet of other governments for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u42	To reply, you have the floor again to Mr Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u43	Mr President, Minister, we learned that we have gone through a set of measures contained in the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion for a set of measures proposed by the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior. Therefore, we are no longer advertising measures for action announcements, and the interior continues to do so. The package of initiatives on demography that the CDS presented here was plummeted by the majority on the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u44	It was bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u45	So we don't understand, and we keep waiting. It's always for tomorrow, and the interior is always the same. Mr Minister did not respond to what was going to happen to the Mission Unit, but he would dare to tell me that we had a Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior that drew a set of measures, a set of programmes, and now it seems that we do not have a Mission Unit but rather a "Designation of the Interior Unit". That's what we think is going to happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u46	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u48	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u49	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u50	Mr President, I believe that it was Mr Minister's turn to answer Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u51	You're absolutely right. You have the floor, Minister. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca looked forward to your reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think Mrs Patrícia Fonseca deserved an answer, but it is not due to my consideration. Mrs Deputy, I would like to say that you cannot speak in extinction of UMVI. What is at issue is, on the contrary, the elevation of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior to the category of a State Secretary. So, I'm sorry, let's not play with the words. This is in fact an increase in the political importance of the issue of the value of the interior within the government. It's not all over. I would like to tell you the following: what is at stake, precisely, is that we have increased capacity and strengthened political weight for the implementation of measures which are transversal to the entire Public Administration and which, for example, involve closer cooperation with Spain in the field of cross-border cooperation. This must have a strengthening of political weight so that the implementation of the plan, which is very early, can still have effect. I would like to say one more thing: it is illusory to think that any policy of development of the interior to recover a few decades of delay and demographic abandonment of these territories can take effect within one or two legislatures. The measures we are taking, which create jobs, which attract populations, which value the natural capital of the interior territories, are measures that must be pursued consistently over time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u53	I now give the floor to Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u54	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr President again, Mr President. Members, the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, in a debate on interiority, it is important to draw a picture of decades of right-wing policy in which desertification, depopulation and structural deficits were established in the country. Decades have been marked by the destruction of thousands of jobs and more than 400 000 agricultural holdings, the closure of hundreds of public services and decentralised State services and the absence of early public investment to support development. It is only possible to defend the rural and internal world, Mr Minister, if we follow an alternative policy of defending family agriculture, job creation, strengthening public services and regional development. Only in this way can we create living conditions for those who live there. So far the path has been another one, namely the abandonment, depopulation and the increase in territorial inequalities. Mr Minister, if there is anything that fires have come to nude was not only the fragility of the rural and interior world, but, above all, how wrong the policy was followed by successive governments, the policy that does not serve the people and the country and with which this government does not want to break. Mr. Minister knows that in order to develop the interior, advertising and announcements are not enough. We must move, as you have already acknowledged today, from words to acts! This is because the appreciation of the interior cannot be achieved without public structures indispensable to the lives of people. The appreciation of the interior is not achieved by the CAP rules imposed on Portugal. The appreciation of the interior cannot be achieved if the already approved responses are not realized and that it takes time to come true as those resulting from the tragic fires of 2017. The appreciation of the interior cannot continue to be completed by the completion of thousands of houses of first residence and if there is still no response to the second houses or to the support for the loss of income. So I ask you, Minister: what public investment is the Government willing to do to reduce regional asymmetries? For when is the effective realization of the status of family farming? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u55	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u56	Mr President, Mr John Dias, public investment is obviously an essential condition also in any development policy. That is why we have large investment programmes in both rail and road infrastructure, both in public services. But you have raised an issue which, to me, is essential and has to do with the rural territory of our country. We need to attract investment to create jobs, to retain populations. This productive investment which will diversify the economic base will tend to settle in regions of the interior where there is a higher population concentration. The second major problem that we have to address is the problem of leaving rural areas, and this can only be achieved, in fact, with support for agriculture, which can still have a major impact on the occupation of the territory in less agricultural areas. I would like to tell you two things about this: on the one hand, in the context of forest reform, we must now find new ways to support forestry and forestry. We have already approved in this Parliament a system of tax support for forest production. in the proposed State budget law, new support and contributions are proposed which can support investment in the forest. We will launch, for the first time in our country, long-term programmes to support forests with slow growth species, combining RDP 2020 funds, in support of conversion and forestry with slow growth species, and support from the Environmental Fund to support forest producers that diversify production in the long term. We must also combine this with a very great effort at the level of silvopastorice. We need to redesign future policies to allow support for both silvopastorice and other activities in its rural territory, as well as for small family farming. These support is crucial for having a treated rural landscape. The Portuguese rural landscape is a humanized landscape, but it needs to have people, and people need to have income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u57	Mr. João Dias, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u58	Mr President, Minister, you have admitted here, indeed, that which is also the concern of the CFP in relation to the rural and inland world, which is the problem of abandonment. In fact, we could even say that our country, by its structure, would all be a coastal country. It is quite short, it is quite small this track, and these asymmetries are not understood. In fact, they are understood only by the successive policies that have been implemented. Mr President, he spoke of new forms of support for forestry and forestry, but we must tell him that it is also necessary to support State structures, state public services, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, so that producers can also be supported. It is crucial that the Ministry of Agriculture can have sufficient human resources and technical means to effectively support agriculture. And I tell you more, Minister : if in Pedrogon the fires of October 2017 were a disaster, the situation is now chaotic, it has become even more complicated with the storm Leslie. So I also wanted to know whether we are going to move from words to actions and, indeed, create conditions to support people who have already been harmed twice consecutively. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u59	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u60	Mr President, honourable Member, indeed the development of the rural world will also require a strengthening of the frameworks of the Ministry of Agriculture and the local presence. I would like to point out, in fact, that it has already been approved here in Parliament last year, and is being implemented, a very large reinforcement of the effects that are restricted to forest activity and fire prevention and combat. We decided to set up 79 permanent intervention teams in the most priority fire risk municipalities, 100 forest-scaling teams to help with this, the strengthening of 600 military members of the GNR Protection and Relief Intervention Group and also the strengthening of the Special Fire Force. But we need, in fact, a great boost in the frameworks of the Ministry of Agriculture, particularly those dealing with rural areas, not only about the protection of nature, but, I would say, about the whole follow-up of the non-agricultural rural territory. Therefore, at the next Council of Ministers on 25 October, where we are going to approve a set of measures on forest, we will also approve the reform of the organic law of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and Forests). The reform of the organic law of the ICNF, which after 25th will also be put to the discussion of the various actors, will provide for a very significant strengthening of the tables and the heads of the ICNF. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u61	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u62	Mr President, Minister, I think we all need to be very aware that this lack of territorial cohesion, these regional asymmetries in our country did not fall from the sky of surprise; they were the result of very concrete policies of successive governments, of disinvestment within the country and gave this result that we all know. In discursive terms, all governments have been very concerned about the interior of the country, but when one goes to the concrete matter, to the concrete investment, to the concrete decision, decisions always end up promoting these regional asymmetries. When a government closed a school in the country, closed a health unit, closed a GNR post, closed a line or a rail branch, contributed to withdraw development potential to areas within the country. I think that this awareness needs to be made very clear and, therefore, I am very impressed with the speech of the PSD and the CDS, which seems to have had no responsibility in this matter, when they had a brutal responsibility in forgetting the interior of the country. But successive PS governments do not, of course, escape this responsibility either. [[PSD protests.]] But let's see one thing: we have a very specific knowledge of the phenomenon of climate change. There are concrete studies on the interior of the country, particularly on the south. And what is the big bet, particularly on agriculture? Intensive, superintensive cultures that have concrete effects on soil depletion. Therefore, we are not promoting an adaptation to the phenomenon of climate change, which is an objective that we should all have. We're doing the opposite! For example, something that is very close to the Greens is the railway, in which we believe that there should be a much bigger bet, indeed, on the part of the Government. We have already raised the question of the East Line. Moreover, by means of The Greens, this issue has been resolved in this Parliament, i.e. the replacement of daily passenger transport on the East Line. However, Mr Minister, there is an effective need to connect the Portalegre station to the industrial area in order to precisely enable this industrial zone to be enhanced. We are talking about job creation, business installation, in order to promote an approach to the future line Sines-Caia! They're strategic visions! For example, how is it possible that there is no direct link between Lisbon and Beja? Oh, my God! How is it possible that this government does not give priority to electrification of the White House and then to the Funcheira link, in fact, enhance this capacity for mobility of the people and for the connection of the territory? These are, indeed, strategic visions!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u64	Mr President, I am referring only to support for family farming, which is decisive. We have a CAP (common agricultural policy) that has liquidated our productive activity, which shuts down the support of effective production. We need to bet on family agriculture, because it is potential that we are giving to the inside and to young families. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u65	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u66	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, did well to recall the question of the choices made. When we make a speech about the interior and we have strategies, then the choices are made when we have to make concrete decisions. Have we decided to close the courts or have we decided to reopen them? Have we decided to close health centres or have we decided to strengthen them? These are the choices we have to make. We also have to make choices when we create new public services. We created a public forest company, which is now starting its activity, whose headquarters is in Figueiró dos Vinhos. We have installed the headquarters of the Agency for Integrated Management of the Rural Fire System in Louisiana. We will install the office of Mr. Secretary of State for the Valuation of the Interior in Castle White. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're going to install the Forest Competence Center in Louisiana. These are signs, but they are also concrete measures for the creation of employment and the establishment of qualified persons. More important than that, I would say, is the very large investment that we are making in the centres of technological innovation and in the collaborative laboratories in the interior, because at the same time we need to know that we value the endogenous resources of the various regions of our country—in Bragança, in Castelo Branco, in Covilhã, in Vila Real—and also to create scientific employment, because it also qualifies the average cities of our country. The honourable Member is also very right when she talks about family farming. That is why this Government has approved a status of family farming and we must find ways to strengthen support for family farming in the next multiannual financial framework of the European Union. Finally, I wanted to talk about the issue of intensive agriculture and the National Regadium Plan. One of the problems with which the country is debating is precisely the lack of water. in this sense, climate change poses very important challenges for us. Regadium is a way of using water rationally, it is a way of saving water that agriculture consumes, and that is why it is important that we continue to bet on irrigation. Therefore, aware of the importance of family farming, we must also be aware of the importance of using our water resources well, either from the point of view of their savings or from the point of view of their use to improve agricultural productivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u67	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is no longer entitled to reply because she no longer has time. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u68	Mr President, Deputy Minister and Economics, Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Dear Members, allow me a word of greeting to each other of the Government for the new responsibilities they have assumed, making it very clear the importance that the Government attaches to the appreciation of the interior, from the value of the territory, continuing to bet on a more cohesive, more competitive, more sustainable, more connected and more collaborative territory, objectives clearly expressed in the review of the National Plan of Territorial Cohesion. The Socialist Government has committed itself and is fulfilling, which makes the PSD very angry and causes it to shake. It is unfortunate that when it was government it did not give due attention to these territories. Mr Minister, after some hundred and a half measures were initially planned, the Government, in its Council of Extraordinary Ministers of 14 July, decided to join 62 new measures, of which I would like to highlight the following : the Key Programme in the Hand, the extension of the ICT Competence Centres Network, the strengthening of contractual tax benefits, the strengthening of investment tax benefits, support for trade revitalization initiatives, the reduction or exemption of fees for the industries set in these territories, the promotion of tourism animation, investment in road accessibility of proximity, among many others. Mr Minister, we are facing a bet made by a government that remains committed to the interior and the State budget for 2019 reflects that. So I ask you: what can you share with us about investment and incentives to develop in the short term? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u69	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u70	Mr President, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, thank you very much for your question. I am referring again to what I said at the outset: fixing populations, attracting populations and, for that reason, it is necessary to attract investment that creates jobs. People go after employment, so in order to have conditions for job creation, the establishment of productive units that value or diversify the economic base of the regions of the country is necessary to have the appropriate tools. It is also necessary to promote, internally and externally, the potentialities of the interior territories, regions and cities, their diverse vocation, so that investors who are weighing an investment decision are able to go there. in this sense, I would like to mention three aspects. First of all, yesterday the Council of Ministers passed a decree establishing and regulating the Investment Capture Programme for the Interior. This diploma essentially contains two aspects. One, it has to do with the external promotion of the interior territories. Adds public agencies that capture investment, such as IAPMEI ( Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation, I.P. ) and the AICEP ( Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), but also our consular network and other internal institutions, in order to achieve joint promotion of investment opportunities within the country. It identifies the needs, identifies the potentials, and then this information is used by our external promotion network, which has been so successful in these three years to capture external investment, to also help, more structurally, attract investment to the country. The second aspect of this programme is precisely the simplification of administrative procedures for inside investment projects which have characteristics that justify this simplification. Finally, I would like to point out that only this structuring of the performance of the Public Administration is not enough. We need to have the financial instruments that support investment decisions. And that is why, as I have already mentioned in the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, we want the funds specifically to be directed to the interior territories in a proportion of 33 % of the total support potential for private investment until the end of the Community framework, but also the various proposals for tax benefits to investment in the interior which are contained in the proposed State budget law : the strengthening and increasing of support under investment tax contracts, the strengthening of the investment support tax system and the strengthening of deduction for retained and reinvested profits. They are powerful tools that justify the most accurate weighting of the investment in the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u71	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has no right to reply. You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, who has been thinking and discussing these matters of interiority for a long time is already very tired of good intentions, good words and good speeches. We're all tired of it, sorry to use this expression! Therefore, the Minister and the Prime Minister can well come here to Parliament to preach with the creation of mission units, with the national territorial cohesion plans, with the creation of a State Secretary for the Valorisation of the Interior that all this, with the exception of the Secretary of State, has already been tested. Most of these measures have already been tested and produced no results or, at least, did not produce the desired result. So, and don't hurt me telling you this, what the Minister here announces is a crack. They're minor, they're migalas, they're...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u73	Migalhas are bread too!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u74	...if you want it's a little merchant! The interior, usually at this time of the Budget, is in auction. It's to see who gives the most! It is a measure here, another measure there, to see if things are settled and silent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u75	But that is not how the problem is solved, Minister. These issues are so vast, so deep and so serious that they are not resolved with the Better, which does neither good nor bad. And what the government here is doing is giving an Improving across the country to pretend it's doing something. But what I think is important to point out is that this only goes there with a shock therapy, with courage, with redness, with a strong political will to turn this issue around, on a mission shared and assumed by all parties! Therefore, Mr Minister, I would advise you to review it in a document of the so-called Internal Movement which presents various measures regarding the deconcentration of services and which, curiously, the Minister does not make any reflection. Therefore, I suggest that you take advantage of the location of the headquarters of this Secretary of State in Castelo Branco and think about what you can do, for example, with the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests ), which is based in Lisbon, with the IFAP ( Institute of Financing for Agriculture and Fisheries ), which is based in Lisbon, and even with the GNR General Command, which deals with territorial issues of more rural areas, which is based in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u76	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u77	Mr President, I should like to end by making a challenge to Mr Minister: so that we do not go here to deceive each other and not just an illusion, you, who has this responsibility because you want to assume it, is Deputy Minister and is now Deputy Minister and Economics, you have to do your best to call all the parties to sit around a table and to find systemic and integrated solutions for this matter. Please mark the day, the time and the place. The PSD will be there to help Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u78	You have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u79	Mr President, you are right, it is decades to discuss this issue and it is decades without major inversion. But I want to be fair: I am convinced that the last governments have not decided to leave the interior, I am convinced that the governments of the past have made enough investment and enough public expenditure inside. They made roads, social equipment, sports equipment, made a series of investments in physical infrastructures with which, I imagine, I intended to value the interior. The most serious problem we have, however, is another. It is that these decisions were not enough to reverse a migration cycle. That is why we need to reverse the strategy and that is precisely what has been done with the strategic options in the Government Programme. the great importance given first of all to job creation. Working towards attracting job-creating investment and diversifying the economic base is a strategic change and the results we are having in these three years are EUR 1800 million of private investment in the territories defined as territories of the interior, by increasing support, and more than EUR 17 billion through dedicated lines for the future. On the other hand, Mr President, when he talks about the issue of fiscal support and strategies that have gone wrong, I would say the following : one of the most negative decisions on the possibility of attracting investment to the interior was the decision taken in 2011, when the State Budget Act for 2012 was adopted, in this Parliament, with the votes of some banks, to end the tax benefits to the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u80	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u81	We're now trying to get back what's coming...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u82	I was in the troika's memoir!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u83	This is what choices are! Choices are closing courts, ending tax benefits to interiority... [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I want to say to you is finally the following: the proposals of the Movement for the Interior have been evaluated and weighted by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u85	Much of what is in the Interior Valuation Programme will drink precisely to the proposals of the Movement for the Interior: the question of the creation of new public services, the question of support for the establishment of public servants in the interior—there are proposals in the proposed State Budget Act—and also the valorization of higher education institutions in the interior territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u86	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we note the Government's intentions to reverse the situation of this dichotomy between the coast, metropolitan areas, and the rest of the country. We note the initiatives aimed at new tax benefits, demand for domestic investment, job creation. We believe that it is indeed an attempt to change speech in relation to the interior, but we know that none of this results if we do not create conditions in the territories for these things to work effectively. We need to create economic, social and public service conditions so that calls for investment in the interior have resulted, so that calls for job creation in the interior have resulted. It is not enough to make appeals because no one wants to live inside — in fact, one perceives the exodus that has been there — precisely when he does not have the conditions to live there. That is the first question to be raised, Minister. I'm going to give two examples because I don't have time for much more. First, the Minister knows that there are interior councils where families do not yet get their children to attend all compulsory education in their places of residence and at the expense of families travel. This is an unacceptable situation in our country, in a country that encourages people to comply with compulsory education. Secondly, the Minister knows what is going on with the CTT stations. We realize today that the TTC stations with banks will tend to only be open. We're going from 600 to 200! In other words, in the overwhelming majority of the districts of the country—there are districts with 10, 15, 20 municipalities—we will also have two or three TTC stations. They are concrete examples and this cannot happen! There can be no mere rhetoric of calls for development without creating conditions for development in the territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u88	You have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u89	Mr President, honourable Member, the question of public services within is absolutely crucial also in this. What we define as interior territories has about two million inhabitants. This population has been more or less stable since the beginning of this century, but this has been achieved much thanks to the extension of the average life expectancy, which means that we have a very diverse interior today, with some cities that are the university cities that attract companies, industrial companies, agri-food companies, agricultural activity, but then we have a lot of scattered and aged population. All these people are our citizens and deserve the same quality of public services as Mr or myself. in this sense, we must realize that bringing public services to dispersed populations and increasingly lacking is a very significant challenge. That is why we must assume that the way to ensure public services in territories with low population density cannot be the way we assure them in large cities or even in medium cities. It is different to have a health center that has 5000 users within 500 m radius or those same users are scattered within 10 km radius. Therefore, in this sense, the way we organize our response to public services has to be different. I give you some examples: this government has decided to keep 400 classes of secondary education running with fewer than 21 students, contrary to what would be the ratio defined in the law. This has allowed students from less densely populated territories to continue attending school in places closest to their place of residence. And when that is not possible we must ensure good school transport. To the weaker, older populations, more deprived of medical care or social protection, we need to find different mobility and care solutions. For example, in Pinhal Interior we launched a pilot experience that passes through mobile, medical or psychological support teams, which circulate precisely through the territories to provide such assistance. This is a situation that we must be aware of and that will become more and more important. I am convinced that we will be able to maintain the population in the interior territories by concentrating it on urban centres, but we will probably have many years to deal with populations that are more dispersed and that need a more effective, more satisfactory response, even if it is more expensive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u90	You have the floor for a reply, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u91	Mr President, Minister, I am grateful for the answers but I would just like to introduce a new element in this debate, because we have not yet talked about decentralization and, from our point of view, those who know about the interior are the people who live inside. The idea that the Land of Paço knows the whole interior, can decide and decide according to the interests of the Land of Paço for the interior, seems to us to have to be reversed as well. in this perspective, from our point of view, decentralization is not municipalization. I understand that the Minister has difficulty speaking about measures that are generated from within for its development because, indeed, there are no bodies capable of doing so, there are no bodies with democratic legitimacy to do so, and that is a discussion that we cannot fail to take into account. The territorial management model that we have had in recent decades has led us to this situation; if we do not change it, we will maintain the situation, because it will not be the Land of Peace to change, to get us out of the situation that it created inside. in this sense, Minister, it seems to us that there is an essential measure: it is necessary to give more decision-making capacity for interior development strategies to the interior populations themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u92	You have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u93	Mr President, Mr Pedro Soares, I can no longer agree with you. Decisions must be taken at the nearest level of the local population. Good administrative organisation assumes that decisions are taken at the appropriate level at the scale of its impact and the resources it lacks. The decentralization package currently being approved is a very important step in this direction. It is important that decisions that can be taken properly at the municipal level are effectively decentralised for municipalities and that they are able to have the resources necessary to respond to the competencies thus assigned to them. I would like to say the following: I believe that the level of municipal administration demonstrates absolutely extraordinary effectiveness. But more than that, it shows great efficiency. Each euro spent by the municipalities is a euro that is better exploited than spent by the central administration, has more impact on the lives of the populations. It is important that, in the path of decentralization, to reach the appropriate level of response by the Public Administration, we begin by strengthening the municipal level.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u95	Let's see what we can do to keep this matter going. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u96	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u97	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and make a reference to the remodeling of government and to the fact that you have received a new folder, that of the economy, also meeting with us here a Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, who has now taken over the Secretary of State. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one very important question: it has never been so obvious for all the abandonment to which the interior of Portugal is voted as last year, in the great fires that occurred in June in Pedrogão Grande, and on 15 October. in the great fires, the State failed, the state abandoned many Portuguese to its fate and was the generosity, the capacity of solidarity of civil society and all the Portuguese that allowed to gather much money to be able to do the reconstruction of many lives that were affected in these same fires. At that time, the Government took a political decision : it intended to create a fund, the REVITA Fund ( Population Support Fund and the Revitalization of the Areas Affected by the Fires in June 2017 ), to manage many of these donations, not of its totality, also making the management of public money. It happens, Mr Minister, that by this year we have all seen, heard and read news of suspicious schemes in reconstruction in Pedrogão Grande. We have seen news about, for example, the illegality of the constitution of a cabinet in the Municipal Chamber of Pedrogão Grande, which is the cabinet that makes the sorting of many of these cases. We have seen news about behaviors that I find immoral about the use of public money and private money. Mr Minister, as the poet states, if we « see, hear and read / We cannot ignore ». But it seems to me that the government is ignoring. That is why, Minister, I ask you a very specific question: what is the government waiting for to order a financial audit to the REVITA Fund and everything that is going on? What is the government waiting for to ask the General Financial Inspection to do an audit? What is the government afraid of in this process so far to have not conducted an audit of the Revita Fund? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u98	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u99	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, it is important to discuss the issues of the interior: how to develop, how to attract the population and how to fix the population. It is also important to understand how we can better train public institutions to respond to the new challenges generated not only by the loss and dispersion of the population but also by the abandonment of rural territory, which creates added risks in a context of major climate change, and it is also important to discuss what kind of response can be given by the State in the face of an emergency or disaster. The question that you put is very precise and particular, and I will try to answer as far as I can. What happened after the June fires last year was a huge mobilization of Portuguese civil society in a movement of solidarity probably without similar background in our country. Several institutions, both public and private, received donations that would have to be placed quickly at the service of the populations. The entire community, starting with political office holders, has called for speed in the response to the populations, particularly on the question of the reconstruction of permanent dwellings affected by fires. at that time, one of the most pressing questions was: how to articulate properly the answer that all the entities that had received these donations could give? The REVITA Fund was a way to organize and structure the response to be given. The Revita Fund, which, as the honourable Member pointed out, was only responsible for 100 of the 261 permanent dwellings affected, was structured according to a procedure in which the requests for support were made by the persons claiming to have a permanent dwelling affected, were instructed by the municipal chambers and then followed by the Technical Committee of the REVITA Fund, which did an analysis of the regularity of the instruction of that request and was finally approved by the Management Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u101	The Revita Fund re-examined all the processes it has appreciated and concluded that seven of them need to be re-evaluated by the municipal chambers. What happens at the municipal level, Mr Deputy, I am not able to measure. Now, what I know is that the Revita Fund has already done this audit to the elements it has and, on the other hand, the President of the Centre's CCDR referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office for all cases which have come to the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u102	You really have to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u103	Surely, we are all very interested in finding out the truth in this respect, because the money of our fellow citizens who are mobilized for solidarity must have the assurance that it is properly used. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u104	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u105	Mr President, Minister, as regards the interior of the country, the CDS, on 25 this month, has scheduled a debate on a tax package for the interior, more specifically on a tax status for the interior, in which I hope it will be present. And as far as the country is concerned, the CDS has already proposed, for example, the creation of an independent technical committee, which you have dropped. As far as the country is concerned, it is also important to realize that we cannot lose solidarity, we cannot lose this generous spirit that the Portuguese had. And the truth is, when we all see news like this, in which the money with which many Portuguese contributed is being used illegally or immorally, this undermines the confidence of the Portuguese. And the Minister has the opportunity not to conduct a judicial investigation, which is the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor, but to ask the General Inspection of Finance, because this is provided for in the REVITA Regulation, to conduct an audit to obtain political conclusions at various levels. When the Government chooses not to do this audit, the Government is not giving an answer that satisfies the concern of the Portuguese that they have contributed and that they want to be sure that their contribution, their generosity is being used well. Mr Minister, once again I ask you: why has the Government not already requested an audit of the General Inspection of Finance to draw political conclusions, I pray to whom, even if it might be to some of the members of the Socialist Party? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u106	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u107	Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, there were 259 permanent dwellings affected, of which 100 were entrusted to the management of the REVITA Fund. The Revita Fund received procedures instructed by the municipal chambers, appreciated them within its technical committee, validated them if they were regularly approved and gave a favourable opinion. These news that came to the public relate to 24 cases of permanent dwellings that were affected, eight of which had been accompanied and instructed by the REVITA Fund. The Technical Committee of the Revita Fund has reviewed all cases, the findings of which are published, on a case-by-case basis, for each of these 24 cases. In addition, very recently, the Revita Fund made a press release on the situation of the reassessment it had access to. And he asked, of the eight dwellings that were supported by the REVITA Fund, to reassess five of them by the authorities who conducted the investigation. And he suspended support from one of the homes. All this needs to be appreciated. We need to hear what response the municipal chambers will give to the re-evaluation requests made by the technical committee of the Revita Fund to then take decisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u108	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u109	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are today discussing the issue of internality and, in this debate, we must not abandon the issues of economic policy. Yes, Mr Minister, what the internal market needs, more than anything else, is a strategy that sets out for the development of productive sectors, with quality public services, transport and accessibility under conditions, right employment, to fix populations and allow for development. Mr Minister, it is not enough to throw tax benefits over the problems of the interior! What micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent most of the business fabric inside, need to lower the costs of production factors, in particular with regard to the transport of goods and also energy. The proposal of the CFP to reduce energy VAT to 6 % would bring effective low electricity prices, with improvements to the lives of populations and also advantages for the treasury of companies, which is still to be ensured by the measures announced by the Government in the proposed State budget law. I ask you: if electricity is an essential asset and if we know that only five countries in the European Union pay more VAT than we do in electricity, then would it not be better to lower VAT, thus reverting one of the most serious measures taken by the previous PSD/CDS government?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u111	It is also necessary to end the tolls in the ex-SCUT(free of charge for the user) and to end the concessions of these routes to private persons, even more so when the State has a charge to ensure the profits of the large multinational companies that exploit these routes, and this aggravated, in the case of A23, where the value of the tolls does not even remain for the State, goes to the dealer. Mr Minister, it is too expensive for the country, in particular for the interior regions, this obsession in maintaining these PPPs (public-private partnerships) and the tolls in these ways. The reduction of the tolls was a step in the right direction, but the option to be made is the end of the tolls. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u112	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u113	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, it is necessary to continue to invest and continue to invest in public services. It is also necessary to understand the following: activity in the interior not only lives from large investments, it also lives from small initiatives of proximity. It is important to know how to find tools that support job-creating investments, economic activity generators, which can attract tourism or other activities, so that we can value the interior territories. That is why, within the framework of the entrepreneurship and employment incentive system, which is intended to support small projects, we had, by the end of the first half of last year, 335 projects approved in the interior territories, with a total support of EUR 17 million and a very significant set of investments. They are small investments, they are investments in modernization of a shop, in the creation of a unit of valuing local products, in the marketing of various products. These investments are very significant. Support for the Valuar programme ( Programme to Support the Valuation and Qualification of Destination ) is also significant. The Valorizar programme was set up by this Government to support small initiatives, small investments in the tourism sector and has so far had 121 approved candidatures and a total investment of EUR 44 million. Such initiatives are important, but we must go further. If we want to have public services, if we want to keep many institutions open, we need to find employment responses. That is why we decided to move forward with social employment contracts in the interior. It is to support job creation, it is to support directly, supporting workers' income, so that they can develop initiatives both in the care of the population and in the valorization of natural resources, or in the appreciation of typical products in each region. These small initiatives can spray economic activity and keep the population in the most dispersed territories of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u114	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u115	Mr President, Minister, you said that investment in the interior is not only in large projects, it is also in small projects, and you mentioned some examples. But then, in that case, I would come back to the issue of tolls, which I mentioned in my initial speech: that, also in terms of tolls, they do not serve only for economic activities based on goods. Mr. Minister spoke of tourism. Now, in order to have tourism, people have to get there and, in order to get there, then, they have to finish the tolls in the former SCUT. There are not only goods-based economic activities, but also other economic activities that are not based on such transport. When the government talks about tolls in the former SCUT, it only talks about the goods, and what it needs is to finish the tolls to connect the interior regions and benefit those who work there, who live there and also who want to go there. I remind you that in the case of A25, in 2016, which are the latest available data, for example, there were EUR 99 million in government charges, with compensation for financial rebalancing, and in the case of A-23, there were EUR 149 million, i.e. transfers from the state to secure the profits of large multinationals such as Global Via or Ascendi. In fact, in the case of A23, as I have already said, the question is that the tolls do not even remain for the State. Therefore, what is required is not only to address the issue of tolls but also the issue of PPPs and the fact that they are in the hands of large foreign capital. Mobility and trade are conditioned by the tolls and by this reality. There must be political will and appropriate measures must be found for the State to regain control over the roads in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u116	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor. Please. Mr Deputy Minister and Economics — Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, the tolls are a cost for the movement of persons and goods by road, there is no doubt, and the path of the reduction of tolls is a path that this government has begun to travel. The honourable Member has given a good idea of the funds that are involved in these programmes. The priorities have to be defined and at the moment our priority is to try to reduce those tolls, putting them at a much lower level than the one on the coast roads for vehicles of Class 2, 3 and 4, not only of freight transport but also of passenger transport. In addition, there is a reduction for goods vehicles of Class 1, 2, 3 and 4 belonging to companies based in the country. Therefore, it is the combination of these effects that is important. You can say: "It's not enough. And the tourists who demand the interior territories to be able to enjoy the landscapes and the tourist values that exist there? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u117	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u118	What was evaluated is that the toll is not a deterrent to the decision to attend a certain destination. In fact, we see that the destinations of higher demand in Portugal are precisely those that are accessible via road with payment of tolls. We are setting priorities, and this was the priority: to help reduce context costs to create jobs, to set populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u119	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday was a good day for the interior. The Government approved a number of investment tax contracts to be concluded between the State and domestic companies, including Coficab Portugal, which is based in the Guard, assigning it a tax credit at the head of IRC (the income tax of legal persons) of 20 % and an exemption at the head of seal tax up to a maximum of 5, 7 million euros. The project involves an investment of EUR 38 million, the creation of 129 jobs and their maintenance, as well as that of the current 492 workers. We have the interior as a priority of government action. Mr Prime Minister announced support for domestic investment in the amount of EUR 1, EUR 7 billion. What can explain to us in this matter? Valuing the interior goes a long way through cross-border relations. What is the point of the situation for the period after 2020 of preparing the medium and long-term strategy for the implementation of Community funds in this cooperation with neighbouring Spain within the framework of the European Union's territorial cooperation programmes? Railway 2020 and ongoing investments in the North-South Corridor, the High Beira Line and the Lower Beira Line and the railway platforms are new opportunities for these territories. Employment alone fights the depopulation of these regions. The reopening of the Douro Line to Salamanca was important. Does the Minister accept the dialogue with the Government of Spain for the negotiation of this cross-border project? Finally, the symbolism and political strength of the creation of the State Secretariat of the Valorization of the Interior should go further. Where to find her? Some days ago, I put Mr. Prime Minister on the guard's hypothesis. Mr. Minister Pedro Siza Vieira, putting the State Secretary of the Valorization of the Interior inside could not be otherwise: very well! Thank you very much, Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u121	The floor is Mr. Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u122	Mr President, Mr Santinho Pacheco, investment support is an essential issue in the strategy we have defined, strategy that I think makes sense and that we should continue to pursue. The honourable Member spoke about the investment tax contracts that were approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers. We have two more to approve, with an additional EUR 50 million of investment in interior territories. What we have also done, and which is contained in the proposal for a State Budget that the Government has presented in this House, was precisely the increase in tax support in the context of investment tax contracts. This is a powerful tool in the decision to fix an investment within the country, as opposed to the fixation on the coast. We are convinced that we will be able, with an increased effort of external promotion in the context of domestic investment capture, to use these tools well to attract more investment in the interior of the country. The honourable Member has also spoken — and I think it is crucial — on the subject of cross-border cooperation. This theme is essential. I would like to tell the honourable Member and the House that if we in Portugal are concerned about desertification and demography in decline, this is much more severe in the Kingdom of Spain. In Spain, 53 % of the territory has a population density of less than 12, 5 inhabitants/ km2. If we think that, in Portugal, this happens only in a small fraction of the territory, precisely in the raian zone, we realize that we are facing another scale a problem that is very serious for the Kingdom of Spain. That is why, at the Iberian Summit in Valladolid next November, we are going to work towards proposing to the European Union an increase in investment in the lowest density regions, with programmes specifically aimed at low population density regions. The European Union has support for mountain areas, the European Union has support for remote areas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u123	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u124	... we also need specific support for areas of very low population density. A joint proposal by the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain, precisely identifying common problems that can be tackled through cross-border cooperation, is the next battle we have to fight together with our neighbouring country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u125	Mr. Santinho Pacheco wants to replicate?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u126	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u127	Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, Mr Minister, to address me, after what we have heard here, to the Bloc and the PCP. in the races to see who first announced the good news of the Budget, there was nothing there about the interior. It was there, in this negotiation, that they had to defend the interior,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u129	...it is not now, after the closed business, that comes here with demands. To talk about it, now it's just talk! But, Minister, the fourth and last opportunity of the Government to take the country's interior as a genuine national design has been lost. Symbolic measures and marginal effects, tricks—such as that of the Secretary of State—and changes in an internal recovery plan which has not been remedied and has repeatedly failed, may in fact make good newspaper titles but do not make the country more cohesion. In times of fat cows, the government had an obligation — a moral obligation — to invest ambitiously in the interior of the country. But what do we see in the three most important sectors for the development of these territories, forests, agriculture and tourism associated with them? We see a government which, in the forest, withdraws competitiveness, leaving it to abandon with the sad spectacle of the burned wood to rot because of the state. I ask you about this: what is the government doing today, on the ground, and not in the next Council of Ministers, with changes in organic laws, to solve this concrete problem? We have a government that ridicules ideas in tourism and goes through proposals that have already been made here, such as the replacement of the Douro Line to Spain, which the European Commission considers to be of immense potential. On this point, I ask you: is the government available to seriously study this structural cross-border project with European entities? Yes or no? We see a government that in agriculture for the fourth consecutive year directly attacks farmers, insisting on the additional tax on agricultural gas oil, which now adds new taxes on gas oil. On this point, I ask you: if there is money for everything, why is there no money to put an end to this tax sack on Portuguese farmers, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u130	The floor is Mr. Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u131	Mr President, Mr António Lima Costa, I confess that I am a little upset to see that the honourable Member qualifies the management of Community funds specifically aimed at the inside as a trick. I am disappointed that you call the Secretary of State for the Valorisation of the Interior a change.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u132	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u133	I am disappointed that Mr Deputies, in spite of everything, devalue what many companies and many authorities are doing within the country to present a different picture of what seems to be being built here. It is here that the image is being built that the interior of our territory is a disqualified zone, without dynamism, without economic initiative, without nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u134	Let's see! Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u135	The reality is not that, it is very different: there are poles of initiative, of entrepreneurship and of appreciation for the natural heritage that we should welcome and continue to support, without forgetting that, in fact, the problems remain very significant. The honourable Member spoke about the forest issue. Obviously, we must try to strengthen our ability to prevent and combat rural fires. The path that began last year following the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, constituted by the Assembly of the Republic following the fires of Pedrogão, is being scrupulously followed, bringing more knowledge to the fight against rural fire, specializing the forces that divide between protection of people and property and prevention and combat of rural fires, ensuring the connection between prevention and combat. It is a path that we must continue to do, also in order to strengthen structural prevention and the cleaning of forests. This is the only way we can effectively fight large forest fires. Mr. Deputy spoke of the burned wood. The Government has opened parks for the reception of the burnt wood with the fixing of the price to be paid. They have had little accession, it is true, because, at the wood level, we have a market that has many inefficiencies, and that is also what we have to work on.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u136	I ask you to conclude, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u137	We need to appreciate the reform of the forest, the measures we are taking, but I am sure of one thing: we need to move in the forest, move in this framework, so that the wood products market can work differently. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u138	Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u139	Mr President, Mr Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We have spoken here several times today — and very clearly — on tolls. It is, in fact, that they condition all economic activity, the safety and transport of people. I refer specifically to A23, a structural road to the interior, to the districts of Santarém, to Castelo Branco and the Guarda. And it's not enough, in fact, toll down. I have with me a text on a platform for the replacement of SCUTs in A23 and A25, which integrates such diverse entities as the Business Association of Beira Baixa, the Business Association of the Guard Region and the Union of Guard Unions, where it says that it only wants — and this « only» is with all the quotes we want to put — that A23 is exactly the same as what the IP3 is going to be, which will be turned into a cost-free highway for the user, a good decision of the Government that should also be followed in A23, according to the internal entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u140	What? Oh, my God! They're just bulldozers!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u141	But the case that I also wanted to talk about was the following: we cannot speak in the interior, in depopulation, in desertification, without looking at what is perhaps the most grueling situation of all this, which is the case of the Portalegre district. Who knows about Portalegre district is who lives there, and who lives there, the autarchs, the populations, the companies, the Deputies, all say that the construction of the Pisão dam was crucial. It is an idea that you are already 80 years old, Minister, when you were not yet talking about climate change. It is a dam that was already considered an essential infrastructure. Today, understandably, it's still more. however, this project has been successively postponed and now it is said that ministers will talk to each other and that, in October, you will know what is going on. Mr Minister, is this time that the Pisão dam, this essential infrastructure, considered by those who live in the Portalegre district, a desertification district, the most grueling case, is going to be built? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u142	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u143	Mr President, Mr Matias, we have already talked about a lot of tolls in this debate, and if you finish the internal tolls, it could indeed be a solution to all the problems of the interior, I think that we should take this seriously, but it does not seem to me that just by yourself, as you have said, the issue would be resolved by all of us. He spoke about the issue of Portalegre district and the Pisão dam. The Portalegre district obviously needs particular attention. The barrier of Pisão is a theme that is currently placed again on the table. I believe that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture have discussed the issue and will soon have to make a decision on it, particularly in the context of the national infrastructure plan, which is currently being discussed and which will be appreciated later in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u144	To reply, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u145	Mr. President, Minister, do you know what's going on? It is that the question of the Pisão dam is very critical and cannot be evaluated only by sector. It has to be seen in its global and has a very particular aspect: it is essential for the supply of water for human consumption, because the other dam serving the Portalegre district, which is the Dam of Póvoa and Meadas, is with serious security problems and can crash at any moment. It will certainly not be by chance, Minister, that I asked the Government three months ago what was the security of the Dam de Póvoa and Meadas and we have not yet received an answer, because the answer is probably the one that none of us would like to hear. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u146	You have the floor Mr. Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u147	Mr President, Mr Matias, the arguments he has given are precisely the topics that must now be appreciated in the discussion of the national infrastructure plan: the issue of water supply and the issue of irrigation in the area. Therefore, these are the issues that the Government must consider and then, since the national infrastructure plan will also be put to the discussion in this plenary, it will have to make decisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u148	You now have the floor to put questions to Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate Mr Minister and wish him good luck in the new functions. I would like to tell you, Mr Minister, that, when I speak from the inside and how I come from the inside, I do not like to make a speech of pass-words, very inflamed speeches, because I think that we all have solutions and measures to the inside, what is necessary is that we look at them with good sense and with good will, and not even like the speech of charity, because I think that the inside doesn't need charity, the interior needs respect. In the path of respect, I would like to tell you that, in the case of Pedrogão and in the case of the REVITA Fund, in a small community, in addition to suffering, the worst that can happen to those populations is a feeling of injustice, a feeling of looking aside and there is discomfort, because it seems that some had the right to something and that others did not have. The Minister could solve this in a very simple way: he could comply with Article 13. that of Decree-Law No 81 -A / 2017, which is related to control and supervision, it is up to the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ) to carry out an inspection. If he had fulfilled this function, with competence, he would resolve once and for all, in addition to the suffering of that population, the discomfort. But I would also like to tell you that I hope that there will finally be concrete policies on the inside that can solve problems. They don't solve everything, but at least something. I will not be so lame, because I think the interior also has some responsibility and also has to make its way, or make a praiseworthy speech about a support to a company like Coficab, which has been in the Guard for decades, resisting, overcoming the difficulties of the interior. I'm not going in there. I am going more on that path of former governors who, as rulers, have little done in the interior but now say that radical and courageous measures are needed for the interior. I hope Mr. Minister doesn't take that chance. It says « good, in the case of tolls, we are making the way». I do not know if that means that in the long run we will have the end of the toll as promised by the Prime Minister at least on the Beira Interior. That is, once again, there is a word given, there is no word honored. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Therefore, I do not support this, I support other concrete measures. The CDS presented here a set of measures to end the ISP ( Petroleum and Energy Products Tax ). The tolls are unfair. And the Minister says 'well, at least the carriage of goods has, as it was from the past, exemptions',... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ... but we made several proposals to end the ISP, which penalises everyone — penalises the worker, the student, the family father, the tourism itself, not the tourism that comes from outside but the internal tourism, penalises all economic activity and the Minister has to tell us whether there will be any measure for the ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u150	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u151	I shall finish, Mr President, with only one question. I look at the Environment Fund, Mr Minister, and there are clear options for this government, but it was a good sign for the inside. There is a ‘mass pipe’ in the Environmental Fund, but according to the Budget for 2019,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u152	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u153	...it is all to the metro of Lisbon, to the Soflusa, to the Transtejo and to the metro of the Port. If that is not to forget the interior, tell me what it is to forget the interior, Minister. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Álvaro Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u154	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u155	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, once again raised the issue of the REVITA Fund and said that I could solve the problem of the REVITA Fund. Actually, I couldn't, I don't have executive responsibilities about it. But neither do I repeat, nor do I want to spread an answer. I would like to tell you that, in fact, the government takes very seriously the allegations that have been raised. The Government is closely monitoring the analysis that the technical committee has made and awaits the re-evaluation that the municipal chambers will make to the cases that have been identified by the REVITA Fund as meriting better attention. So I'm not going to spread that theme. The second note concerns the resources of the Environmental Fund. This Fund is an important tool precisely in the country's decarbonisation strategy. in this strategy, what we aim is to reach 2050 being neutral in terms of carbon dioxide emissions. This requires a great deal of effort in the transformation of our economy and our landscape. It is not possible to achieve a neutral result in terms of emissions if we do not make a great investment in collective transport. It is not possible to reduce the emissions that Portugal has every year, which are about 68 Mt of CO2, it is not possible to counter this without reducing the use of private vehicles, without strengthening cleaner vehicles and railways. Therefore, it makes every sense that the Environmental Fund invests in it, but it is also important that we maintain and treat our forest better. The Portuguese forest has the capacity to absorb about 8 Mt of CO2 every year, except in the years in which it burns. in the years in which it burns, the forest is liquid emitter of CO2. That's why the Environmental Fund, for the first time in our history, will begin, from next year, to support the income of forest producers who want to dedicate themselves to...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u157	... to species of slow growth. We will move forward with pilot projects in some regions, in conjunction precisely with the support of the PDR2020 ( Rural Development Programme), which will support investment and conversion, and then the Environmental Fund will make long-term support. This multifund strategy is unprecedented, it is very important and would not be possible without the Environmental Fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u158	To put your questions, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u159	Mr President, Minister, I would like to go back to questions about public services because they are of enormous relevance to the populations of the interior region and so that the State does not effectively abandon the populations in these regions. We have heard here from Mr Minister the intention of locating new services distributed by the country, but we have not heard from the government about the need to reopen services that have been closed, and we are talking about the area of education, health centres, health extensions. It is true that there is a great added value in that they are close, that they are where the people are, so that the rights these populations have are in fact guaranteed and that there is no discrimination on the basis of the region in which we live. The Minister also made a reference to the TTCs, and what is on the table today, beyond a set of TTC stations have closed, as in Seia, is the planned closure of others, which does not benefit the people, particularly the people of those regions. In Belmonte, in Manteigas, in Furnos de Algodres, in Vila Velha de Rodão, in Mora, we are actually talking about several stations of CTT at the headquarters where, if they are not in operation, these populations will again be penalized. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u160	Mr. Minister said that it was the result of privatization. It's true! That's right! But it is also in the Government's hands that it can reverse the same privatisation and really ensure the people's postal service to which they are entitled. Finally, Mr Minister, there is no regional development, there is no effective fight against regional asymmetries if the administrative regions are not created. This is also an essential aspect, either with regard to the administrative organisation of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u161	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u162	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this is an essential aspect, either with regard to the administrative organization of the State, giving more coherence to the State itself, or with regard to putting at each of the levels of power what should be placed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u163	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u164	... ensuring, in fact, that same proximity to the populations. To finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u165	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u166	... an aspect which is fundamental and to which this government does not answer either: the replacement of the parish. It is that if the populations see a set of closed services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u167	Mrs Paula Santos, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u168	...replacement of the parish is fundamental. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologize for the excessive time. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u169	You're sorry, Your Honor. In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u170	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, on the reopening of services, we have already reopened courts that were closed. We started serving that. It is important, in the matter of coverage of public services, that we find, as I said recently, ways to serve populations that are scattered. Sometimes it is not even possible to keep public services working to serve scarce populations. What we have to do is find ways to reach the populations, with the citizen's mobile spaces, with the home medical care. On administrative regions, for the time being, we have a decentralization package for municipalities. Let us concentrate on this and then discuss the following steps. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u171	That's not regionalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u172	The replacement of frequencies is subject to the competence of the Assembly of the Republic and therefore the Assembly of the Republic will certainly have the capacity to decide on it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u173	To put your questions, Mr Norberto Patinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u174	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, some previous interventions brought to my mind how much my region, the Alentejo, was penalized by the policies pursued during the four years and means of right-wing governance. [[That's the truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u175	The closure of the courts, the emptying of public services, the extinction of freezers, the de-investment in the SNS and in the public school, the disastrous privatization of the CTTs, associated with an architecture of the Community framework, based on the narrative that there was no longer any need for more investment on the roads, the serious forgetfulness of fundamental allocations to the territory, such as for example for the expansion of the Alqueva regadion, the central hospital or requalification of the school park, contributed to accentuating the asymmetries and creating difficulties added to the realization of fundamental investments for the cohesion of the territory and for combating desertification, facilitating the exodus of our young people, who were, in fact, invited to seek the future outside the country — will remember, with certainty! [[PSD protests.]] Mr Minister, I would like to point out two examples of this government's action that have had positive results and that they are crucially helping to reverse the situation by helping to fix people and ensure a new vitality and sustainable prosperity in my region. I am referring to the betting on the expansion of the Alqueva regadio and tourism: the first, because it has contributed decisively to a competitive and rising agriculture, which is decisive for combating desertification, because it stimulates the establishment of young people; the second, by implementing programmes that, by giving shape to the guidelines of the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion (PNCT), have given obvious consequences for the tourist and economic revitalization of the interior areas, with very positive and measurable results that are proof that it is possible to build a more coherent, more competitive and more sustainable interior. I ask you, Minister, whether these examples will be an incentive to continue and deepen the Inland Development Programme ( PVI ), strengthening support for tourism and giving special attention to the interior of the country in the reconstruction of Portugal 2020 and the construction of Portugal 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u176	Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u177	Mr President, Mr Norberto Patinho, obviously the answer to your question is 'yes'. On the one hand, I stress that the plan for the expansion of irrigation is under way and there are already resources available for this purpose — a state financing amounting to EUR 500 million — because it is essential for us to save water and make better use of our agricultural potential. On the other hand, tourism is one of the most important stakes in the appreciation of the interior and therefore has deserved significant support not only at the level of Portugal 2020 funds, with which we have already supported 64 projects only in the Alentejo region, but also at the level of the Valuarisation Programme. I must stress that this programme is financed from national resources and will be strengthened by more than EUR 30 million, which is also important, because it is a form of dynamisation and exploitation of the landscape resource that the interior has, being particularly well placed in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u178	Mr Álvaro Batista of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u179	Mr. President, Deputy Minister and Economics, during the election campaign, PS candidates in the White Castle district made several promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u180	And the PSD, didn't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u181	They promised to resume the hydro-agricultural use of Alvito, they promised to do the IC6 and the IC31, but so far nothing! The IC6, between Coimbra and Covilhã, and the IC31, which will connect Castelo Branco to Termas de Monfortinho, in a motorway profile, are two essential ways for the entire central region and this promise, more than given, was written by António Costa in the electoral manifesto of the Socialist Party. Minister, when will you fulfill what you promised? [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] They also promised, and I quote, « the assessment(...) of the toll scheme(...) in the Motorway of the Interior Bank, operating its exemption(...) ». Minister, will you or will you not keep the word? The end of the toll is in the PS electoral manifesto, but it is also the speech of all the parties of management. Mrs. Members of the PS, the PCP and the Block, because this is the last Budget of the Legislation, is now or never. Everyone promised to end the tolls inside, they have the last chance to fulfill it here.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u182	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u183	The people in the interior need to know if the promises on the left are to be worth or only "for Portuguese to see". Mrs. Members of the PS, the PCP and the Block will even have the discharge to approve the Budget without including the elimination of the tolls and the other promises they have made inside? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u185	Those who approve the Budget are not the government, they are the Members of the parties who support it. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The next Budget is the last of the Legislature, so it is time for the left to stop shootings and do what they promised. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister and Mr. PS, PCP and Block Members, do you have a word or don't you have a word? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u186	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u187	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, on the IC6 and the IC31, this government is running the infrastructure projects that were left by the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u188	It's in the electoral memorandum!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u189	... which, in addition to that, did not even have appropriate funds in the current Community framework. Now, the Assembly of the Republic will have the opportunity to debate and appreciate the infrastructure investment plan, which will be appreciated here. As for the assessment of the toll scheme, Mr President, I have already exhausted my ability to argue on the subject. At the honourable Member's question as to whether the promises are to be fulfilled, I reply that the promises we made were for the reinstatement of family income, job creation and convergence with Europe...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u190	You didn't do the housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u191	...and, therefore, to that end, this Government may be pleased to say that it has fulfilled its promises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u192	To reply, Mr. Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u193	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Members of the left, what I said is written in the electoral memorandum of the Socialist Party, presented in the district of Castelo Branco. They were the promises of the Socialist Party, they were the promises the left ones made to the Portuguese! You've got to do it! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Minister, I live inside and can tell you that people are full of promises and want to see concrete things. What the Minister here said was: « We will not keep our word». The Socialist Party and the left parties will do all the pantomimes, but they will not fulfill what they promised. [[PSD applause.]] You owe them what they promised people, or then you should apologize to them. Mr. Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I live inside. Proença-a-Nova, the land of Mr. Secretary of State of the Valorization of the Interior, has 377 elderly for every 100 young people and is a socialist municipality, as are socialist municipalities Idanha-a-Nova, Penamacor, Vila Velha de Rhodão, which have more than 400 elderly for every 100 young people. Are you better with this government? No, they're worse! There are older people, there are fewer young people, there are fewer jobs and there is less income. [[PS protests.]] This is the result of the three years of left-wing politics,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u195	...this is what PS, PCP and Block have to offer to the inside. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u196	Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u197	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, I do not know this document and would be interested in evaluating it. What I remember to have been presented in the Government Programme, and to have been carried out, was an evaluation of the internal tolls, which led to its decrease. That is what is assured and that is what has been done since 2016, now with a reinforcement in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u199	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u200	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u201	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u202	Mr President, as Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs apparently do not know the memorandum of the Socialist Party, presented in the district of Castelo Branco, asked the Bureau to proceed with its distribution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u203	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies. To put questions, Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Under-Secretary of State, Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs, and if we were now talking about the interior in particular, the Real Country and the Government's action, or the lack of it? First of all, since both the Left Parliamentary and the Minister always refer to the closure of the courts by the previous Government, I would like to remind you, with regard to the closure of public services in the country, that the last Government of the Socialist Party has closed 10 maternity — most of them in the interior — 64 permanent health care services, 3448 schools, and asked for the closure of 800 km of railway. This is the socialist heritage of the interior!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u205	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u206	And, Mr Minister, if you do not mind the situation in the interior, I would like to ask you if you are not the one who is most disturbed by the measures relating to higher education, since — as the newspapers of yesterday reported — it was the most students who lost, this school year, with the cut of 5% in the vacancies of the major universities. Does it not bother you, Minister, that during this government there has been no kind of proximity investment and the proximity plan has been cancelled, which was ongoing between 2014 and 2019? I remember that in Viseu there were 28 million euros to invest. Mr Minister, does it not bother you that the work of extending the urgency of the Viseu hospital has not yet been initiated, which has a reference of more than 500 000 users? Isn't it uncomfortable that the works of the Oncological Center of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center have not yet been started? Mr Minister, since he talks so much about the railway, is it not disturbing that there are still no projects for the Beira Alta Line — most of which goes through the Viseu district — even though the previous government has left more than 300 million euros in Community funds?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u207	There are works going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u208	Does it not bother you, Minister, that you have abandoned the construction of the Way of the Dukes — which would have no cost to the taxpayers — without any explanation to the Portuguese, so that, in a hurry, if you come up with a solution that is not a motorway nor will it be completed in these four years? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u209	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u210	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Alves, mentioned the subject of applications for higher education and I must tell you that the government's bet is definitely in valuing higher education institutions within the country. That is why we increased the vacancies inside and reduced the vacancies in Lisbon and Porto, because if this measure had not been taken, we do not know what would have happened. Even so, I would like to say to you that the appreciation of higher education institutions is not only at the level of vacancies, it is at the level of support for research and the creation of scientific employment around these institutions and also at the level of strengthening of higher vocational courses, short-term courses which are offered, above all, by the polytechnics of the interior, through which, this year, 12 000 students have entered higher education. These measures are absolutely necessary in order to bring the capacity and qualification of human resources from within, adapting them to the needs of the investment we want to attract to these regions. As for the High Beira Line, its requalification and modernization will advance...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u211	It's working!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u212	...and it's already in work. I would also like to point out that, if I understood correctly, you have devalued the modernisation of the IP3, which is now moving forward. This investment was absolutely crucial not only for the populations served by this route but also for all those on that road, being absolutely indispensable for improving accessibility to the region and reducing road sinisterness. This, yes, was an investment that was interrupted and finally was able to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u213	The Low Coast Line had no design!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u214	You have the floor to reply, Mr Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u215	Mr President, Deputy Minister and Economics, it is not because it often repeats something that is not true that it becomes true. Mr President, there is more investment in higher education, but I suggest that you ask higher education institutions why there is chronic subordination. For example, ask the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu why it takes more than EUR 1 million to meet its obligations. In this case, in particular, the government makes this subordination. As for IP3, Mr Minister, once again, he is wrong. There is no project, not even the project for requalification. It's a great requalification, it's not about building a new highway!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u216	The firm is in progress!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u217	Mr Minister, we do not, under any circumstances, need the complacency of the Government. We live inside, because we like to live there. What we need and what we demand is respect and equal treatment! We demand that they give us what we are entitled to! We will not stay away from our demands, because, as far as Mr. Minister does not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u218	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u219	...for as long as the government doesn't want to, we don't leave the interior and no one takes us from there. That is why Mr Minister, also does not count on our complacency, especially with our claim, with the demand of those who live there and of the PSD Members. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u220	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u221	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Alves, I have no sympathy for the inside — I have no sympathy! — on the contrary, I have the deep conviction that the theme of valuing the interior territories, the use of all the potential of our country, the ability to serve the populations with quality, in a differentiated way, regardless of the point of the national territory in which they are located, is the great task that awaits us in the coming days. I do not live within the country, but I take a political responsibility to work to achieve a strategy that helps correct the inequalities that have occurred in recent years. Not out of complacency, I repeat, not out of pity, but out of deep respect for the people of the interior and, above all, because I know that a movement of decades of abandonment and desertification needs consistent investment, needs a consistent strategic orientation over time. It is up to me, in the short period in which I can exercise government functions, work in this direction and leave things a little better for the future. I would also like to tell you that, in this respect, the issue of inland accessibility and, above all, of small links in the productive areas to major road or rail routes is an essential issue. That is why we have now launched the programs for linking areas of business location to infrastructure networks. We did it now in Arouca, we launched it also in Leather Walls, is a move to continue. It was three years when we had to do projects...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u222	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u223	...and find resources that were not provided for in the investment plan that came from the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u224	You now have the floor to put your questions, Mrs Hortense Martins, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u225	Mr President, Deputy Minister and Economics, first of all, I welcome the Government and the Minister for the announcement here made of locating the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior in Castelo Branco, a region of the interior. Thank you very much, Minister, the people thank you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would, in fact, like to return here to the Socialist Party's manifesto for the White Castle district and say that, unfortunately, we do not know the PSD manifesto and Mr Álvaro Batista never introduce it. And you know what the reason is? It's just that the measurements are zero for the inside. Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to point out that in this manifesto itself it is said that in four years of governance of the PSD / CDS, the White Castle district has reached an unprecedented economic and social backwardness, has lost more than 10 000 inhabitants — more than twice the national average — the birth has decreased 19 %, more than 3,500 jobs have been destroyed. It is against this and to recover from this situation that we have to fight! I conclude by saying that we have to be serious, Mr Álvaro Batista, and you have to read what is here, which I will stress, since you have not done so: « The evaluation and review of the toll regime imposed by the PSD on the Highway of the Internal Bank, operating a substantial reduction or considering its exemption ». [[You have to learn to read!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u226	And what did the honourable Member do there to promise? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u227	This was the commitment of the Socialist Party, also assumed by Antonio Costa, candidate for Prime Minister and today, fortunately, in the governance of our country. This is the compromise we are fulfilling and the path we will continue to implement! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u228	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u229	Mr President, Mrs Hortense Martins, I truly believe that the creation of a post of Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior and the location of its office in the interior of the country in Castelo Branco is more than a symbolic gesture. I hope that you will bear witness to a commitment by this government to the location of public services inside. All decisions on the installation of public services that this Government has so far taken have been aimed at localizing within the country: the Collaborative Laboratories that value endogenous resources, the headquarters of the Agency for Integrated Management of Rural Fires, the forestry public enterprise and, now, the office of the State Secretariat. It is little — they may say — but it has been done for a long time, and it is, above all, the meaning which is translated into the commitment of the Interior Valuation Programme, that the opening up of new public services, from now on, should be done preferably for and within the country, except for weighty reasons in which it is intended to serve a very specific population. Therefore, I think that all these notions, these ideas, these decisions, are the strengthening of a sense of rebalancing the occupation of our territory. On the district manifesto of the Socialist Party in Castelo Branco, the honourable Member has already read the text, which I did not know before, and, in fact, what I can say is the following: the Government has committed itself in its Programme to the substantial reduction of tolls on these roads and that is what it has been running. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u230	To put your questions, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u231	Mr President, Mr Deputy Minister and Economics, all Portuguese, even those who live and live on the coast, understand the challenges that lie ahead of the interior and thus make it a national priority. We know that the challenge is enormous, so that the Government and the Socialist Party do not present themselves in this empty-handed debate. Mission Unit, Interior Valuation Programme, an unpublished and welcomed State Secretariat, differentiated taxation, a program of strategic investment capture, more employment, more qualified employment, specific green way in PT2020, more vacancies in higher education institutions, Collaborative Laboratories, bet on tourism, thermalism, geological resources and rail. Mr Lima Costa was this government that extended the electrification of the Douro Line from Marco de Canaveses to the Weight of the Rule, because you left nothing there. Zero! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u232	Mr Minister, the governments are not, and they were not, all the same. The time and memory of the Portuguese will record those who do not conform, who do not allow themselves to be overcome by resignation and inertia, who invest and wager, who have vision, who assume the interior as part of a territory which has the right to equal opportunities and which is no less than the rest of the country. In contrast, and it is impossible to forget, the recent past brings to mind the action of a right-wing government, which has assumed this part of the territory as a burden, indispensable and disposable, which has withdrawn, which has closed, which has disinvested, which has consecrated the interior as the lunar side of its policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u234	... condensed into a kind of practical guide for its liquidation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the benches on the right once again tried to atone for their sins with « crocodile tears», mixed with a good dose of amnesia and weight in consciousness. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u235	So, Minister, I ask: for this convergence to be achieved, does it consider the commitment in the Collaborative Laboratories and the increase in vacancies in higher education crucial aspects of this strategy? Is the convergence of this part of the territory with the national average really a strategic objective? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u236	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u237	Mr. President, Mr. Francisco Rocha, the bet on higher education is a bet on the whole country. To ensure the consistency of our economic growth process requires the qualification of our human resources and also requires that knowledge production, which takes place at universities, can be brought to companies, thus improving their productivity and competitiveness. If this is part of the economic strategy of the Government for the whole country, it is particularly crucial for higher education institutions in the interior. It is important to provide these institutions with more conditions, particularly in political education. Political education distinguishes itself by its proximity to the economic fabric of the regions in which it is inserted, by its ability to value endogenous resources and find new ways to ensure, with them, products or services more competitive. That is why we have tried to strengthen the number of vacancies in higher education in the interior, which is why we have increased the offer of higher vocational courses in the interior territories, and that is why our collaborative laboratories strategy in the interior, the key part of the INTERFACE Programme to bring knowledge to higher education and research institutions for companies, is decisive. We have already had good experiences from the past: in Castelo Branco, in Guarda, in Bragança, there has been a lot of research that values the endogenous products of the region and helps to put them on national and international circuits for the marketing of agri-food products. We need to strengthen this bet and therefore open the Collaborative Mountain Agriculture Laboratory in Bragança.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u238	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude. There are more Members registered to ask you questions and then there is no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u239	Mr President, thank you very much for your warning. As I said, we opened the Collaborative Mountain Agriculture Laboratory in Bragança, which is a decisive bet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u240	To put your questions, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u241	Mr President, Deputy Minister and Economics, the result of decades of abandonment and de-investment, Portugal is today an unbalanced country between two different realities, between the coast and the interior. The inequality of opportunities is, in fact, quite large among those born in low population density territories and those born in large urban centers. We do not comply with this reality. We understand that no one can stay behind and that it is not fair that someone who is born in the Guard, Bragança or Beja, and who chooses to stay on his land, is today condemned to a life with fewer opportunities. The guarantee of territorial cohesion is also a fundamental factor for our territorial sustainability. That is why this is a cause of all and not only those who live inside. It is a cause of all Portuguese and is a decisive pillar for our future as a country. in this matter, as in others on the right, the Portuguese no longer expect anything new. We have, in fact, been aware today that the PSD, and has said so many times, is tired of discussing this matter, that it is not worth doing anything else on this matter. Now, as far as this is concerned, nothing new. The right and the former Government, by incompetence or lack of will, failed in several essential functions of the State. He failed to protect the most vulnerable Portuguese, particularly the younger Portuguese. With its famous doctrine, which prevailed for four years, that those who are not well should leave their comfort zone, it made several young people living in the interior of the country not have a glimpse of hope for their future, making several young people living in the interior of the country forced to leave their lands, both for the large urban areas of our country and for emigration. This has been for almost four years in a lost generation in the low-density territories of our country. Now, we know that this government has a different view and this vision also manifests itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u242	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u243	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, this government has a different view and this vision also manifests itself in the creation of the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, whose initiative I greet. What I would like to ask, Minister, is whether young Portuguese people can continue to count on the commitment of this government so that those who are born inside and who choose to continue their lives inside can have a real life, as they deserve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u244	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u245	... in their territories of origin, inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u246	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u247	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, it is absolutely essential that we be able to give good opportunities to young people born in the country. It is important to find ways to fix families inside. That is why in addition to the wager in education, with the maintenance of 400 open classes with less than 21 students, which we have already done so far, and we will continue to ensure the functioning of these schools, we are strengthening the wager in higher education. We are also strengthening the bet on the setting of higher education students. The proposal for a State Budget Act provides that the families of students who are to study inside, displaced, may deduct up to €1000 from the collection of IRS, for the expenses of fixing their descendants in the interior territories and in the higher education institutions in the interior. That is why we provide for a tax benefit to support renting for families moving inside. Finally, that is why we are also concerned about strengthening investment support, because young people will be the recipients of these job offers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u248	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u249	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs, the policy is made of choices and the Socialist Party and the Government have also made their choice in relation to the interior. They chose to ensure more external convergence and internal cohesion in the next decade. They have chosen to invest more than EUR 1700 million inside. Above all, they chose to attract companies, attract students, attract public officials, create vacancies for doctors — 150 vacancies have been filled inside — to create measures and, above all, to implement these measures with obvious answers, through the opening of more than 215 citizen spaces and the reopening of 20 courts. Our choices have been, throughout these three years of governance, improving the lives of families and Portuguese, and we have succeeded. It is a consequent political action. Our choices were to promote employment growth and create 300 000 new jobs. It's not a word, it's a consequent political action. We also choose to attract companies and fix people inside, and this is increasingly evidence of the policies being transferred. PSD and CDS made their choices. They chose to close and disinvest in public services, they chose to create a minimal existentialist state — we chose to strengthen the social state — they chose unemployment and they chose to suffocate families. Political choices are, in fact, evident between the right and the left. We choose to serve Portugal and serve Portuguese. With the time I still have, Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u250	There's no time left for you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u251	... question how important, in addition to birth, is the demographic challenge in the interior, the strategic look for migration in the interior, the refugee integration programme and the attraction of students in higher education from refugee-producing countries, as well as housing mobility, with the Key Programme in the Hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u252	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u253	I would ask for your tolerance, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u254	It doesn't take so much to be tolerant.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u255	There are many and many good measures that are in this State Budget, which the PSD and the CDS have already said will fall. Again, the appreciation of the interior will lead to the growth of our economy and the well-being of the Portuguese. The choice of PSD and CDS remains to deny the well-being of Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u256	In reply, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u257	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, the subject of demography is very important, not only with regard to birth but also with regard to migration, as well as point out. The country needs people, the country needs people now! We need, in several regions of the country and in several sectors of activity, to strengthen the number of people who are available to work. This is also particularly meaningful in the interior. That is why, in addition to tax support for the establishment of residence in the interior, we also have the Key Programme in the Hand. Often, the possibility of relocation in the interior to respond to a job offer is faced with the commitments that families have in the places where they are residents and this program also aims at this. We must continue to work towards attracting immigrants and supporting the return of our migrants so that the demographic problems of the country can also be compensated by the migration balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u258	We have thus reached the end of the debate with the Deputy Minister and the Economics on interiority. of the second item of the agenda is Draft Law No 830 / XIII / 3. a ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ) — Legal arrangements of the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and of the third point are set out in Resolution No 72 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Protocol to the Convention for the Suppression of Illicit Capture of Aircraft adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010 which have not allocated time for discussion. Before we move on to the voting period, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to give an account of a legislative initiative which, in the meantime, has entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u259	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted, Bill No. 152 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to lay down the rules to which the XVI General Population Review and the VI General Housing Review ( Census 2021 ) should comply with, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, in order to be heard. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 203 presences, to which are added 3 — those of the Members. Mr Santinho Pacheco, PS, Isabel Galriza Neto, CDS-PP, and Sérgio Azevedo, PSD, performing 206 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin by voting vote No 637 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of Manuel Ferreira Jerónimo, who will be read by Ms Sandra Pontedeira. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u261	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Manuel Ferreira Jerónimo was born in Lisbon on November 4, 1929. at the age of 13 he began working in a sawmill. at the age of 15 the father took him to the Pica dos Navios, where he passed the apprentice, then the worker and finally the worker head of the shipbuilding, having developed a long professional life in Lisnave. Early he gave himself up to the cause of the workers, including facing the shock police of the New State in the hard labor struggles in the late 60s of the 20th century. In 1969, he was a member of the Lisnave Workers Committee. Persecuted by PIDE / DGS, it was highlighted as a figure of the Portuguese workers' movement and intransigent anti-fascist militant. First-hour socialist militant, friend and collaborator close to Mário Soares, performed several functions in the Socialist Party after 25 April 1974. Founder of the UGT in 1978, it has always been linked to the action and history of this union center, having for several years coordinated the department of the elderly of the UGT, at national and international level. In 1986, he was founder of the Democratic Movement of Reformers and Pensioners, and subsequently founded in 1989 the National Association of Pensioners Pensioners and Reformers, an IPSS that defends the most disadvantaged, of which he was president of the board. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the VII legislature, where his activity was mainly marked by defending the rights of Portuguese pensioners and pensioners. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of former Mr. Manuel Ferreira Jerónimo, addressing his family, the Socialist Party and the UGT the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u262	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall then vote on vote No 638 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD member ) — Greeting in memory of the crew of the NRP Augusto de Castilho and his Commander Carvalho Araújo, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u263	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It passed on 14 October of this year the centenary of the death of José Botelho de Carvalho Araújo ( 1881 - 1918 ). Carvalho Araújo, Navy officer, commander of the NRP Augusto de Castilho (the former fishing trawl Elite, required by the Portuguese Navy in June 1916 and adapted to mine-hunting), entered the homeland history when facing the German submarine U-139, which patrolled that area of the Atlantic with the mission of sinking all and any hostile ship. The mission entrusted to Carvalho Araújo was to escort the package San Miguel, which sailed between Funchal and Ponta Delgada with more than 200 people aboard. in the imminent attack of the submarine to the package, Carvalho Araújo intercepted the mine-hunt and, although with much less fire power than the enemy, managed to give time for the package to escape illustrious. Carvalho Araújo died in military action, along with five more crew members of the Augusto de Castillo, but it was his supreme sacrifice that allowed the passengers of San Miguel to arrive at Ponta Delgada sãos and saved. Carvalho Araújo is surely one of the most consensual heroes of our 20th century, because his act is heroic and somehow victorious and because he achieved his goal that, in a way, repaired Portugal's trauma of La Lys, which happened a few months earlier. The confirmation of this consensus is that, over the last 100 years, tributes to Carvalho Araújo have been promoted several times and with various pretexts, particularly in Lisbon, Porto, Vila Real and Ponta Delgada. No less conclusive evidence is that of 45 localities, of 34 Portuguese municipalities, have consecrated the mariner's name to their toponyms. Besides the career in the Navy, Carvalho Araújo distinguished himself in civic and political action. The reference republican was elected by two deputies (the 1911 Constituent National Assembly and later the Congress of the Portuguese Republic ), actively and proficiently participating in parliamentary debates and work. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the memory of José Botelho de Carvalho Araújo and the sailors of the NRP Augusto de Castilho, by the high example of military value, self-denial and sacrifice provided to the homeland. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is the vote No 639 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — From solidarity to populations affected by the Leslie storm, which will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u265	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Saturday, October 13, several areas of the country witnessed one of the most devastating climate events of the last decades, with enormous material, heritage and personal effects. The storm Leslie, in addition to causing serious damage in thousands of homes, equipment, services and public infrastructures indispensable to the normal well-being and comfort of communities, destroyed collective and private goods, houses and agricultural and industrial units. in the Coimbra region, in particular, some of the most scourged areas were exactly the ones hit, now precisely one year ago, by the terrible fires of October 2017. The damage caused by the storm Leslie dramatically weakened already severely weakened family and business economies, jeopardizing a decent way of life for some families and the possibility of economic survival of business units. in this framework, it is generally possible to record the solidarity and prompt response by local stakeholders — municipalities, public and private institutions, companies, private associations and social organisations — in particular in the affected areas, such as registering and praising the multiple acts of personal and community assistance, generous and uninterested, which indelibly mark the solidarity nature of the communities. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, emphasizes the response of local authorities and affirms its solidarity with all populations affected by the Leslie storm. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u266	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 1851 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Paris. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we will vote on draft resolution No 1865 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, from 19 October to 10 December 2018. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote on the draft resolution No 21 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the work of parliamentary committees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall immediately vote on the application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 60-day period of the Bill No 999 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Change the Penal Code preventing excessive confinement of pet animals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1006 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1825 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government immediately adopt all the procedures and measures necessary for the construction, as soon as possible, of the new facilities of the Paediatric Center of the University Hospital Center in São João, Porto. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[PSD protests.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1702 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government unlock the construction of the new pediatric wing of the hospital of São João ( Porto ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. [[PSD protests.]] We are voting, so I ask the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are not involved in any further steps. We will then vote in general on Bill No. 873 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Amends Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 913 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amends Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1012 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Amends the Family Care Implementation Scheme by strengthening family reception, promoting an effective policy of deinstitutionalisation of children and young people. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The bill we just voted down to 10. the Commission. We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1018 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Care Implementation Scheme in order to create new rights in host families. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall vote immediately, in general, the Bill No. 940 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Ends with the possibility of suspending the retirement condition of judicial judges for the exercise of the functions of arbitrator in tax matters ( fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Tax Arbitration ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and against the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We move on to the general vote of Bill No. 941 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Ends with the possibility of recourse to arbitration by the State and public legal persons. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall now vote, in general, the Bill No. 934 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 997 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthening the autonomy of hospital entities integrated in the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 998 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 974 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — regulates the legal regime and the statutes applicable to health units of the National Health Service integrated into the administrative public sector by repealing Decrees-Laws No 18 / 2017 of 10 February and No 284/99 of 26 July. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1015 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Autonomy for hiring professionals by hospitals, hospitals and local health units integrated in the National Health Service. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 1016 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Law of Commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u268	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u269	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u270	Be registered. We will now vote on draft resolution No 1771 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — by the end of the Fertagus concession and the integration of the Lisbon / Setúbal rail service into the CP. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1000 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Consecrates training schemes for drivers in an equal framework of criteria and with the same application in terms of requirement ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We will now vote in general on Bill No. 1001 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns competence to municipal chambers for the licensing of passenger cars with a view to individual passenger transport activity on decharacterised vehicles from electronic platforms ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1002 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — The definition of prices and tariffs with clarity, transparency and stability and establishes an approved tariff that prevents price fluctuations, preventing the sale with injury ( first amendment to Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 994 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revoking Law No 45 / 2018 of 1 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 1014 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Revocation of Law No 45 / 2018 of 10 August ( Legal regime of individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 830 / XIII / 3. a ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ) — Legal regime of the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 72 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Suppression of Illicit Capture of Aircraft adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1814 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a programme to support the start-up of the post-fire natural regeneration eucalyptus. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u272	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u273	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote on this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u274	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u275	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u276	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u277	Mr President, also to inform the Bureau that the CDS will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 1814 / XIII / 4. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u278	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1838 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a plan to control the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and an action plan for the surveillance and control of alien invasive species. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u280	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u281	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u282	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u283	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u284	I'm guessing it's for the same purpose. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u285	Mr President, it is indeed for the same purpose to inform the Bureau that the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2018-10-19.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote on draft resolution No 1453 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures at national and European Union level to reduce the presence of cadmium in agricultural fertilizers for environmental and public health reasons. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1823 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — by the end of the demolition of dwellings on the barrier islands of Ria Formosa. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the NAP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1780 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to oblige Ryanair and its recruitment agencies, Crewlink and Workforce International, to apply Portuguese legislation to labour relations with its workers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the Proposal for a Law No 132 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the new Industrial Property Code, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2015 / 2436 and ( EU ) 2016 / 943. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We have thus reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 24 October, at 3 p.m. of the first point is the general discussion of the Bill No 118 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create and regulate the issue and use of the identity card of diplomatic and consular agents. of the second point is the general debate of the Bill No 133 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of young associivism. The third point follows the general assessment of the Bill No 140 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Authorises the Government to establish the sanctioning regime applicable to the exercise of commercial maritime fishing activity. of the fourth point is the general debate of the Proposal for a Law No 142 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the legal regime for the collection, processing, analysis, availability and use, storage and destruction of cells and tissues of human origin for scientific research purposes, including stem cells. at the fifth point, Parliamentary Survey No 7 / XIII / 4 shall be discussed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tankos. Finally, at the sixth point, together will be discussed, in general, the Bill No. 984 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Ensure non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under 6 years of age and Resolution Projects Nos 880/ XIII/2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct studies and awareness-raising actions on the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit and consumption of methylphenidate and atomoxetine by children and young people, 881 / XIII / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures at the level of the diagnosis of hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit (PHDA) and the prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine in children and young people, 882 / XIII / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote an extended debate and sensitize health professionals to the use of various PHDA diagnostic tests and 832 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Prevention of excessive consumption of central nervous system stimulants ( Ritaline and Strattera ) to treat hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit. We are thus at the end of our session. I wish everyone a good weekend and a good job. See you next Wednesday. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
